ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 89 MPs present in the hall, so we have a quorum, we have conditions for continuing the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer the issue to Serbian State President Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. What will they and the state of Serbia do after yesterday's shameful, scandalous and Draconian verdicts by the anti-Serbian UN tribunal, which is a continuity in the Satanization of the entire Serbian people and the attempt to impose on this verdict the guilt and responsibility for all events in Republika Srpska, our most tormented people, and to actually replace the the thesis that those who killed, slaughtered and persecuted the Serb enemy, women, children, civilians, are at large, and that the presidents of the Serbian people and Radovan Karadzic as the first elected president of Republika Srpska have been given life imprisonment because of the fact that they have installed the political process in The Hague tribunal, in fact, carried out NATO and Western forces, which have been solely in the function of Serbs since the beginning? I will remind you, as well as Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic and Nela Kuburovic, that so far in The Hague, Serbs have been sentenced to over a thousand years in prison, and Radovan Karadzic, the so-called judges yesterday at 11 points in the second-degree procedure, since absolutely no evidence could be found in this procedure, as well as in the first-degree, that he did, advocated any crime at any time and anywhere, tried to impose guilt. One of those counts is that he is also guilty of the so-called genocide in Srebrenica. There was no genocide in Srebrenica, and that's what history will prove. We prove it, and the entire Serbian people are in both Republika Srpska and Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, bitter with this verdict by the Hague villains. The state of Serbia must react immediately, as does the president of the state, and the prime minister and minister of justice because we cannot leave behind the legacy of future generations. This is something we have to talk about everywhere and in every place, and we will do it in the future, that the freedom of the Serbian people in Republika Srpska is intact. It was created west of the Drina state in the blood of a young man who died for the freedom of the Serb people, and Radovan Karadzic and the leadership of Republika Srpska did their best to give the Serb people their freedom. I repeat again, all of what it says in these 11 points of this quasi verdict, in fact, the judgments written by the Western powers that are only these so-called wretches. Judges at The Hague tribunal read it is a lie, a lie and a further satanization of our people. We, and we believe that the vast majority of the Serbian people, will be proud to keep everything that is Republika Srpska and everything that those who have defended Republika Srpska and gave their lives and for you, and also for those to whom I ask the question, which I repeat again, is Aleksandar Vukic, Ana Brnabic and Nela Kuburovic, to be more important words that Radovan Karadzic himself said after this scandalous verdict, which is that the Serbian people have already won with him and with all those who gave their victims, and in the state of Serbia is to immediately take action and therefore ask – what will they do about all this that has happened and this shameful verdict of Radovan Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52467	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52468	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will as always. So it's about agriculture. We spoke several times here at the Assembly and on committees. In particular, it is about the membership, the completion of the commission, the follow-up and in one part of the question is mine – when will a new law be passed that will actually give us a greater accent in the Law on Cooperation, since the legal proposals that have been since the previous period? In particular, there is no development of agriculture for all of us living here in Serbia. We now have a large number of landlocks, specifically, which I now say to these municipalities, such as my community from which I come, the municipalities in southeastern Serbia, which they now have, as they say, a smaller number of inhabitants, a larger number of people who have inherited these parcels, and the possibility of people dealing with agriculture is when that commission is done, that is, to be a voluntary grouping of the country. It's one way to increase the parcels. With the work on the membership and adoption of these legal acts, we must work in the next period and, together with local self-government, enter into the process to do as many parcels as possible, to get the parcels much bigger and to solve the legal property situation through cohesion, i.e. inheritance, because we are witnessing that some plots, some fields in our neighborhoods are still taking place on pedestal property. So, we're gonna be able to do all these things by compasses. We're going to solve the draining, solve the access routes, and normally give people a chance to be a little more serious in the municipalities they say God was given to deal with, but because of some of the things that were in the previous period where the unwanted things were, where there were wars, sanctions, and even after 2000, we know what was done, that that's what was necessary. So the composition, the voluntary grouping of the country is an accent for all of us and here in the Assembly, normally, and in the locale, to involve as many people as possible, that since we have a large number of professional people, we have our own, as friends who have helped us in several projects that have been done as seen in some municipalities, where they have produced results, where people now see what is a combination. Once again, my question is will it soon be found in the Assembly of the New Law on Cooperation or will it be within the framework of now's last law, just to put more things in that part and to put an accent on the country's voluntary grouping? One more thing for all of us that we wanted to do, we at a place, in Serbia, in small municipalities, is also to solve these legal property things through a comcommissioning programme, solving access roads to these ataric surfaces. Normally, one of the great things is to solve the problems of old people and solve problems in a way that provides institutions that will be more present through the locality for our agricultural holdings, for our people in the villages, for our people who have problems both with health and with people who need to go around them, with the geronto housewives, because a large number of small municipalities such as my municipality where I come from, there is no possibility that all these things will be financed, but we need to do it systematically through the program, through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, through other government organizations. We have to make an accent that in those areas where there are old people, we have to give them maximum support and give these old people a safe future, that is, to make it easier for them to fight for. One more thing for all of us who live in southeastern Serbia is the accent on our women in the country, on our people young people who not only live in the village, but in these small municipalities, we must all together now through the programs that the government is now giving, through all these things, and also local self-government, have to put more emphasis on providing conditions, that people stay in these villages, that people stay to live in those areas, because only that way can we stop this migration when basic conditions, roads, sewers, waterways are provided, that there is normal in every village, that there is Internet, that there is equality of electricity power everywhere. One thing, for all of us, that's important, cooperative. The cooperative programme, by hiring these people in these villages, to stay in their hearths and I am sure that at that time we will have the opportunity to make our municipalities stronger and that in these municipalities we can remain living with employment, normal, and the stimulation that the state of Serbia gives and release new jobs for these business entities through programmes provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, these are my questions and I think it is, we must put the accent on undeveloped areas, mountainous areas and southeastern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52469	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Dr Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52470	Thank you. My parliamentary question is addressed to the Ministry of Health and is related to the emergency procurement of the Luminex machine for the Department of Tissue Typeling of the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia. The “Luminex” apparatus is used to heatify and to prove the antibodies of the anti-heil anite. These analyses are necessary for the organ transplant programme, primarily the kidney, heart and liver, and for the transplantation of the parent cell of haematopoiesis and the study of haylase risk to diseases. Also on the Luminex machine is the hi-latification of donors for Serbia's bone marrow register. Given that Serbia's blood transfusions laboratory has been accredited by the European Federation for Immunogenics, they are obliged to deliver the results of external controls with this method. Serbia's bone marrow register was formed in 2005 at the Institute for Blood Transfusion of Serbia in co-operation with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of enabling donors to be found for patients who need a transplant of the parent cell of haematopoiesis, who do not have a suitable donor within family members. Since February 2012, Serbia's bone marrow register has been part of the World Register, with the consent of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and the Biomedicine Authority. The establishment of international co-operation also allows access to the database of other countries of the World Register and the possibility of finding a donor for our patients. Also, the availability of donors from our patient treatment registry outside Serbia has been made available. The registry works in accordance with the standards of the World Register and co-operates with the centres for stem cell transplantation of haematopoiesis, haematology clinics and transfusiological services from all over Serbia. The registry performs a search for donors at the request of the Centre for Transplantation in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, VMA and the Institute for Mother and Child. So far, 126 transplants have been made from a direct donor in our country. Serbia's bone marrow register contains a database on the hilatification of persons who have applied to be voluntary donors of the parent cells of haematosis. The hilatification of donors is done in the Department of Tissue Tissue Tissues Laboratory of the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute. The quantification agents are obtained from funds based on the contract of the Institute with the Ministry of Health for the performance of the general interest. The project has been implemented continuously since 2005. The tissue typeing department has one Luminex machine that has been used since 2010. Given the increased volume of work and the importance of timely delivery of results in transplant programmes, it is necessary that the tissue typeing department has another such apparatus, which was also the conclusion in the effi Inspector's reports. I propose that consideration be given to the possibility of obtaining a Luminex machine with the procurement of a reagent for the typing of the register of donors, given that the number of donors in the Register is increasing each year, the defined budget funds are not sufficient and can only be typed by 100 people per year. The increase in the number of donors in the National Register is significant because donors for patients who need a haematopoiesis stem cell transplant are faster available and the total costs of transplantation are multiple. The price of the reagent for the typing of four thousand donors is about 200,000 euros, with the "Luminex Flex Maps 3D" apparatus receiving gratis. That machine alone costs 80,000 euros. In the hope that we will find an understanding that the transplant program must not depend on one apparatus and that we should not allow a delay in tests that can delay transplants, I am investing an appeal except for the Biomedicine Administration, the Ministry of Health, the Drug and Medical Devices and the Public Health Sector and all people of good faith to get involved in the implementation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52471	Thank you, Dr. Babico. Since there are no more entries for the word, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for the acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The word is Mr. Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52472	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday all day and today, we are likely to spend on a debate on the draft law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and the Declaration of Vojvodina. I don't see Mr. Chanka in the O.R. right now, who is the first signator of this proposal, but there are colleagues of Papuga and Lazic, so we'll be able to say a lot about this. It's an impression, a respected colleague, and I tried to listen very carefully to you all day, with your suggestion that an ordinary citizen who lives in Vojvodina or lives somewhere in Shumadia, mentioned here and Shumadi, somewhere in my neighborhood where I come from, is at least at the very least confused with what this law should bring to him in some everyday life and whether someone in a small municipality in Vojvodina, Mali Gjoš or anywhere else will live better to adopt this law today or tomorrow in the National Assembly. My deep opinion is he won't. I am afraid that this proposal is only something that will bring about that one administration which is now funded by all of us citizens of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from Belgrade, and you with this text have a desire to have it in Novi Sad and in fact that this money is only, and it all comes down to the essence of who will control the money of the citizens of Serbia or Vojvodina, that it will be deployed from Novi Sad. You were in the opening part of yesterday quite argumentically saying what it is that Vojvodina should do, and I agree with that. Of course, the key argument is roads, environmental protection, drinking water and waste water, as the biggest problem, but it is a major problem not only of the Vojvodina but of the whole part of Serbia, and I can understand that argument. What's problematic to me here is your colleague, Mr. Chank, saying that it would all work better if, I don't know, the Pension Fund were in Novi Sad, that the roads had a special public enterprise in Novi Sad. Does this mean that you honestly believe that the pensions in Vojvodina would be bigger if we had a special pension fund in Vojvodina without being part of Serbia's Pension Fund? Of course it's clear to everyone that it wasn't like that. If some people who perform certain functions today are not doing well, they need to be relieved, and in no way threaten the unity of the Republic of Serbia. Also, what got my ears lit up, which I have to tell you, dear colleague, is when we mentioned paths, for example. The citizens of Serbia remember well that you are in power in the territory of Vojvodina, and you have well supported the Republic government since 2000, so here, remember, when concessions for the Horgos-Pozega highway should be done, that you and your LSV colleagues have tried to bring that concession down. It was eventually torn down, and I'd like to remind the citizens, who are watching this TV broadcast, if that concession had passed during Kostunica's first government, we would have the Horgos-Požega highway today. Why am I bringing this up? I only mention for one reason why it is clear to all that state roads can only be financed by the Republic and we have nothing against, when I say that we are coming from central Serbia, the Forest, to finance from budgets and loans where the state of Serbia will give guarantees and the way of Novi Sad-Rum and from here the highway from Belgrade to Zrenjanin. Nobody's got a problem with that, but don't pay any respects to us when we want to do complete projects the way you respected it about building a highway, or concession for Horgos-Požega. I'm afraid that these laws that come to the Serbian Parliament, where we tried to understand yesterday who is actually the author of this law, is that DS that at that moment held the lead in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, is it Miss Jerkov, is it you, but we are discussing the signatures that are here in front of us and I sincerely hope... This is where Mr. Pastor said yesterday there was no political will to adopt such a law. I think that there is a political will to adopt a fair law on the financing of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, but there is no political will to adopt such a text, which is by far nakaradan, which needs to be corrected and returned, in my opinion, to the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, that a comprehensive text be adopted and that, as such text, a consolidated one, comes here before the MPs of the National Assembly that we could adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52473	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Nada Lazic, an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52474	Let me just point out, I'm not getting into the details of the roads, etc. The whole idea is to respect the Constitution, or the law on this kind of law, whether it will be called a law on funding jurisdiction or otherwise, but to resolve this issue. To remind myself, and this bill of law, the Executive Greater Autonomous Province of the Duke has done it in time. There have been various attempts to level the province and republican agreements, regardless of what the ruling furniture was in power. I'm not getting into that at all. Even the current prime minister of the province's government has said the conditions for this law to be resolved, i.e. the issue of financing the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. So it would definitely have to be done in some way, by some law, because the Constitution said that such a thing was solved by a special law. Unfortunately, what we are constantly asking – how did these 7% come as a model, i.e. as a sum to be transferred to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina? Now we all pay into one common register, and then the autonomous province returns to that 7%, and there's little funds, or original incomes. These are the problems we're having here, I'm under the impression, we don't understand. We're not asking anyone to give us anything, we're just asking for less to be taken and that that 7% is a stumbling block, which is why we came into this situation to talk about today. It's good to talk. There have been attempts to speak from both levels of both province and republican on this subject. That's why working groups were formed at different stages of the ministry, so I say, different finance ministers and Mr Vujovic, I will remind you, said there are neither professional nor economic reasons for not passing one law like this, but that everything depends on political will. We're talking about it today and I'd like to, and I wish there'd been a lot of amendments to this law here. No one said this is a typed text that has to pass as such, but we need to talk about it, because it's practically a prelude to decentralisation, I think, and a story about decentralisation. We are not saying that one Forestia or another part of Serbia needs something. We want the debate to be opened and this issue to be resolved, because the fact that local self-governments have the same problem because of the same law, that is, that is, the Budgetary System Act and that local self-governments have been reduced from budgets and normal frameworks have been reduced to function when it comes to communal activity and anything related to the functioning of local self-government. They all have a problem with that, and it is simply an opportunity to talk about the subject and try to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52475	Thank you, colleague Lazic. Mr. Jovanovic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52476	Thank you. Mrs. Lazic, it is a rare opportunity for me to agree politically with you, but what I could agree on today is that we need, first of all, a new law on financing cities and municipalities. As a folk MP, I have repeatedly, here and in that old building there, said that something that we have left of Mladjan Dinkic, as his fluid, and needs to be changed urgently. It is identical for any city in Vojvodina and central Serbia. Even today, we don't even know the clear criteria and parameters by which the city's base one size of Loznica gets so much money, and the same size of the city, for example, Cačka gets three times less. That's certain questions now. If something good can come out of today's debate, yesterday's debate is, I am sorry that Minister Nedimovic is not with us, but what he can pass on to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we urgently need a new law on financing cities and municipalities, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I would like to be in the course of the day or today, if you have specific information, to tell us nicely in 2018, which is behind us, how much, if you have exact data, invested in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia's budget. On this left-hand side, we believe that much, much, much more than that 7% is invested through direct investment, which you don't take at all in those 7%, and not to mention now building railroads, roads and everything else. Yesterday, the minister mentioned a public investment office that invests in every municipality. Now I'm going back to the first part of this story of mine. It is better for local self-governments to put what is their priority and to have more money in the local budget than to wait for anyone at the regional or republican level. It's better if you have the missing funds at this point. So, the conclusion is, we need first of all a political agreement to pass a new law on the financing of cities and municipalities at the level of all Serbia, and we need a comprehensive law adopted by the Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina, which we here as the National Assembly will declare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52477	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Mrs. Lazic, I can give you a replica. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52478	Let me just say briefly, when you mention the railways and the roads and the financing, these are the roads of national importance. That's what I'm talking about. I stressed that the level of municipal roads, only 11 municipal roads in the AP Vojvodina, exists, far less than those in the interior of Serbia, i.e. in the rest of Serbia and far away, far less than those in the region. That's what's our big problem. What is being built, no one slows you down, a railroad towards Budapest or highways. It's something that's a state. We're part of the state. We're not separated, if I may say so. It's crazy to think about something like that. I mean, it's the pathways of that level. Secondly, when it comes to the financing of municipalities, I fully agree with you. If you remember when the budget was adopted last year, you have a position of non-purpose assets assigned to municipalities. And then I raised the question – what are the criteria on which municipalities are allocated unintendedly? In translation, it means funds that can be spent on anything. There was no balance there for me when it came to the development of the municipalities. Some municipalities that belong to the more developed have received, for example, more funds than one Alibunar who has been devastated by the municipality. That's what we want and I agree with you that criteria need to be made, the law needs to be changed, that it should be resolved in the right way once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52479	Thank you. The next speaker is Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52480	Thank you. There are two budget lex specials. It is one for the 7% province's 7% province's jurisdiction and the other is for a 5% boost in agriculture and rural development. I agree that both should be fulfilled within the prescribed scope. I did not follow, and I do not know at what percentage the obligations to exercise the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina are fulfilled, whether it is 7% or less compared to the total budget tax revenues, but I know very well that this other budgetary Lex specialist is not being met at all, and it is being touched by farmers in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I, therefore, advocate that the same debate as this debate is opened also on the implementation of the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouraging Act, as we, on the basis of changes and additions to this law, have a permanent security of less than 5% of the budget revenue for agriculture and village needs in Serbia. In the first instance, this reduction was because the reduction of the subsidy from 100 ha to 20 ha was in plant production. In the second year, subsidies were reduced from 12,000 dinars to 4,000 dinars per ha. In the third year, there was a change in the interpretation of a member indicating what the funds were for, and instead of the budget needs of fostering agriculture and villages, it was reported to be for the ministry's budget. Nowhere in the world, and I have consulted an FAO expert, as an organisation for agriculture and food, is not considered to be an incentive in agriculture and rural development part that is objectively necessary for financing the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture such as salaries, travel expenses and any other fees necessary for the functioning of the agriculture ministry in each country. What I particularly want to point out is that we have soundly unacceptable budget revenues. One of these revenues is the introduction of a public service fee, which is also paid for livestock growing facilities if there is an electric number in them, and we know that such facilities do not view television. Also for counters on banners if this number serves to provide electricity for electric pumps for irrigation of orchards, vegetables, plastics, flowers, etc. These are the costs that really burden farmers unfoundedly. It seems to be small, but it doesn't necessarily mean because there are farmers who have seven deep wells, then farmers who also pay TV subscription for cattle and for the house in which members of that household live. Finally, what is particularly significant is what time-limit the state should settle its obligations to farmers, because if a farmer is late in paying taxes on his settlement every day over 15 February, 15 May, 15 August, 15 November, he has a tight interest, which is true, but there is no tight interest on payments from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget on the basis of incentives, subsidies, although the state prescribes that the legal time limit for paying all obligations in each other's claims is 45 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52481	The word is Marijan Rističević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 point 1. The topic of today's debate is the motion for a resolution on Vojvodina. The second topic is the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. The previous speaker spoke of incentives in agriculture. He did not accidentally miss the subject, but deliberately and deliberately changed the thesis. So, you're wearing a folk costume, you come from Zemun, you're modifying, as it is said, you're modifying the agenda, and you want to invest in farmers, and you forget to say that at the time you were a favorite of Dusan Petrovic, you got 62,000 euros from the Ministry of Agriculture, that you forgot that the incentives were 19 billion at the same rate. Today, he complains of an incentive of 43 billion and 24 billion more than at a time when he was a favorite of Agriculture Minister Dusan Petrovic. It's 130 percent. In 2017 alone, and what has never been before, especially in the time of Dusan Petrovic, incentives have been paid for 15,000 machines, tractors and connected machinery, for numerous fruit plantings, for the purchase of breeding throats, etc. Someone pulls out some data and then tries to trick the farmers. Incentives will continue to be increased. This country will respect farmers and processors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52483	Thanks, time. Your Honor, I believe you have entered more replicas than you have explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not sure. I don't decide by vote. I decide by the vote. We'll vote, but you have to listen to my explanation. I'm not sure you're right that he wasn't talking about the subject of the Rules of Procedure. (Miladin Ševarlic: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure. That was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chevarlich. So there's no replica. You stayed in the system, so I'm saying. Olena Papuga, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52484	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina has been without a resolved funding since 2008 and the Jubilee 10th year since the deadline for the Constitution to pass by following the financing law expires this year and 31 December 2019, respectively. Everyone's asking what 7% is. The situation in the Vojvodian finances has deteriorated further, on September 25th 2012, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia then passed a Law on the budgetary system that further worsened the financial situation and in the lives of the population of the AP Vojvodina. The Duchess looks like this today. Since the formerly developed region, it has today become a poor region. In the 21st century of 465 settlements, i.e. 45 local self-government in 60 municipalities alone, the municipalities have built a complete sewerage network. Where nearly 700,000 people have been drinking broken water in Europe for decades, and we know that a doctor in Vojvodina treats about 400 people, and in Srem about 549. In some local self - administrations, for example, a doctor in Temerino treats 975 people. The daily life of the Duke and the data that cover up relevant institutions has long been refuting even every thought of the Vojvodina in which to live. The life of the Duchess and the Duke is bad, and they show a variety of data in their daily lives. No institution in the country, including the ministry's resolution and the province's secretariat, the Bureau of Statistics, has had an accurate analysis of how many Vojvodina has been evicted for the past ten years, the last 20 years from Vojvodina. In the border areas of the AP Vojvodina, the situation is alarming. The Republic Statistics Institute only keeps records of how many people are moving from place to place, means how many people in the territory of the AP Vojvodina or the Republic of Serbia change their residence, and how many people leave the country, how many people leave the Republic of Serbia, and no one leads the statistics. In Vojvodina, there is an empty Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian and other villages, so that from now on it can be more and more difficult to discuss the multinational and multicultural Vojvodina, which was a real example not of Europe but of the whole world. The Hungarians go to Hungary, Slovakia to Slovakia, Romania to Romania, and the Russian who belong to me go the farthest, to Canada and to various European countries. The number of students attending classes in the languages of national minorities has been reduced. The information from the Orom community in the Kanjiz municipality has been defeated. In the last ten years, about 40% of the population has left, mostly abroad, mostly in Hungary. Most of them will never come back. In the northern town of Kanjiz, there are no unemployed, but this is not the result of economic investment but is in the midst of the economic and migration of the population in Germany, Hungary and Austria. About 4,000 people from the municipality of New Vienna back several years, and this municipality to remind the population of 25,000, so 4,000 inhabitants are very large, has moved from that municipality of Novi Becej. However, the defeated data is that only twelve children were enrolled in the Hungarian departments this year in Novi Becej. There were 12 classes before, 15 years and a half ago. According to the 2011 census, which says the population of Vojvodina accounts for 27% of the total population of the Republic of Serbia compared to 2002, the number of people in Vojvodina decreased by 5%. Beocin, Citište, Mali Ijosh, Opovo, the Landsport don't have any high school. No adult education school exists on the territory of Srema. Also, there is no university in Srem University in Novi Sad. The Republic of Serbia is the last on the list of countries to invest in education, and we know that only 3% invest in education. The information on the growth of economic activity indicators in the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia in 2017 showed that despite the fact that couples in Vojvodina can count on funds from different ministries, in 2017 the number of registered individual farmers was 23.716, and even 4.8% was lower than the previous year. That means that part of these small farmers either moved out of Vojvodina or simply can't process the country anymore, because it's not competitive. So there's a very big problem that the state isn't even trying to help these small individual farmers who have a few acres of land to survive. Today you can only live off intense agriculture, which these small pairs, small farmers simply can't meet all these obligations to the state, can't take the land in the arena, etc. What's the worst thing that's happened in the last 10 years in Vojvodina is that they're small farmers, to say they're paired by these small communities, from small villages that are now empty, they're left without state land, or they're left without being able to take into the arena a country that's in their abbey. We know well that the Republic of Serbia is instead of betraying the country and saving that duchy village, and eventually all the villages in the Republic of Serbia, but especially in Vojvodina, because in Vojvodina, this tragedy occurred that almost all the major properties, large agricultural combinations were sold to Arabs for 90 or 30 years. Former workers of the Morovic military facility, where the Arab firm took all the country to rent, it only pays 60 euros per hectare. Although the average price at which the orans are auctioned in the municipality of Backo Palanka, which houses the plant Karadjordevo and up to 350 euros. Instead of 1.2m euros, what could be charged from the leases, and trust me, our couples, regardless of what opportunities, if they want to develop their households, are renting a country in the arena and up to 250 euros. So what's been issued for 60 euros to the Arabs is really the humiliation and humiliation of the duchess of the duchess. A joint investment agreement, again with Arabs on big surfaces. The country was also issued in the combinations of Bacak and Sivac, "Adriatic" from Novi Gajdobra, "Young fighter" from Sonta, "Agrobaca" from Bac. I would like to point out once again that with all these measures, although someone thinks that Vojvodina is getting more funding and has more rights than some other parts of the Republic of Serbia, that is not true, the duchy pair and the Vojvodina is so humiliated. I will come to the beginning of my presentation, simply, the Dukes are forced to go to EU countries to work there in some factories, so they may send money to those who remain in Vojvodina, but Vojvodina is not developing in that direction, in that positive direction. Women from the Vojvodina villages who are victims of transition go regularly to guard the elderly in Germany, young people go to Slovakia, Germany. Simply, Vojvodina has been cleaning them up for these economic reasons in recent years. All those factories that were opened in Vojvodina, in my Tower where I live, I can't in any way attract young people to stay in the country. The only thing that could attract young people to the country in Vojvodina, that's agriculture, and the state has no hearing for it. Simply, Vojvodina, if you were to get more funding, she would believe me, use it in a good way, and it would be good not only for the Vojvodina, but for all of Serbia, as it has always been.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52485	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52486	Thank you, President. Dear People's MPs, we have before us today the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. As a Member of the Socialist Movement, I would first of all like to say that the AP Vojvodina is part of the Republic of Serbia, that the AP Vojvodina budget is part of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that the citizens of the AP Vojvodina are, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I agree with my colleagues that we need to pass a law that will be more precise to determine how we will fund the cities and municipalities in Serbia, but with a concrete proposal that lies before us today we do not agree, because we believe that the strategy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards Vojvodina, is very good. We believe that there is a lot of investment in both the economy and agriculture, and that these funds are greater than those which are binding to be identified. For us, above all, it is an unacceptable proposal that there is a separation of special income management, because the mechanism implemented to collect taxes is by law, it is on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia and there is no need to separate it into special units. We don't want you to adopt such a proposal, when we're talking about this very separation of the IRS, be anyone's separatist inspiration or anyone who can think there's a state within the state. We believe that Serbia should develop equally, we believe that the AP Vojvodina is not neglected by anything, but rather invested, as in other parts of Serbia. We are not opponents of decentralisation, but we believe that this kind of distribution is not decentralisation. decentralisation is not really about sharing certain powers that need to be in the hands of the Republic itself. We believe that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal, whether they are in central Serbia, are in Vojvodina or we are talking about Albanian national minorities in KIM. It's all the equal people of the Republic of Serbia. If this was encouraged by facts, we can start with data that the government of the Republic of Serbia has implemented fiscal consolidation in Vojvodina, that certain debts have been reduced, savings have been made in the budget of 2.2m euros, the planned budget for 2019 has been increased by 13 billion, it is higher than in 2016. The construction of roads is under way, the construction of the Vojvodina radio-television is under way, the bridge was built after 19 years, 29 factories were opened, invested in sport, invested in culture. We really believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not neglect Vojvodina in any way, and as I said, we agree that it should be specified, in a way, financing, but all cities in Serbia, not individually for Vojvodina, central Serbia, etc. I just want to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for really trying and doing it in such a way that all citizens are equal, as I said, in central Serbia, and in Vojvodina, as well as in KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52487	Thank you. The word is Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52488	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is good that immediately after the 100th anniversary of the association of Vojvodina, the decision of the Great Assembly in Novi Sad, and today here in the Serbian Parliament, it is said of Vojvodina in which Serbs, Slovaks, Bunjevci, Shokci and others decided to live together, in the then Kingdom of Serbia, and their joint decision was that Serbia was their homeland. It's another positive indicator of what kind of country we've been living in, because the monarchic arrangement, for which the return of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement is being restored, is a symbol of tolerance and multiethnicity, such as the symbol of tolerance and multiethnicity and the city from which I come, Sombor, and I'm proud of it. Today here in the Serbian Parliament, also, the MPs are members of the national minorities from Vojvodina and from other parts of our beautiful Serbia, because this is a country for which their ancestors and representatives of their people fought more than a century ago. And that's good. What's bad is that everyone in opposition is full of decentralisation, and as soon as they come to power, they forget about it. And that's the way it is with the vast majority of political organizations. So, very similarly, it demonstrates the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and its President Nenad Canak, by the way, I'm sorry he's not here today, maybe he could answer some of the things I'm going to ask today. Speaking of decentralisation of the Duke by the League model, I think I'll be able to best explain it in examples, and just the best examples are where the organisation and its members have the opportunity, when the allocation of financial resources is. In the first place and where I have, to say the least, had experience, it is an example of the former Sports and Youth Secretary, Marinika Tepic. I was president of the Sports Federation of the City of Somboro from 2014 to 2017. In 2015, I was fortunate to have the Sports Union that I am leading as the best sports alliance in Serbia to win the May Prize right here in this assembly. That's when I met Marinika Tepic, who came to take a picture with us and when she heard what political organization I came from, an organization that has been the heritage of the sprawl tradition, since then the financial tap from the province was closed to the town of Sombor. Instead of helping, because we had great projects, they refused us even if we sent projects that concern children distracted by development. In the meantime, I only have the papers here from 2015, so I'm just going to set a few examples, because there's really a lot of them, and I don't want to take too much time for my colleagues. You'll see that everyone can have this look at, if you just take a look at it, then you'll see how the people of Vojvodina's funds have been ruined, where these finances, where all sides have gone, like, for example, to the Banatian Shores Association, millions of dinars. I'll only remind you, whenever I say, that you remember that we were rejected by 200 to 300,000 dinars that we asked exclusively for children's developmental programmes that made us the most, which defined the Sports Commission, to award us the best sports alliance award. Let's move on. The primary school "Grebenac", Pančevo, 5,800,000. Otherwise, when you see elementary schools here, I don't think any of the Panchevs who applied exist without getting funding and they're all in millions. I'll remind you that's where the sports secretary is from. I can't list it all, of course, but whoever wants to see it will be able to see that the maltenes are every other in the Pancevo or Zrenjanin municipality, right where it came from, either that secretary or where LSV had the best results. It's all millions of dollars. These are amounts that are absurd. For example, the Alliance for School Sports of the Vojvodina 15 million dinars for props. With those 15 million dinars, we, for example, held facilities in Somboro City, all the facilities in one year. Of course, six million Panchevo, five million Panchevo, four million Panchevo, and then we move on to Zrenjanin. When you look at it like this and you see, the Lehel football club from Zrenjanin, I guess there's a colleague here who used to play football, has anyone ever heard of that club that got two million dinars? Lehel from Zrenjanin. Then, the Indji municipality at the time, the richest municipality in Vojvodina, gets nine million and nine hundred thousand dinars to equip the sports hall. Kačarevo, Kačarevo, Kačarevo, Pancheva municipality. By the way, this Kačare village, with all due respect to the people who live there, has received more funding, a village than the entire Western-Baba County. The swimming club Pančevo, Pančevo, Pančevo, Žitište, Kačarevo, and all million amounts, the Banatish Shore Club "Marjevo" – 650, the Japanese sports martial arts club "Goshinkan" – 320 000, was exactly the figure I was looking for for for children distracted in development. American football club Wild Dogs, Banatian Shores Club "Gilkoshi" Pancevo, all honours for jillkos. And finally, the Association of Citizens for the Promotion of Sports Novi Sad "I come to play" – 700 thousand dinars. Anyone who has any knowledge of politics and sport can't help but express their suspicion that some of these financial resources were not magically returned to those who needed to be returned. We all know that very well. Just look at some of these facilities and you'll see how much funding has been spent. Unlike this decentralisation advocated by LSV, I will only say in a few sentences what the Movement of Reconstruction of the Kingdom of Serbia sees as decentralisation. First of all, I would agree with my colleagues from the Radical Party, where they said that decentralisation of municipalities was more important than the one we had the chance to talk about so far. We see, apart from Belgrade, that Novi Sad, together with Nis, Kragujevac, are the capitals and that the capital be Belgrade, where the king will live, that the ministries will be in these cities, in Nis Ministry of Defence, for more than practical reasons, unfortunately. In the Kragujevac Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education in our New Sad. Now, that's decentralisation, and that decentralisation has to be followed by political and electoral decentralisation. What we listen to today and what we usually hear when the Social Democrats League rating starts to fall, it's the most common charity to the Vojvodina. I'd like to say, directly, indirectly, the League and Mr. Nenad Chank, because I'm very pleased to come, I think it sucks when you talk about someone and they're not there. If you already want to propose laws, then you should first respect the laws of the Serbian state, so I remind you that in 2004, the rights of the Yugoslav army in the country and the partisans, that Draža was rehabilitated in 2015, while the prime minister was Alexander Vukic, that Draža was a man who was decorated by the strongest allies of the United States, Truman, De Gaulle, France, Poland and many other countries. And, most importantly, because we often call upon the United Nations, that there is no movement of General Draža Mihailovic in all the United Nations documents on the Quinces movement. I'm saying this because the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina launched an initiative to replace the presidency of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement of Branka Bežanov from the post of deputy president of the Assembly, because, listen, she took part in the anniversary of the arrest of Draža, one of the greatest hero of the Serbian people. And they're looking for her shift. Shameful, miserable, and most importantly, unfounded by law. We understand that Mr. Canak and the League of Social Democrats, the day of the Duke's accession to the Kingdom of Serbia, sees Serbia as one of the darkest days in history, but must understand that it is lonely. Judging by the percentage of votes he has, he may be more lonely than ever. Of course, as usual, then there goes the worry of Vojvodina. I would not like to learn the history of Mr. Chanko, he is educated, smart, a man with a lot of experience, but I must tell him that the Serbian Vojvodina, before she joined the Kingdom, was one of the most undeveloped areas in Austria, that she was treated as a periphery, whose only task was to be a wall to defend against the Turks, that she had the greatest bloom in the Kingdom, and that by the arrival of communists, those whose ideology Mr. Canak had returned to the heritage, because he who fought against the Serbs in the First World War, and the communists returned him to be the president of our country, transferred the most important factories from Vojvodina to Slovenia and Croatia. The movement to rebuild the Kingdom of Serbia, and I end this, is about national reconciliation, but I repeat, national reconciliation must be based on the true history of our people. After all, we have one similarity with the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and Nenado Canka, which is that we are both in favour of the monarchy, only that Mr. Canak is in favour of the return of Habzburg and we are in favour of the return of Karadjordjevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52489	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go. I'm sorry, I skipped the MP Yahyu Fehratovic. I apologize to Veronica Radetti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52490	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are very pleased to have the initiative to discuss today in this honorable home on the draft law tabled by one opposition party. This speaks of the power of democratic commitment and of what we attended yesterday and today, that we can exchange different arguments here and make decisions that are consistent with what we consider to be right. Also, it's very important that things like those that burden our society for a very long time are solved within the state system. It is particularly important that we, as a party to justice and reconciliation, speak strongly and talk about the decentralisation process, as one aspect of improving the overall life opportunities of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially because we come from environments that are not the capital, which are not Belgrade and which also have certain problems. Especially because we come from an environment that is multicultural, multiconfessional and where certain things also burden our society and pushing under a carpet of topics like these, such as the subject of Vojvodina autonomy or Sandzak's status, and can only prolong the agony and use those who do not want and do not think well of this country. That is why it is very important for us to start talking about these topics here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we can specifically exchange opinions, evidence, arguments and come to what is common good for all of us citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we, as a party, are also in favour of decentralisation not in order to violate the state of Serbia's system, but to strengthen those environments that have been completely neglected in the past 30 years, especially in the period of the Democratic Party regime, where the biggest criminal acts have been done in terms of privatising large giants and where all that has been done by some of the resources that could have been used to improve the economic conditions, the lives of all of us, the citizens of those environments have been further devastated. That's why we think it's good and we need to look for solutions. The model we propose for our region, the Sandzak region, is a European cross-border region, which will respect and respect the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the Republic of Montenegro. I am saying this because yesterday and the promoter mentioned the Sandzak region several times and of course we believe that such a model like South Tyrol or some others who already exist will be able to prevent all those who do not think well of our country from using those regions to settle their own policies that are very often destructive and destructive. Especially because we've had such attempts, here, and in the previous period, and we think it can only harm us, the minority peoples, in the Republic of Serbia, and the whole region. That is why we are encouraged and we really want this debate to be as much in our Assembly as possible and that these issues that are very important for the whole region be the subject of discussion and be the subject of agreement, because this is the way of justice, reconciliation and empowerment of the trust of minority and other peoples in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, our entire state apparatus. We also think that strong decentralisation can do a lot to devastate and those who are neglected by strength, recovery, and what we also have as an announcement by the president and the entire government, let's say, like those announcements in Tutin a few days ago, of course, we want it to be realized and that it is thus shown and that this country is truly thinking about all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52491	I thank you, MP. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were mostly here yesterday, making political views on the proposal of these two acts regarding the AP Vojvodina and we came to, I think, some conclusions. First, we realized that it was plagiarizations of the proposal, so since prior to that, Aleksandra Jerkov appeared offended why Nenad Canak plagiarized her works. Otherwise, this is plagiarism because in the broadest interpretation, plagiarism is everyone's author's work. There's nothing controversial about it. Yesterday we learned that Aleksandra Jerkov had already plagiarized the act of the government of the AP Vojvodina, so double plagiarism is at stake. Yesterday we reiterated and reminded that the SRS is against the autonomy of Vojvodina and that we advocate the widest autonomy of local self-government and that this should be the future task of this state and of the government and of the opposition certainly when it comes to the SRS. We also found that both of these proposals were unconstitutional, the resolution to that extent even if the title did not say that it was the AP, but only the Vojvodina. We established after the debate and that these acts, especially the proposed law, would actually be if we were not adopted by God, would be fiscal separatism that would be the introduction to that real, more serious political and legal separatism. We need to speak plainly about what's on the agenda. What we also realized is why did these two proposals come up on the agenda? There are certainly more than 200 draft laws proposed by MPs in the National Assembly, and there are many things like that, for the sake of order, the submitted but there are serious proposals. Why, for example, do we not, on the agenda, have an SRS proposal to put aside the Law on Public Executors? Believe that there is no man in Serbia who would not look forward to the law. We, Serbian radicals, think that actually this agenda is some kind of test balloon, let's see or see what the public's reaction is going to be to discuss these topics at all. As we understand it, the government won't vote for this, and then the real question is, did you just want to please McAllister and Kocijančić in this way and why do you have to do it in the first place? First, stay away from the road to the EU if you see, here and yesterday have proven to us that it is not our place, that our enemies are there, that we should abandon this European path, and in particular we do not understand why you accept the conversation at all on the subject that we should pass some law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, when we are not bound by anything. Nicely yesterday, the head of the parliamentary group of forwarders explained, and here was quoted by article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is obvious that we have no obligation to pass such a law, and especially not in this text. In today's debate, we will talk about the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and, above all, I want to explain to the public a member per member of the SRS parliamentary group, to whom a member of the Constitution breaks this proposal and which members of the system laws, the Tax Procedure and Administration Act and the Budgetary System Act would be severely violated if this proposal were accepted. The concept of establishment and territory of AP are regulated by Article 182. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in the position of the 2nd member is also prescribed to quote -- the Republic of Serbia has the AP Vojvodina and AP KIM, remember that. The essential autonomy of the AP KiM will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure provided for for in the amendment of the Constitution. This is our obligation, but before that, to solve the problem at KIM, to preserve our sovereignty and territorial integrity, which we can do, ladies and gentlemen, exclusively with the help of the Russian Federation that we must ask for this kind of help. The financial autonomy of autonomous provinces is regulated by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the position of the 3rd member stands precisely – the law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income, and Article 4 says the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Serbian budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. So, very precise, but what does the proposer say in this bill? It provides for the establishment of a tax administration of the AP Vojvodina, the introduction, elimination or change of tax rates, and for the Republic of Serbia, in any transfer or trust of new operations to the AP Vojvodina, to provide adequate transfer funds or sources of income to carry out these transactions. Minister Nedimovic said yesterday – if this law were passed and something like this was adopted, it would really be completely unmounted, decommissioned, however you want our financial system. What else does the promoter say? Foresaw the law of education, imagine some commission that would follow the application of this law, but how? He says that in case the provisions of other laws go against this law, Mr. Canak says, this law will apply. It was only missing to say that if the Constitution did not comply with this law that we would apply this law in relation to the Constitution, because this law really did not comply with the Constitution. So this law would actually have to be adapted to system laws. Two system laws – The Law on Procedure and Tax Administration and the Law on the Budgetary System. This is simply unacceptable. Article 168. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration shall be governed by the way in which the tax administration is organised. The tax administration is organized into regional departments with branches and sections and we have precise regional departments for Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Pristina. There are no autonomous provinces. In Article 11, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in State Administration Affairs are governed by a first-degree procedure, a single register of taxpayers, etc. Not to read it all has a lot to do with it. So they're all precisely listed responsibilities. The tax administration independently performs the tasks of this previous position, in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and is organised to provide functional unity in implementing tax regulations. So nothing can be added here or taken away. In order to ensure uniform implementation of the rules, from the department's jurisdiction, which is responsible for financial affairs, acts on the application of these regulations, provided by the finance minister, are binding on the handling of the tax administration. So, the entire tax administration. So everything is precise and not ambiguously prescribed by these existing laws. We're going through the amendments to tell you more in detail about each member individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52493	Thank you. I didn't know you were done, because an MP from your group keeps throwing you away. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52494	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, I am sorry that today, in this high house, there are also no MPs present at the Alliance for Serbia, to face opinions and views on the Vojvodina Resolution, they must have more important things to do. They're doing illegal trespassing on the country's institutions these days, instead of being here to discuss a very important issue, which is Vojvodina. Look at their leader, Boška Obradovica, called Bosko Violent. He raided RIK and attacked members of the RIK, raided the municipality of Pećinci, raided Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, on the Administrative Board, raided the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia, Mrs. Gojkovic, raided the police station of Guch, committed an attack on journalist Pinka, attempted to invade REM, demanded the arrest of the president of the Republic and attempted entry into Serbia's presidency, asked the army to carry out a coup and arrest the president of the Republic of Serbia, committed an attack on RTS, along with its testers. From this little fascist, Serbian citizens can't expect anything good and won't stop. I am sorry, Mrs Gojkovic, that there are no MPs here today from the opposition and actions of the opposition, instead of misusing students for political purposes. That's what Bosko Obradovic and his follower Dr. Jovo Bakic, from the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, does. He gave Master's degree work, believe it or not, to student Matović Mihajl a theme, quote - The role of "Pinka" and "Hepija" in the creation and reproduction of the leader's panel and analysis of the content of the hosting of Aleksandr Vucic in the shows "Cirilica" and "Tough word", finished quote. It is the same, as if I gave the topic to a master -- the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual proscration and diletantism, the case of Jovo Bakic. At the moment when the president of the Republic of Serbia, finds a sustainable and sustainable and compromise solution for KiM and brings an investor from Germany, Dr Jovo Bakic said these days, quote - Aleksandar Vukic is a garbage man, Angela Merkel, finished quote. It's the same as saying that Dr. Jovo Bakic is a piece of shit for Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. Dear and esteemed, Mrs Gojkovic, I must say immediately that I will not vote in favour of this resolution, because it violates and degrades the Serbian people in all provisions in a very corrupt way. Here's what it says in Resolution - respecting Vojvodina, as a democratic, multinational, multi-confessive, multi-cultural autonomous province, which they build and share in their common lives the work of all types of work and the creation of members and members of its traditional and national communities of Serbian, Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Roma, Croatian, Montenegrin, rebel and others. Gentlemen, fellow MPs, how Mr. Canak is trying to put the Serbian people into national communities. The Serbian people are not the national community, they are the people. It should stand, as the author wrote this way – respecting the APV as a democratic multinational, multi-comfential and multi-cultural AP that they are building and in which throughout their lifetime they pervade their heritage and the results of all kinds of work and creation of the "Serbian people" should be placed, both members and members of other national minorities: Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian, Roma, Croatian, Montenegrin, Bunjeva and others. That's it. In a very corrupt way, the Serbian people are trying to level with the national community. Why Mr. Canak, in the text of Resolution, calls the Serbian people in the AP national community and ranks it as a national minority, ranking it as a national community, then Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian, when that is not the case. Here, let's figure out what a national minority is. It's part of a nation that doesn't live in its own country, but in another community. That's one definition. Second squad, the national community, what is it? The national community is part of a population of a country that differs from the majority population by language, culture, religion, custom, etc. Therefore, the Serbian people are not a national community, and neither is the national minority in Vojvodina, but he is a Serb people, and the rest are national communities and national minorities. I think this is a very perfidious way of trying to level national minorities, or national communities with the people. But why am I saying this? It's precisely because Mr. Nenad Canak is also a supporter of KIM's secession from Serbia. It was 05.03.2017, as a presidential candidate, I quote -- I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence. It's a finished quote. ... The evening news on 05.03.2017 is likely to recognise the APV for the state, the APV would be easier to declare as the Republic. But he's not the problem. There are bigger problems, let's just say, because he pleaded not yesterday for the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. There are those who are. For example, Cedomir Jovanovic, LDP leader, said, quote -- Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent country. Completion of quote 26.10.2017, one prominent weekly, page 30, etc. Here, Mr. Jovanovic, is direct in that part. So, I don't take much time. The resolution narrows the Serbian people to the APV to the level of the national community, as you have seen, it is irrefutable, or if you want national minorities, it is no wonder if what it seems like knowing the views of the author of the resolution. I'm still going to say something about the AP from Heraldica's position. Gentlemen, the MPs, for every nation, for every country or province, or city, coat of arms and flag, represent signs of the greatest special respect. Therefore, when conceiving the coat of arms of states and provinces and cities, the problem should be given great attention, as it represents one of the first-class, national, historical and political issues, as they question the national identity of the state and people, in this case the Serbian state and the Serbian people. The basic principle in the concept of coat of arms and flags of states, provinces or cities is that they, therefore, need to reflect the historical, heraldic and vexiological traditions of the state, province or city. If we apply this heraldic rule to the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina, then we can say that Vojvodina has at least a heraldic tradition of 170 years, probably before, surely. I mean, since 1848, she's had her own coat of arms and her tricolor flag ever since, and there's no dilemma there. However, the basic heraldic symbol of that coat of arms of the Vojvodina is a cross with four glasses. It's the coat of arms of the Duke. He stayed until 2002, 154 years old. It was in 2002 that already heraldic traditional coat of arms of Tadic, Jeremic, Djilas Democrats and Cank's leagues threw him out of use. Is that right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, or not? Thus, Tadics, Jeremics, Gilas Democrats and Cankiva leaguers committed an unprecedented heraldic, national, political scandal, unseen in these Balkan and European areas. Why did the Jeremics, Tadics, Gilas Democrats, and Cank's leaguemen throw him out of use? Because that coat of arms has the main heraldic symbol in it, the main national mark of the Serbs, which is the coat of arms with four glasses. That's the reason. It was first performed in a heraldic way the desrbification of Vojvodina and it is, to be understood, ladies and gentlemen, the heraldic tradition in Vojvodina is also a tradition of heraldic symbols of Banat, Backa and Srema, but also a star of five-pointed antifascism. I guess none of the scientists will deny that she has not proven herself anti-fascist and Vojvodina. Therefore, in conceiving possibly a new coat of arms of Vojvodina, all traditional heraldic symbols should be kept in it. So says science and there's a point, and that means you can get out of the current crisis that we've entered. According to the current AP statute, there are two coat of arms, official and traditional. This traditional, thanks to the SNS, because she was saving the cheek of Vojvodina and now it's in effect. I hope that in the near future the AP will possess one coat of arms that will maintain the heraldic historical and tradition of the Vojvodina of all these traditional symbols and there is no problem. That's all you have to learn to let her make politics accept. Finally, as the president of the SNS parliamentary group said, SNS MPs will not vote for this resolution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52495	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52496	Thank you. Dear presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would, above all, like to highlight on behalf of the SPS the consistency of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has put this very important issue on the agenda for Serbia. I also want to say that the Assembly is the right place to discuss the autonomy of Vojvodina and the content of that autonomy. Also, I would like to point out that the view of the SPS is that autonomy needs to be discussed. Autonomy is part of identity, part of the entity of Vojvodina, something that existed and exists and that no one in the SPS questions. On the contrary, the SPS has made it clear earlier and now that it is for the autonomy of Vojvodina, but the autonomy of Vojvodina in Serbia, not the autonomy of Vojvodina against Serbia. I would also like to point out the consistency of the promoter on the affirmation of this topic. Years ago, Mr. Canak was talking about the autonomy of the Vojvodina. This does not mean that I agree with what he is saying, but it is his right, but also the right of us other MPs and me as MPs of the SPS Group to say something about the text of the documents we are discussing today, but also about the explanation that the promoter has given. I believe that the text of the proposal for a resolution on Vojvodina is superficial, one-sided, in many elements contradictory, contrary to the Constitution, even the practical state of the country, but in many things it remains absolutely unspeakable. But all the things that are not contained in the text of the Vojvodina resolution, for example, the Proposer presented to us when explaining the text proposal, so we got a complete picture of what the Proposer really wants. Therefore, despite the inaccuracy of the numerous allegations in the explanation, which I will later state, it is clear that the motion for the status of the province which was established by the 1974 Constitution, where the province's constitution existed, and executive, and judicial, and legislative authority, property, incomes, and these are the elements and contents of autonomy for which the promoter advocated and which he stated in the explanation. So, what is not in the proposal for text, all ambiguity or almost all or indeterminates that exist, is explained by the explanation of the proposal for the text of the resolution. The promoter clearly wants autonomy to turn Vojvodina into a country in the country. In addition to this claim, I will mention two solutions from the 1974 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which discuss the province's constitution. In the basic principles of the 1974 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is pointed out that various people, peoples and peoples of Serbia are exercising their sovereign rights in the SFRY, in the socialist Autonomous provinces, in accordance with their constitutional rights and in Article 167, there are several members, and I have chosen this one to get to know the general public, quote: "The Socialist Republic of Serbia and the socialist Autonomous provinces are educated by the Presidency of the Republic, i.e. the AP Presidency representing the Republic, i.e. the AP and performs other rights and duties established by this Constitution, or the Regional Constitution." So, sorry about the Constitution is very evident. The promoter obviously wants solutions that had already been made by the 1904 constitution to Serbia's dysfunctional state, a state that was not able to make that unity legal order across its territory. In addition to this, I would like to quote to you two documents which are part of the element of the previous constitutional period, the Federal Constitution, which says that in the Greater Republic and the provinces, on the basis of the consent given by the Assembly of the Republics and the Assembly of Autonomous Provinces, the draft law, i.e. the second general act, is established. Thus, without the consent of the Autonomous Provinces Assembly, it was not possible to establish a proposal for a federal act or, even more explicitly, a genuine range of then autonomy and autonomy for which the applicant advocates can be seen even better from Article 3(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the law is passed by the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Serbia, with the previous agreement of the parliaments of autonomous provinces. If that consent is given only by the assembly of an autonomous province, the law can be passed and applied in the territory of the Republic outside the territory of autonomous provinces and the territory of the province of which the assembly has given its consent. So, from these two quoted attitudes, it is very clear that autonomy, which was then there and for which the proponent in the explanation is so hearty, implies the creation of an absolute para-state unit within the Republic of Serbia. It is also incorrect to suggest that the 1940 Constitution has been changed in an anti-constitutional manner, such as the ominous qualifications it has raised at the expense of Slobodan Milosevic. She was 90 years old. ) But since the genealogy of all events leads to these constitutional solutions, the way in which the Socialist Republic of Serbia's 1974 constitution changes, it means that the Serbian Parliament decides with the agreement of the Autonomous Province Assembly. The parliaments of autonomous provinces, both the assembly of AP Kosovo and Metohija and the assembly of AP Vojvodina, have made positive decisions and agreed to a proposal for constitutional changes that followed later. So Serbia has met all the conditions and adopted a constitution that has set the right measure of autonomy and established the legal unity of the state throughout the territory. Inaccurate claims by the promoter were made in explaining the bill's proposal concerning claims that after World War II an interethnic balance was disrupted. We know what happened, but in a situation where the population leaves one part of the territory with fascists, and the other part of the population comes as part of the process of moving the population from the rural areas of Yugoslavia to Vojvodina, it cannot be said that an ethnic balance has been disrupted and in which it would benefit or harm. On the contrary, all of us who talk about Vojvodina are saying that Vojvodina is a true example of a coherent interethnic community, where there are 29 different ethnic communities and that Vojvodina is a real example for all in Europe of a coherent life and I see no reason to use the term "interethnic balance". It is an incorrect and superficial assessment of the proposings on the alleged economic damage, which Vojvodina experienced years after the adoption of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about the 1990s. There is no explanation, not even a word, in the explanation of the UN sanctions proposals introduced in 1992, you know for the events that Serbia later found not guilty, but the UN organisation introduced. There are no words about the care and all that the Republic of Serbia has done, but also about the AP Vojvodina in the care of hundreds of thousands of refugees who have been expelled or have come from Slovenia, Croatia and BiH. There are no words about the effects of the bombing, which we were exposed to from 24 March to 10 June 1999. Now, it's about 20 years from this tragic event. There's no word on the effects of what happened after October 5th. If this first part of Mr. Canak didn't want to mention it for political reasons, then at least he should have mentioned the second part, because he was absolutely involved in the second part. All the things that had not been sanctioned and the bombs destroyed the liberalisation of imports made by DOS in 2001, and Mr Canak was absolutely part of that political establishment. What's left and alive after that liberalisation, possibly some factory or something, it's until the robbery privatisations that were made at that age and it's not fair, when already in detail Mr. Canak is talking about all the elements of Vojvodina's autonomy, so it's used by economic indicators not to use those words. In addition, counterpart Nedimovic told us about it yesterday. The text of the resolution, as I pointed out in several parts, in a significant part of the text of the resolution is superficial, unarranged, there is no significance about the association of parts of the former Austro-Hungarian Kingdom of Serbia. The promoter speaks of 1945, not to mention the decision of the Great National Assembly of 1918. Here, let me quote only two positions, two decisions of the Great National Assembly of 1918 – We join the Kingdom of Serbia which, by our work and development so far, guarantees freedom, equality, progress in every direction, not just us, but all Slovenian and non-Slovenian peoples who live together. The non-Serb and non-Slovenian nations that remain within our borders are provided with every right they wish to preserve and develop as a minority. The promoter presents the claims that are made in the text of the Vojvodina resolution, the proposer raises claims that question both our foreign policy of the state or deny them. An example of this attitude is the text of the resolution, paragraph 4, which speaks of the claim that Serbia should become part of the European family of states with peaceful foreign policy. One of my colleagues talked about it yesterday, what does it mean, Mr. Chanak, with a peaceful foreign policy? What foreign policy does Serbia lead today? Is Serbia running an aggressive foreign policy? Does Serbia not discuss foreign policy at the level of the authorities in charge? Can the words of the objection be found for what the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, is doing in international relations? Can words of opposition be found for what the foreign minister, Mr. Dacic, is doing? Is it not clear that there are four strategic objectives in the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, that is to achieve EU membership status, maintain good relations with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China, with the United States? What's so controversial about that? Developing good relations in the region, what's the issue? Developing good relations with neighbors. If you have an individual position that does not agree with this claim, that is fine, it is your right, but you cannot state the claim that we should lead a peaceful policy because it implies that we do not lead a consistent foreign policy or a claim from the same attitude 4 that speaks of a common foreign policy, where indirectly common foreign policy within the EU value, including a common foreign policy. As part of joining the EU process, do we not agree on our foreign policy? Yes, but the degree of consistency of this foreign policy depends on the documents the EU brings and of course on our interests. At one point, it was 80%, 70%, but now it is 50%, but this chapter of compliance with the EU's foreign policy is a chapter that has a period of time to obtain EU membership status. And that, of course, we already know what this is all about, although it doesn't say it, it refers to the Russian Federation. That should be questioned, our relations with the Russian Federation. I see no reason why Serbia would not have great relations with the Russian Federation, because in the Russian Federation we have friends who help us in international relations. If we can co-operate with those who bombed our country, I don't see any reason not to cooperate with those who have always been our friends. After all, if it hadn't been for this Russian Federation and the rights acquired within the Ottoman Empire in the late 18th century, to be the protector of Christian life in the Ottoman Empire, the question is what would have happened to both our people and what would have happened to our country and how to run this process of historical liberation. Why not cooperate with the Russian Federation? I don't think it's necessary because there's something here that doesn't exist. The law on the financing of the AP, on its inadequacy, best states that members of the 7.8.9 and 10th Constitutional Court decision already marked the opposite Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Its essence is politically and legally, i.e. the fact that it is an active and advocating self-resistance in relation to Serbia, the extra-teritorial Vojvodina, is best spoken by Article 11. The draft law, which states that this law will apply in the territory, only to find the draft law, Article 11, so that I do not remain in this position, I quote Article 11 — If the provisions of other laws or regulations are contrary to this Constitution, the provisions of this law shall apply. So, the supremacy of Vojvodina's laws against the laws of the Republic of Serbia or other legal acts. I'm not going to talk about citizens and citizens at all, I think that's exactly what my colleague Dusan Bajatovic said yesterday explicitly, I'm just going to quote you, Mr Canak, attitude, Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the ways of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. So, all citizens. There are no citizens of one part of the Republic of Serbia. Out of all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the proposals of these documents on Vojvodina and its financing, because these are not laws that would be made in favour of tolerance, but rather lead to disputes, conflicts and divisions within the Serbian society and create some extrateriority that should not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52497	Proposer, Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52498	I thank my colleague Obradovic for this exhaustive presentation, and I would just like to make a few clarifications. First of all, you Mr. Obradovic are talking about there being some kind of regret about the 1974 Constitution in my LSV. The 1974 constitution was valid before literally four states, since in the meantime the SFRY, then the SRJ, and the SCG, so now the Republic of Serbia, in other words, is a historical category that has absolutely no legal nor validity, nor can it be applicable to today's relations within the Republic of Serbia. What surprises me in your presentation is that it's as if you're a waste of your mind that you belong to a political party who is the heritage of the traditions of those who brought this Constitution. It's not an LSV, it's a SPS, where LSV is fully aware that this constitution was not perfect, but it was a constitution that contained extremely complex and, for today, incomprehensible concepts, a notion of who the President of the Republic and similar things were, which is totally contrary to democratic principles. That's why I'm not talking about the 1974 Constitution. I'm talking about autonomy, autosnomos, means self-administering norms, which is something completely different, and it can't be compared to the 1974 Constitution at all. We here need to talk about what kind of Vojvodina should be in the 21st century, whose first fifth is already spent, not going back to the 20th century. Secondly, you're talking about the 1990 Constitution. This 1990 Constitution, I must remind you, was brought with the consent of the circuit assemblies when a type of change in the composition of these congregations had already been made, which in 1978, so on. An anti-burocratic revolution in Novi Sad, in 1989 in Kosovo. So it was the pressure within the one-party system on the parts of the same party. It was a factional struggle within one party, and thus the Constitution was a one-party constitution, because we were then in the opposition in 1990 – first elections, then the Constitution, not the Constitution and then the elections. That was our attitude. On the other hand, this Constitution in its last article, I will remind you, had a decree that reads – in case the provisions of this Constitution are contrary to the provisions of the SFRY Constitution, the provisions of this Constitution will apply. This, Mr. Obradovic, was the first separatist constitution on the territory of the SFRY, because it directly placed itself above the federal constitution by adopting such a legal norm. When you were talking about the ethnic balance disorder in Vojvodina, I didn't say that for any reason, some regret about this or that, because Vojvodina, if you look a little better, changes the population to a large extent every fifty years. The population in 1945 was neither like the population in 1895 nor 1995. So, every 50 years, the population in Vojvodina is largely changed. I just put it as a circumstance to explain the time in which some events took place. The mention of 1918, as much as you blame me for not mentioning that date, is the reason for that. In particular, the decisions of the internationally recognised Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia's interim National Assembly have highlighted that there is no continuity between pre-war and today's Yugoslavia, I quote, in terms of its internal arrangement, meaning, in relation to the internal arrangements. New Yugoslavia, under the rule of communists, accepted continuity with the Kingdom, but in the internal order declared revolutionary legal discontinuity. In that sense, it is formal-law, but it was politically necessary to restore the ties between Vojvodina and Serbia, which was done in 1945 on August 10th, and on that day, the Third Session of AVNOJ turned into the interim National Assembly of the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia, the most legislative presidential body. That is precisely why I am connecting today's AP Vojvodina and today's Serbia to 1945, not 1918. That's the reason. It's not another reason. I have no intention of questioning the relationship, but only to specify it, as we talked about the 1974 Constitution, which was before several states, so is this association of Vojvodina or whatever you want to call it with all the contradictions, which this event can cause in historians, something that belongs to another time, since in the meantime there was another war with everything that happened in it, revolution and, I repeat, the internationally recognised interim DFJ National Assembly then made that decision. That's the only reason I'm talking about 1945, not 1918. That is why another important thing arises, which is that very soon afterwards, there was an attempt to, as early as September 1st 1945, the Presidency of the National Assembly of Serbia passed the Law on the establishment and formation of the AP Vojvodina, where the act attempted to legalise the interpretation of Serbia's autonomy. Kosovo's autonomy has formed Serbia on its territory. Vojvodina's autonomy is a completely different character. But all that we're talking about right now is not a topic relevant to the law we're talking about right now. The law we're talking about is a constitutional obligation that I've talked about on several occasions, which I think we all feel is necessary in LSV to get it out of the legal vacuum situation without adopting a Law on the financing of Vojvodina for ten years from its Constitution of prescribed deadline. As for the destruction of the economy after October 5th, whose synonym is Miroljub Labus and one completely uncontrollable liberalisation, there is more to it than agree with you. It was an inadmissible move that, unfortunately, LSV could not, given the relations in society at the time, influence, but it raised its voice against it for the simple reason that it absolutely stabbed itself in the back of the domestic economy, because instead of the transformation process of the economy stretching to a sufficient number of years, in order for the economy to adapt, it was shortened to a few months, which completely unprepared economics threw it to its knees. As far as peaceful foreign policy is concerned, I must say I'm a little surprised by your attitude, because it tells me about the bad order, the poor definition within the very bill that you could fix with the amendment. No one says Serbia does not lead a peaceful foreign policy, but only stresses the peaceliness of Serbia's foreign policy. In that context, I think it's just a misunderstanding. We are not talking about anything else, but in order for this peaceful foreign policy, especially towards the environment, to be better underlined, would be more than directed, for example, to be determined by the Serbian state authorities according to Radovan Karadzic's sentence to life imprisonment, accepting the fact that he was involved in a genocide behind which Serbian leadership also stood in a certain light at the time. The reason I'm talking about, why I'm talking like this, is that on the signing of the Dayton Agreement, as one of the signatories, was then President Slobodan Milosevic, as commander-in-chief of the SRJ Armed Forces. Now, if you had Ali Izetbegovic, as commander-in-chief of the BiH Army, Dr Franjo Tudjman, as commander-in-chief of the Croatian Army, and Slobodan Milosevic, as commander-in-chief of the SRJ Army, then it is quite clear that their three signatures speak of those who conclude an agreement that interrupts the war. An agreement to end the war is signed by those who led the war, not by those who did not. That's one thing we might be able to talk about, but I don't think that's the point at this point, since we're talking about the Duke's Finance Act. Your question – why not cooperate with the Russian Federation? It's not written anywhere that we shouldn't cooperate with the Russian Federation. Moreover, the Russian Federation is extremely important, especially in the area of co-operation on the energy plan and there are no dilemmas, there is no further story. The issue of aligning the foreign policy involved is the practical harmonisation of the overall system of functioning of the Republic of Serbia with the EU if, and I have no doubt, the dominant desire in this parliament to join the EU. You and I have worked on it so many times in the end line together. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52499	Thank you. The word is Zarko Obradovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52500	Thank you, Mr. Canak, for these clarifications. I think she was needed and the public does, but let me say something. Just because we inherit the traditions of a party that existed at the time of the former SFRY doesn't mean that we agree with everything that was done in the name of that party. So, me personally, and the vast majority of my members, we think all the worst about the 1974 Constitution, because it was the cause of disintegration and decomposition and everything that happened and what, to say, created the basis for the disintegration of a beautiful state, whatever anyone thought of it for me was a good state. I cited very taxing because you quoted the provisions, or were talking about those times, what the content of autonomy was at the time, and just a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that talks about it, even if the case not only required the agreement of the Assembly of Autonomous Provinces for the change of the Constitution, but without that consent of the parliaments of autonomous provinces, the validity of a law could not apply to the territory of a province. If we agree, I have said and I have been very, very clear to me that, in my opinion, the proposer said more in the explanation of what he stands for than in the text of the proposal that we have today. Now, I'm sorry, if you're affirming the 1974 autonomy with the Constitution, with legislative, executive, judicial authority, and how you say the full autonomy of Vojvodina was carried out, and the state of Vojvodina was practically Kosovo, a state in the state, and we know what a set of historical circumstances it could absolutely be. You're the promoter, I'm not talking about LSV, but you represent it, I didn't mention it on purpose, I didn't go into it who wrote that document, I was just talking about the content of the document and what you said in the explanation. The 1990 constitution was changed in a way that envisioned the previous constitution. Then it can't stand your formulation that it's changed in an anti-constitutional way, because I'm sorry, I'm reading here, it says – the dukes have been returned to jurisdiction which was counter-constitutional usurped by the centralist government. They weren't against the constitution. In accordance with the Constitution, they have been implemented. Whether you like it or not, Mr. Chanak, that's your personal right. Of course, I consider this conversation very good because we are also talking about the future, but in this single text of the law, you say that we need some solutions, future solutions, based on the experiences of democratic countries. So, we're going, too, and experience can't imply something that's going on in the future, but what's the content of the past. It's perfectly logical that I mentioned these solutions so that they wouldn't apply. It was my corner, and you can think the way you think it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52501	Thank you. Replica, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52502	It's pretty amazing what we're hearing here today. I would like to remind you that we are talking about laws, i.e. the bill and resolutions that open up the way for us to know the Separatist aspirations of the promoter. And then in the midst of the debate, the proponent calls on the state to determine according to the verdict of a shameful, disastrous, drastic verdict handed down by the UN war crimes tribunal to Radovan Karadzic. He also says the government is defined according to the verdict, given the fact that Karadzic participated in genocide. So there was no genocide in Srebrenica. It can be 100 times the UN tribunal has tried something – no, there was no genocide. Those who respect the UN tribunal's rulings, such as Canka, such as on social networks last night, Balša Bozovica, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinovic and other Serbian haters, all that is Serbian. Does this mean that they acknowledge what The Hague tribunal said that Naser Oric was not responsible for the Serb massacre in Srebrenica, in Kravica? Do they think Haradinaj is not responsible for the massacre of Serbs at KIM? Do they think Gotovina is not responsible for the criminal killing of Serbs on Republika Srpska's territory, for "Storm", for "Blash"? It is simply amazing that there is someone who is called a Serb that can meet today after yesterday's day over what is tragic not only for Radovan Karadzic, the hero was and remained and he will honour his life sentence with dignity and death in The Hague tribunal or somewhere where they will take him to serve the sentence, but they do not want to understand that the verdict is actually a condemnation to the Serbian people, Republika Srpska. They're free of resolutions like this and no suggestions like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52503	Your time has passed. Thank you. I'm sorry. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52504	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, the honourable representatives of the proposings, yesterday was not enough time to answer certain things, although this is not a very characteristic subject and at all a whole law-making procedure for the government to answer the question, i.e. the government's representatives, but I must say in the context of the previous story that was 10.15 minutes ago. The question has been raised -- why do units of local self-government have no more money to send out, it was yesterday one about issues, projects, to invest in things that concern development? I want to say two things. The first thing – the greatest genocide that was made in the privatisation and liberalisation of 2000 – was made in the economy of Vojvodina. There is no greater genocide that has been created over the economy of any part of Serbia than it has been created in the Vojvodina area. I think I need to do it 16 times. Now I'll tell you why. Yesterday we discussed the development of Vojvodina since 1972, 1973, 1974, 9175. Just on the potential of a raw material base in agriculture and the construction of processing facilities and everything else, logistics that monitors processing capacities because there is nothing more normal where there is raw materials to try to develop and process. That is exactly what Serbian Vojvodina, an economy within Vojvodina, was mutilated on January 1st 2001 with the destruction of barriers and non-protection and agriculture and processing industries. Everything that fed that Yugoslavia of 22 million inhabitants was mostly located in the Vojvodina area. I'm talking about processing facilities. Of course, I'm going back to the fact that it's natural for the raw materials to be processed, but that decision by the DOS representatives at the time was -- I don't know, I don't know what it would characterize, there's no word in Serbian to which I could describe it. I don't know the word, I'd say - I don't know, I don't know the word. Interest - genocide, whatever you want. On the one hand, genocide and, on the other hand, interest. Let's try one more thing to say – what happened again in 2007, in some local self-government in the Vojvodina area? Such borrowing of these units of local self-government in business banks such as the world has not seen. Verbas, to see their finances then, until two years ago, three, such borrowing. Three centuries so the living can't bring back what's in charge, and for what? No one knows. That's the reason. Less economic activity, almost nothing due to these crazy processes and this other thing. There's one more thing I want to say. There is no development of the Vojvodina without the development of the economy. There is no development of any part of Serbia without the development of the economy. Without that and without that economic potential, we can talk about whatever we want, we can run stories here for 300 days, but if it's not what the government does, it invests in infrastructure to bring as many investors as possible, if it doesn't invest in river restoration, port potential, there's no development of agriculture, and therefore no processing industry. Because of the public, there's one thing I want to say. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a special Regulation in January to encourage the processing sector in the food industry, where mass employment is not only potentiated, but the introduction of new technologies capable of absorbing the raw material potential that exists around us is potential. Why do we have the most problems with individual cultures in Serbia, when we talk about agriculture, agricultural cultures? Well, just because we don't have that processing industry that's been mutilated. And what happened there in 2005, in 2006, continuing this madness? Privatization of agricultural combinations, who knows who, who knows what money, no means of security, and who's back at the loss? The economy of Vojvodina again. And it all starts all the time and ends with it. When we have the potential for economics, of course we will strengthen. That's what's been going on right now for the last two, three years. We have much better finances in both Ruma and Shid and Novi Sad and Zrenjanin. Much better economic potential based on which we can inherit anything, but it's made based on investment in these economic potentials. Nothing could develop 15 years ago, because everything was mutilated.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52505	Thank you. The next speaker is Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52506	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I imagine the National Assembly as the largest representative body to discuss the most important problems of this country and to give specific, concrete legal solutions. I don't think that the priority and burning problem is the one that's on the agenda today, and I think there have been many other topics that are far more important to discuss this highest representative House, but rather the issue of financing the AP Vojvodina. I'm not sure the AP Vojvodina is more at risk financially than other parts of the country. On the contrary, I am sure that there are parts of Serbia that are far more endangered and from which residents are more evicted, especially in southern and eastern Serbia, as well as in western Serbia, than in Vojvodina. And I'm bothered by this jargon, which is constantly potentiated by the proposing representatives, how the duchess and the duchess live there, how the duchess and the duchess and the duchess are emigrated, and I haven't heard any of the other colleagues say they're emigrating Toplicians and Toplicians, South Serbians and South Serbians, Negotinians, Sumadinians, Goldibors and Goldibors, and things like that. I don't know what that potential is, I don't get it. The average unemployment in Vojvodina is about 8% according to statistics from the Statistics Office. In other parts of Serbia, the average unemployment goes up to 40% in the municipalities of Southeast Serbia. More than 600,000 people have moved out of the municipalities of Southeast Serbia in the last 15 years. This House hasn't discussed it once. On the scale of municipalities that have the lowest average profit of 10 seats, seven seats occupy the municipalities of Southeast Serbia. Again, no one in this House, nor in this country, has been particularly concerned about it, although, of course, there are MPs who are constantly pointing to that fact. To whom do we complain from southern Serbia or those from western Serbia to the budget situation in our municipalities, to the state of infrastructure, to, according to us, insufficient support of the state in the area of agriculture or in other areas. According to the data I own from the Agricultural Encouragement Fund, which is about 12.13 billion, depending on the year, more or almost 70% goes to the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Of course, it's natural and logical, the most developed agriculture there is, but I don't see that there's room to complain about it. Transfers to municipalities and cities in Serbia are equal and by methodology and belong to all municipalities and cities in Serbia. So, all municipalities and the territory of the AP Vojvodina receive a proportional amount of money from the state budget, as well as any municipality on the territory of southern Serbia or southeastern Serbia, or eastern Serbia, however you wish. Therefore, these coins are used among other things to finance some capital expenditure, repair roads or whatever in these municipalities, and municipalities from the territory of the AP Vojvodina have the possibility of funding from the province budget as well. So, double funding. Serbia's roads are also fixing roads on the territory of the so-called. Serbia's rope, as well as Vojvodina's territory. The highway is complete, Corridor 10 on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the state will be in charge this year and has begun a project to reconstruct the railway, again first through the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There is a budget fund for capital investment for AP Vojvodina, the state will be in charge of 210m euros to build a fast traffic facility Novi Sad – Ruma – Shabac, etc. The headquarters of some large public enterprises, such as "Srbigas" and NIS, are again on the territory of Vojvodina. No other public enterprise has its headquarters outside Belgrade. I don't see how Vojvodina is more endangered than other parts of Serbia that this is a priority. I agree that Serbia is a centralised state, particularly financially centralised, and that problems need to be addressed by setting out the most vulnerable ones, helping them and forming a final ministry for equal regional development, because this is beyond what is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52507	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52508	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I apologize, I'm going to have to look back on one subject. It seems to me, sir, that you mixed up in 2019 and 2009. I think after zero there should be a unit, for one simple reason, which then may have been 12, 13 billion dollars for agriculture, and now there's 44 and 44 more than 12, 13, and 18. You didn't get a good look. If I have to, I'll give you the data, no problem at all, this second. Everyone can come, it's public and everything is visible. Everything can be seen, there are no secrets. We keep hearing here that the subsidies were seven, eight years older than they are now. Just write me since 17, 18 or 12, 13 is more than 44. That's what my Philip teaches in first grade primary school. Another thing, due to the public, is very often said in public – more subsidies go to Vojvodina than to other parts of Serbia. It's not like that at all. I can also explain. Here's one measure, from a series of dimensions. The marginal support – 65% where we give subsidies, that's all that goes towards eastern, southern, central Serbia. There are 50% subsidies in other places. Young agricultural producers – of 664 paid out, solutions where young farmers get 12,000 euros, 166 are in the Vojvodina area. Again, it may not even be 25% of the total number of claims paid. Don't, please, play with it, these are the things that are dangerous. That's all I'd ask. I'll give you every piece of information at all times and at all times. Once again, 44 is always more than 12 and 18 in each math.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52509	The word is Milan Lapčević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52510	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this exact information, I trust you that they are correct, and of course, I believe and commend that the higher percentage of subsidies for a specific, concrete measure is set aside for marginal areas, I suppose, logical and normal. But you didn't deny me that the total amount of money doesn't go as much as I said. Is 65%, 70%, but surely over half of the total subsidies go to the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Whether it's 44 billion or 54, anyway, but certainly most of the money ends up there. I said I have nothing against it, that's logical, because that's where agriculture is the most developed, but I don't see any reason to complain about it, as I don't see any reason to ask for constant potentials where our money is, and we want more money, and the state of Serbia is funding the construction of the highway, the state of Serbia is funding construction, for example. The National Theatre in Subotica, building a fast track from Belgrade to Budapest, etc. Just one piece of information, for example, that Serbian citizens do not have south of Belgrade, and Vojvodina has 1,200 people working in the RTV Vojvodina system, which has a budget of four billion dinars, most of which comes from the republican budget, two televisions, three radio programmes. I understand, there are national minorities, it is necessary to support this, for which I have always, but I am sorry, is it possible that there is no single, no radio, no television public service for the citizens of the rest of Serbia. We all need to set aside a fee of 150 dinars to fund RTS and RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52511	Thank you. First Nenad Canak, then Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52512	Thank you, dear colleague, for these observations. Just a few things I'd like to explain. First, you just said, "What's the question of where our money is?" First of all, it was never a question, it was always a question of whose money it was, it was something else. Because our misunderstanding with the central authorities is always the same, because we want our money, they want our money, and we can't agree whose money is ours. So there's actually the essence of that money misunderstanding. Secondly, I'm sorry to bother you, but it seems to you that I'm making a point in the speech of moving the Duke. We call ourselves that, what should I do that since I was born taught that I am a Duke, a Serb, of course by birth, a Duchess by the place where I live and that's just it. I don't have any need for some separation from someone else, like my grandfather from Dic was a Serbian. I don't see what's going on here. You mention the highway, you mention the railroad that goes through Vojvodina. You know how, in order to get from Belgrade, let's say, in Pest, if we didn't make a railroad through Vojvodina. It's a state project. To get you anywhere north if you don't make it through the Duke's path, it's also a state project. By reminding me, the highway, let's say, from the Croatian border to the merger with the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, raised the AP Vojvodina, raising a loan that was returning from its own funds. TV formed an AP Vojvodina out of its own resources while it had them, and therefore, in fact, now we are talking about the financing of the AP Vojvodina, about the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. We're not asking for more money, we're asking for less from Vojvodina. So that's just the point, to explain completely what it's really about. So, not the question of asking us to give us something, but to take it less from us. Here, that's the whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52513	Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52514	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I must first of all say a few words for the public, because I simply cannot believe how many are being brought here by individuals, incorrect data. It is not true at all that in the total amount of funds, more goes to the space of Vojvodina. You've mixed the hectare measure and the total subsidy. Of course, by hectares, if we could just look at it one way, there would be more because there's more farmy land in the Vojvodina area. All the other measures are wrong at all. Even in the total amount, since this country potentials the most livestock, fruit growing, wine growing in terms of measure, they go to the space of eastern, central, southern Serbia. Do you know how much of the total budget goes to Vojvodina space? No more than 35% of the total money if that's how you look at it. You've mixed hectares and agriculture. It's not the same thing. Agricultural land and agricultural production are not the same. To deny you in some ways. A year and a half ago, we had a measure for farmers involved in the supply of tractors. Do you know who this measure was most applied to? For orchards, vineyards and vegetables, small agricultural holdings. They're the most in this area I've just talked to, central Serbia, southern Serbia, eastern, west of it all the same. Ninety percent of the money went there. Please don't. I'm from Sremska Mitrovica. If I have to tell you this, please don't do it for the public. Let's move on. A measure of sheepmaking. Ten in Serbia's central, 30 in the Vojvodina area. It's a measure, because there's an undeveloped space here and we need to lift it, to bring in people who want to do agricultural production. Should we move on? I'm sorry, it's not the year you mixed up in '07.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52515	I'll give you a replica and we'll end up slowly around the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52516	Yes, of course, Mr. Canak, in order to get from Belgrade to Novi Sad or Budapest there must be a road, there must be a railroad and no one has anything against it. I just said that as far as I know, the highway is finished, the track is done unlike the highway, i.e. Corridor 10, through the rest of Serbia which is not finished. So again in that business, the priority was Vojvodina. There's a Vojvodina priority again in the railroad restoration. We're not jealous of course, but we just want to say there's no reason, there's no argument for you to be unhappy with. The state will finance, as far as it knows, the construction of a fast traffic station in Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac. That's good. I didn't see that the state would finance a traffic station or rebuild a traffic station through eastern Serbia. From Nis to Kladov you travel for five, six hours, you can't get there because they're bad roads. There are bad roads in Vojvodina, of course, but sorry transfers are the same for all municipalities, plus the rural budget for the Capital Investment Fund. So, what our people would say, double power. I will not, of course, support this law and I think that decentralisation, financial decentralisation needs Serbia, and it is necessary to settle the issue of the most lagging regions as a priority issue, and later on for all others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52517	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52518	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extremely important topic on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. In his exhaustive presentation, the Proposer gave a broader historical picture when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina, which reads various historical data on the formation and formation of the Vojvodina in the Habsburg monarchy. I agree with some data, not some. When it comes to the Great National Assembly in Sremski Karlovci in 1848, when Serbian Vojvodina or the Serbian Duchy was declared, which included Banat, Baka, Baranja and Srem, all over Srem. The large National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Banat, Bačka and Baranja in 1918, which decided to join the Kingdom of Serbia, and the day before the Srema Assembly on 24 November, if I am not mistaken, has already made the same decision and a whole series of other historical events that happened in our history, when it comes to these areas. I'm not going to comment on his political views when it comes to more recent events in our history, so in the late 1970s, 1990s, etc., I'm just going to say that the differences between us are huge. They're really huge. He even mentioned some violent ethnic changes that were allegedly carried out on the territory of Vojvodina. I think even the term for ethnic cleansing or ethnic engineering or something like that is crazy, but it's already his political attitude, a well-known political attitude, and I don't want to use this opportunity, or this topic to bring it down to day politics. Somehow, he feels that his favorite part of our history is that of 1945 and then the concept of the AP Vojvodina, which was regulated on July 31st 1945, which at the Third Session of AVNOJ and legal, and especially in 1974, when the Constitution of the AP Vojvodina practically won the status of a federal entity in the then-SFRJ with elements of statehood. It's a key moment for him here. It's his idea of leadership, where he draws his political idea. That's where we get the key difference between him and me. So, for me in 1918, this crucial moment, this most bright moment that represents an association, whenever anyone mentions the autonomy of Vojvodina, is for me in 1918, and for Chanka it's 1945. But I cannot ask the question then – where is Baranja in his 1945 Vojvodina? Where did Baranja go? Where did the pieces of Srema of this Duke go? By 1945 they were, and in 1945 they suddenly didn't exist anymore. Someone erased them. Also, I'm not someone who boasts unspeakably so-called. "Joghurt Revolution" and the essential abolition of the autonomy of Vojvodina. History will certainly give its judgment about so-called. "Joghurt Revolution". But I can't help but ask the question – was it a sustainable state before that? Was it realistic that then-Vojvodina, such a Vojvodina, had its own constitution, presidency, constitutional court, supreme court, all possible elements of statehood? Was that sustainable? I don't think so. When it comes to the motion for a resolution, it is absolutely unacceptable. In a whole series of members of this proposal, there are things that are absolutely out of place and not acceptable. The 1st member says that Vojvodina must never be reduced to the position of the region, to which the central government will transfer its rights and duties according to the current political majority. So this is absolutely pointless. The Duchess is not what it says here. So it's not under the Constitution. Namely, in Article 182. point 1. The Constitution stipulates that autonomous provinces of the Autonomous Territorial Community are established by the Constitution, in which citizens exercise the right to province autonomy, while Article 183(1) requires that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and their statutes, regulate the jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work of bodies and services they establish. Furthermore, Article 2 says -- the upcoming change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must aim to build up the rule of law and state order based on the experience of modern democratic states. So this is also an absolutely unnecessary formulation, because again with the Constitution, the current Constitution, Article 1, states that the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. So this is absolutely unnecessary, too. Needless is the need to align the Republic of Serbia with the modern democratic states, for the simple reason it is already limited by the Constitution. The competencies, in Article 3, say – the responsibilities of Vojvodina without financial resources through which they will be fully realised mean very little, and the Republic of Serbia will continue to work to ensure that Vojvodina returns the largest part of the public income collected in its territory. So this is already guaranteed by the existing, valid Constitution, and this is Article 184. The constitution, which is prescribed that an autonomous province has original income to finance its competences. This is where we come to Article 4, where it says – the Republic of Serbia must focus its forces on reducing the wave of emigration of young Vojvodina. So this is also excessive and unnecessary, because there is already a co-ordination body to monitor economic migration flows in the Republic of Serbia, whose responsibility is to direct the work of the authorities of the state administration, in order to see the situation in the area of economic migration and to find solutions to improve this area. Except it's unnecessary, and it's discriminatory. So, let's prevent the departure of young Vojvodina, and what we care whether young people leave other parts of Serbia, whether young people leave the South, the West, the East, is only important to prevent the departure of young people from Vojvodina. So, for all of these reasons, it is absolutely unacceptable for the SNS parliamentary group and we, of course, will vote against it, as we have heard from our head of Parliament. In the spirit of all that I have said so far, I would conclude my speech with a quote, that is, a copy of the speech of the great Yasha Tomic, at the Grand National Assembly of Serbs, Bunjevac and other Slovenians in Banat, Bačka and Baranja, and in Novi Sad, which reads: "Kosovo martyrs! Happy release! I've never been as shaken in my life as I am right now. And I can see on your face that you're so shaken up too. We're not alone. Can't it be that you can't see that there's a Serbian five hundred-year history in this hall, so far sad and now bright and smiling? Could it be that you don't see in the air our great dead halls here, their spirit? Could it not be that you too see the white snowflakes strike on the windows of this hall, and in these snowflakes is the spirit of those who have not yet been born, and who will yet come, the spirit of our future? We are not alone here today." Speaking of a decision to join Serbia, Jasa Tomic says: "We did right? If we ask the heart, they will say, "You have done according to me, and if we ask your mind, she will say the same thing to you." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52519	Thank you. The word is Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52520	Dear colleague, thank you for your interventions, since they gave me a chance to explain a few things. First, you asked where Baranja went and the parts of Srem, if I understood you correctly, since 1945. Did I get the question right? I don't want to deal with this issue right now, because if I were to start dealing with this issue, then we're undoing the legitimate and legal order of that time that has drawn the limits of what they are, the unfair as they are, by taking away Vojvodina Baranja, the parts of Srem, etc. However, I will remind you that such things have happened since World War II, that, let's say, the entire area of the city of Belgrade where Novi Belgrade is now, for example, part of Vojvodina, that part of the Pančeva Rit has also become the territory of the city of Belgrade and is excluded from the territorial autonomy of the AP Vojvodina. So, I could ask the same kind of question where this or that went away. But I'm saying I don't want to do it right now. Your issue of sustainability of the 1974 Constitution, of course it was not sustainable and therefore constitutional changes were foreseen, constitutional amendments. Again, it was before so many countries in the past that it was simple, in a few and anachronous to do so, but I will remind you, all constitutional amendments were already agreed to amend it and to adapt the Constitution to a more sustainable practice and then there was a famous sentence, Slobodan Milosevic, constitutionally or unconstitutionally, on the streets or in forums, but we will achieve our goal. It is precisely this terrible sentence, which identifies constitutionally and unconstitutionally, street and forums, that led to the disaster that followed. I think you're unfair, when you say we don't care about moving out of other parts of Serbia and all we talk about is Vojvodina. The reason is, only the fact that today is the agenda of the Vojvodina Resolution and the Law on the financing of the Vojvodina. You quoted Article 184, and let us read it: “The AP has the original income to fund its competences, ” but the following paragraph reads: “The type and height of the original income of the Autonomous provinces is determined by law. ” We are now talking about this law, and it is this law that is the theme of this session, to define it, to specify and thus end, practically, to round up this Constitution that was to be rounded on December 31st, 2008. So, in that light, I thank you, for your questions, but I repeat, 1945, we only take because it was after World War II and that the internationally recognised Assembly of the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia made decisions that I spoke about earlier. There's no other reason. As far as Yasha Tomic is concerned, Novi Sad is one of the few cities, if not the only ones in the world who have a street and a boulevard of murderers. I don't know if you know about that. After Jasa Tomic slaughtered Miso Dimitrijevic, and in Novi Sad you have Bulevar Yasa Tomic and Miš Dimitrijevic Street. So, our history is full of controversy, so I would not exactly quote the poetic inspiration of Yash Tomic, and to lose sight and certain anti-Semitic elements of the same work, Jaša Tomic. So if we were to go too far in history, then we'd find a lot of different things that maybe we wouldn't be, that would totally burden us with something that doesn't matter at this time. During this time, I suppose the most important thing is that the state of Serbia is being settled, as a modern European state and in this light of proposals, so I don't think it's the only option, but the proposals of decentralisation, Mr. Martinovic and I, we didn't get to finish our conversation yesterday, but since I saw that you applied for the debate, I think we'll continue it on the subject of certain issues that Mr. Martinovic asked me, which are completely legitimate and I can't wait to answer them. In terms of whether Serbia should be decentralised, whether it should be a complex state, which I think it should be, whether it should be a federal state, I think it should be federal in a way, such as Austria, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, in a way that would contribute to internal cohesion and a wider base of responsibility for the whole country, because like this when the state hangs on to one man, as it was in Slobodan Milosevic, or in the case of Zoran Djindjic, or Boris Tadic, or today Alexander Vukic, or tomorrow I don't already know who, we have a permanent one and the same little changed structure in a personal sense, but essentially we can't get rid of one of the same way of thinking, and so I'm running the topic, I don't even claim that it's possible for the best of the people to be together, but the best of the people being able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do the best to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to That's exactly what I wanted to say. So thank you for the chance to give these interventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52521	Alexander Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52522	Well, I thank you, too, Mr. Canak, for allowing me to continue the discussion yesterday. It is now quite clear, in fact, that you are actually in favour of changing the state order of the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia ceases to be a unitary state, and becomes federal. That means that you don't really want Vojvodina to be an autonomous province, but to be a federal unit, or to be a republic. In that sense, your concept of the bill and your concept of the Vojvodina resolution is completely deplaced, because you are not going to expand the degree of autonomy, you want to change Serbia's constitutional system and turn Serbia from the unitary state into federal. It's an idea that's not originally yours. That idea's been going on for quite a while. It was also installed in the 1974 Constitution, and it was embedded in that decision that you are referring to from 1945. But what SNS thinks of your idea is next. First, Serbia is too small to be divided into federal units, for too long Serbia has been divided, the SNS wants Serbia to be the queen of all Serbs. We need Serbs to agree and gather, because times are extremely difficult, and it is not time to share. As for, and of course, I am convinced that the vast majority of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina do not share your idea that Serbia should be a federally arranged state, and that Vojvodina should be given the status of a federal unit. As far as Yasha Tomic is concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52523	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52524	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52525	Here you go, Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52526	Dear Mr. Martinovic, yes, I want this country's constitutional system changed and I want its constitutional arrangement changed. That's not at all controversial. This still does not mean that this law that we are talking about is not in accordance with this Constitution and does not work on the fact that this Constitution is complemented in the way that I am prescribing this Constitution. So we're not here to talk about it, I guess, at least, what is the political program that I stand for and what are the ideas that I stand for, because it's totally legal and legitimate to stand up for a change in the constitutional system. What is completely illegal and illegal is to use force to change the constitutional system, and in that light this is the light where we're going to talk about it all. That's the first thing. The other thing is, you're talking about Serbia not being divided. I agree with you more than I agree with you. And so use the expression divided, when it comes to territorial organization, gives one image that is not in my opinion quite accurate. Why not try instead of "divided" to use the term "organized"? Organized as a federal state, not divided as a federal state. The small, medium level of government in European standards is two million inhabitants. Two million people, and for this Serbia is ideal to be organised, because then with such an organization you would lose every story about the exploitation of one part of Serbia by the other, you would lose your story about some unclean accounts. People would have a clear picture of what's going on in the space they live in, much clearer than this and thus encourage production, investment and everything else that directly affects people's lives in that space. You wouldn't care for some guy, I might use an inadequate one, but not quite the wrong expression, a slurry to the central authorities. I think in that light, at least think about what I'm saying is useful as one type of confrontation, not conflicting, facing and conflicting different opinions. If we do not have different opinions through which we will get the best results, then we will be in a position to simply collapse the political system, that this Assembly, the most legislative body, loses its credibility, as at some point has already begun to happen, for which reasons, I will not enter at all, but it must not be allowed. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the most legislative body to represent the citizens of this country, all citizens. All citizens must be represented in it. That's my deepest confidence. The totalitarian regimes of the congregation are the right place where no other opinion can be expressed, but only each other will be touched. All together tap once. That's what this congregation, in my deep opinion, is, and I'm sure it can't become yours either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52527	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52528	I agree with you, Mr. Canak. You're absolutely right. So, the National Assembly is the only place where political representatives of different political parties should discuss and discuss topics that are socially relevant. I want to note that both you and yesterday have shown a high level of political responsibility and political awareness, because you do not belong to those who think that the government is changing on the street and that politics consists of you breaking into the RTS motor saws or threatening to rape the Prime Minister. So I'm glad you're different from those, and you show that there are people in Serbia who can talk rationally even though they don't feel the same way about everything. What I'm trying to say is that the same way you talk to citizens every day and I didn't get the impression that citizens in Vojvodina, or that citizens in any part of Serbia want to change the state order of the Republic of Serbia. What it takes for citizens in Subotica, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, and in Kosovo Mitrovica is to have more factories, to have more investments, to have more jobs, to have more quality hospitals, better quality schools, that we can make more money, to have better roads, better railways. It is a concept of Serbia advocated by the SNS and it is a concept that both President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia consistently represent. Your idea that Serbia should be federalized only assures me that I was right yesterday when I said that you are, in fact, looking at the rest of the SFRY in this current Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52529	Thank you. Nenad Canak: Replica. ) The word has a folk messenger, Nenad Canak. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52530	One thing, just to be clear. The government doesn't change on the street. Anyone who calls for a change of government on the street is calling for a civil war. That's perfectly clear, and I won't participate in that kind of thing. The only two times in Serbia's recent history that made sense was when citizens protested for stealing elections and protested in the protection of election results. Therefore, after the elections in the protection of election results, there is no protest to be made in place of the elections. However, I wouldn't want this to turn into a story about protests, because I think this topic we opened, the topic of the Vojvodina Resolution and the theme of the Law on the financing of APV are topics that are extremely important, which were constantly in the shadow of some day-to-day political misunderstandings. To open topics that are essential and that will trigger political life further, I think it is extremely important and I think this, thanks to the will of the majority of the possibility to put on the agenda everything we are talking about, including the question, if necessary, of some new resolution on Kosovo. Why not, although I personally participated in a series of discussions of this type and I must say that these resolutions were many and their results were relatively small. I hope this motion on the Vojvodina resolution and the Vojvodina financing law will not experience that fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52531	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52532	So, Mr. Canak, it is clear that we are fundamentally different eye, not only about the concept of Vojvodina, but also about the concept of Serbia's state order. We believe that Serbia should be a single state, you think it should be federal. The idea itself is legitimate. However, I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia, this idea of yours, will not accept because the Serbian experience with federal state planning was not very historicly pleasant for our people. It turns out that the federal state office after the war socialist Yugoslavia has actually made it possible for the state to get and those who in modern history did not get and who only viewed the same Yugoslavia as a transit facility, as a one-way station until they reach their independent states. It was a concept of Croatian communists, Slovenian communists, Macedonians, Montenegrins, and a part of the Vojvodina. So all of them, in Yugoslavia, were just looking at a temporary state that would allow them to one day create their own state. Remember, Slovenian communists, Milan Kucan, made their own Slovenia. The independent Croatia was built by Tito's general, Franjo Tudjman. Macedonia's stand-alone was built by Kiro Gligorov, a senior communist official and federal and Macedonian. They didn't break Yugoslavia. As you say, nationalists, Yugoslavia has been broken by communists, no matter how strange it may seem to you now. Let me just answer that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52533	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52534	There's only one thing you need to take care of. What you've listed are all national states. In Serbia, the federal organisation is not the point of organising Serbia on national grounds, but in the historical-geographical region. So it's not the idea to build some ethnic boundaries, it's the fact that they're creating rounded regional continents where each one of them has the same people, and that's the point. In this way you would have more and more of these factories and more responsibility for what is happening in a space that the middle level of government can far better administer. That's the difference in our view of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52535	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52536	I thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. I was elected from the SNS list as a representative of the United Peasants' Party. Otherwise, I will immediately say that as a MP, I will not support the proposal of these laws. They've talked about it before. That is what my colleague, representative of the Peasant Party Marijan Risticevic, also spoke of. The history of our country, the creation of our country and all that, we come to the same, and that is a sprawl. The Serbian persuasion created, defended and fed our country. It is the same for us in southeastern Serbia and it is the same for you, in our Serbia, in Vojvodina. It's the same everywhere, but some things that have been done back a few years, you can see the difference, you can see the improvement in a lot of things. In particular, let's remember in 2000, when there was a big riot on the street, when there were major problems, and then privatisation was created, where little remains of the Serbian bombing were destroyed. Therefore, all of us who are now here want to talk about problems like this in the congregation, how to solve problems. We want to be here in the Assembly, for which the people have given us support, all the things that are bad to try to settle in a better way, not to the harm of the people living in Vojvodina, not to the harm of the people living here in Belgrade, and not to the people living in southeastern Serbia. In my neighborhood, it is called “the arm of another person’s itch does not scratch. ” This is what I want to talk about, and I expect that in the next period, together with our Minister of Agriculture and all of you here, we will talk about problems and solving the very status of our villages, how to save our villages, how and how to help to improve our lives in villages, how and how to help people stay alive in Svrelig, and Gajino Han, both in the White Palanca and in Babusnica. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of Serbia are working on it, but we need to talk more about it now and we need to put more emphasis on it. I think it's north of Serbia, that Vojvodina is a little more ahead of us in southeast Serbia. In particular, for example, problems are similar with us and in Vojvodina, but our problems are much greater. With us, the population of old people is much bigger. Young people who stay in the country... (President: Time. Thanks again. I'm not voting for the bill of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52537	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica to Mr Cank. I gave my word to Mr. Milletic. I didn't notice you picking up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52538	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Just for a little while. Mr. Canak, you're talking about some middle-level government, and when you divide the state into federal units or, as you say, when you organize the state as a Federation, here, to express yourself in your terminology, then the federal unit is not the middle level of power. The middle level of government is what you have in Italy, Spain, Belgium, and these are regions. Now I hear from you that you want a step further. You don't want a regionally decorated state, you want a federally arranged state. That's two completely... Take care of one thing. A country that has regions is still a unitary state. A state that has federal units, it's not a unitary state, it's complex. So that's the fundamental difference between the regional state, and regions are the middle level of government and the federal state that has federal units. Federal units aren't the middle level of government. That's one thing. Another thing, you say, we'll have more factories if Serbia is a federally arranged state. Well, who brought all these factories into this and this unique Serbia? Well, he brought Alexander Vukic most of all, to be completely honest, both in Vojvodina and in Belgrade, both in central Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Had it not been for his activities, above all as Prime Minister and today as President of the Republic, a large number of factories in Serbia would not have been opened and Alexander Vukic had never taken care of whether the factory would be opened in Vojvodina, whether it would be opened in Kragujevac, Nis, Vranja or anywhere else, because both Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica, and Belgrade, and Nis, both Kragujevac and Kosovo Mitrovica in Serbia. That's the fundamental difference between our sighting and yours. So Serbia can develop economically, we have shown it in practice, not to change its state order.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52539	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. That's what caution does. I have to read it officially. I see the debate is very interesting. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is almost no more grateful subject than this topic has been run by a proposing representative. The promoter, unfortunately, does not attend the meeting of the Assembly, but someone took the right to present her original proposal to us here in oral and written form. Too bad he's not a representative of the motionary, because it would be interesting to watch, compete and compete here who's a major autonomous, whether representatives of the Democratic Party or representatives of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. The race lasts from a long time ago and the question is whether and how it will end. As far as I have information, and to inform the public, most likely one of the proposings, which would say the original plagiarist, will move into the ranks of the Social Democrats League, and there will be programme and political reconciliation, just as they differ in their political views when it comes to the political and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Why is this subject grateful? Because in one part of Serbia called AP Vojvodina, telling a story on the subject – we would be better off if we had a higher degree of autonomy, always causing certain reactions, and they are seen in a number of votes for one who advocates a better future or brighter days if there is a greater independence of Vojvodina. Here, in this proposal or the plagiarism of the proposal, several questions are raised that deserve to be answered in any case or tried to answer. The first question is why was the Constitution not respected, the constitutional provision of Article 184, which was adopted in 2006, which obliges the adoption by 2008 of a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina? The answer is asked of us who are in this congregation who have absolutely nothing to do with the decisions that were made during that period. At that time, the absolute government had DS at the republican level and its coalition partners. In the province's parliament, the government consisted of DS, LSDV and their coalition partners and with them was what the people would say – both the knife and the cakes were. Why didn't they follow the Constitution and pass the financing law? Maybe to look for part of the answer in the fact that they were over-occupied by much more important, much more important, for them, for their work, and that's the creation of so-called. The statute of the AP Vojvodina or, more specifically, the creation, writing, semi-constitution, the half-states of the Vojvodina. Why do we claim this, Serbian radicals? Well, because after October 5th, we already had a Simeon law that was passed in a very, very strange way. Adopted on the basis of a political agreement, an omnibus law passed by the agreement of Nenad Canak and Zoran Djindjic, and imagine what a degree of democracy is. The two of them made a deal. Zoran Djindjic, as a representative of the then executive authority and president of the DS, in order to satisfy his coalition partner's political appetites, said -- this law will be passed. This law is in some way the beginning of the independence of the AP Vojvodina. A basic law was later proposed, which was due to be considered in 2003. For those who were not sent, just to remind them, the legislator, the author, the man behind it, with all his political and other capacities, was Nenad Canak. He called it basic law. First, did someone write it, but it's your handwriting, Mr. Canak. You know, and how recognizable your handwriting is. The basic law was characteristic of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1949, in fact it was the second name for the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, and this was also meant to have a function as the Constitution or future constitution of the AP Vojvodina. What was proposed? More independence has been proposed in the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It went so far as to give up one possibility to have a central bank. Why hasn't this law been passed? A set of random circumstances, because there was an assassination on Zoran Djindjic and there was a delay. The Democratic Party did not want to adopt this basic law that would apply to the AP Vojvodina and there was simply a prolonged adoption of any act that would define greater independence of the AP Vojvodina. In 2008, in addition to this job relating to the preparation of the new statute, the DS all its capacities was engaged in breaking the SRS. Why? Because it was primarily their political assessment, and it was a political assessment of those who gave them orders. Since 2000, the assessment of Western countries has been that no legal project, no idea that is related to both Kosovo and Metohija, and especially to Vojvodina, will be easy because the SRS was also a significant and strong political factor on Serbia's political scene, and in particular the SRS was both strong and significant as a political party in the AP Vojvodina area. And that was the main task they were dealing with from the DS and their coalition partners. What's the final outcome? The final outcome is that when the SRS was broken, it was approached by the adoption of the new Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The Serbian Radical Party, burdened with its internal problems, could not adequately oppose, more specifically, had not had enough power, had not enough MPs to prevent the adoption of this statute at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At that time in the SRS and how important the people who are now in the SNS played, and you may have noticed that during yesterday, some of them fully repeated the speech they had in the year when the debate was being held in the National Assembly of the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina, with many arguments, with a number of facts, clearly identified the danger of adopting the anti-constitutional statute of the AP Vojvodina. It happened that the Constitutional Court annulled that act or part of its act or its contents that was against it. I only remind you that in that statute it is foreseen that Vojvodina even has a president, that Novi Sad is the capital, that what is unfortunately left of Vojvodina also has a Prime Minister. Where are these systems, parallel systems to function that in one part of Serbia you have a Prime Minister and that at the level of central government you have a Prime Minister? It's rarely where you'll find it except in Serbia, but it was the satisfaction of political appetites. What's the argument here? Here is an argument that if you approach this business, then you will live much better in what they say "sometimes rich in Vojvodina". Let's get out of these delusions sometime. The participants of all the events of the 1970s, bearers of political activity, many of them admitted that the 1970s were recorded as saying as the golden years of prosperity on the basis of foreign loans, based on something that they later accepted as an additional burden on and thus exhausted, tortured and robbed economies of the Republic of Serbia. There with these delusions should be stopped. We're not saying that the Vojvodina wasn't developed agriculturally, but not as they show it and how they show some data here in parallel. Here's one piece of information, when it comes to agriculture, when it comes to wheat production, this is data that is still from the SRJ period, then Vojvodina produced a million and 100,000 tonnes of wheat, and the rest, to be said, of Serbia's 900 thousand tonnes of wheat. Just to be clear, to feed the entire population with stock reserves was necessary for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 800,000 tonnes of wheat. This is a relevant indicator, this is official data from the Serbian Economy, which, based on the monitoring, clearly shows the difference of some 200,000 tonnes of wheat. Nothing further is about other agricultural cultures. Therefore, do not be fooled to say by replacing the thesis that Vojvodina, as some would say, feeds Serbia. No, I don't. Equally, Serbia participates in all its parts, and when it comes to the food industry and when it comes to agriculture and there is no need for manipulation, there is no need. Manipulating only serves so that they naive, once again, can be further deceived. Let's just remember in 2000 after October 5, what did the Doss-owned Vojvodina say? They said -- when we came to power, much better would be the peasant in Vojvodina, generally in Serbia, but the accent was placed on Vojvodina. What happened to the peasant? The following happened, they told him – Since your old machinery is, you have to renew the machinery to process your country with modern methods. In order to buy new machinery, the farmer had to be in charge, to raise the loan, right? He left, pawned his property as a mortgage, bought new tractors, most of all the Jongir tractors because IMT was completely destroyed, there was no domestic tractor production, and what happened? The first time a peasant had to surrender his yearbook, so he could collect some income to pay credit-based payments, then the ransom price fell and the farmer saw that he simply fell from year to year into debt, couldn't take it anymore, he was entering debt slavery. What's left? All he has left to do is do the job he knows best, which is to process the country. To whom? Well, in the case of tycoons that are close to DOS, which in the meantime bought cooperatives and agricultural combinations and sugars, all of which paid several euros in total. Just remember the sugar-related affair. Sugar in the Caves was paid three euros, with the buyer taking the obligation to settle his debts to the state. The government, meanwhile, adopts a regulation and releases a new buyer of all obligations to the state and in fact one sugar factory in the Caves has been bought for three euros. They're your tycoons. They're these new rich people, they're those farm lovers who knew about the land from agriculture just as much as they have land in pots at their homes. What's going on next? They brought into debt slavery of peasants in Vojvodina. Now that concern for the peasant, that concern for the worker is expressed at the moment he feels that there might possibly be a new election. The new elections should provide a realistic picture of the mood and the support of individual political parties. We in the SRS clearly warn that this is the way in which the election campaigns led by some at the expense of the part of the Serbian population living in the autonomous province have tragic consequences, and they are seen in the next one – that we will achieve such duality within the citizens of Serbia that those living in the AP Vojvodina area will be jealous or envious of those living in other parts of Serbia. What's jealous about? Because they are as poor and poor as they are in other parts of Serbia. Why would he be jealous or why would he be a giddy man living in Novi Sad on someone who lives in Belgrade? Because he lives equally or equally miserable, poor, jobless and without adequate income. Now, that's a danger that hides in such or similar suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52541	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52542	Madam President, Mr Minister, before I begin to discuss the proposal for a resolution on Vojvodina, I would like to say, given that the public of Serbia is really in a position to wonder why there is a debate on Vojvodina and whether there is a problem. Yes, there is no problem, Vojvodina, there is no duchy question, there is nothing that would point to a particular crisis at the moment when it comes to the situation in Vojvodina. Serbia has far more serious challenges concerning external pressures when it comes to resolving Kosovo or disowning its policies in line with national state interests or the challenges of internal pressures to change government by violence. But there is no such thing as the Duke's question. In this case, fellow MPs from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina precisely in certain parts of the preamble to this resolution suggest that they want to see this issue as a problem or are implicitly threatening as a problem. That is how one sentence says that the Vojvodina issue must be treated as a democratic issue within which Vojvodina is not a problem. What does it mean to be treated like a democratic question? Is there a problem with democracy in Vojvodina? Is there violence in Vojvodina? Is there a threat to human rights when you are so explicitly saying that Vojvodina is a democratic issue? This is a certain threat, because you're suggesting that you'll be making a problem out of it. Mr. Canak said at one point that we should not discuss political programmes here, but respect the Constitution. Mr. Canak, the resolution is by its nature an act of political nature. It contains the essence of your political programme here, and it is good that, through the discussion you had with the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic has cleared up this confusion that you have made in this motion for a resolution. You have spoken in several places about autonomy, that Vojvodina should achieve real autonomy, that the province of Vojvodina has entered into the constitution, as you say, of the Federal Republic of Serbia. There has never been a Federal Republic of Serbia. It's an absolute lie. Serbia has never been a Federation. Read the preamble to the resolution where you said Vojvodina joined the Federal Republic of Serbia. The important question I want to ask here is that it is irresistible through certain formulations, which are not at all a place in this text, indicates that there is one long finger from the Brussels administration that has interfered here to make these formulations. What does Serbia's common foreign policy have to do with the EU in terms of the works of the Republic of Serbia or, if you want to say, that as part of this, the Federal Republic of Serbia is treated as someone who can lead or influence independent politics, the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia? I remind you that such European initiatives are nothing new. Some European officials came here to Serbia and offered us or threatened to open internal issues, such as Jelko Kacin in 2013, who literally said in the middle of Belgrade, that it was time to open the issue of the constitutional and legal position of Vojvodina. Who is he that regulates internal affairs and state planning? Let me remind you that in 2017, by adopting a certain report and a resolution on the Republic of Serbia, the European Parliament threatened the authorities in Serbia not to reduce the achieved autonomy of Vojvodina. Who is the European Parliament to regulate the constitutional position of certain parts of the Republic of Serbia? That's why what you wrote about European foreign security policy in principle explained your controversy with Martinovica. Yes, you are to make Vojvodina a federal unit that will affect foreign policy. That's why this is deeply unconstitutional. Many of my colleagues have spoken of you calling for the position of Vojvodina, in fact, your policy is based on the revolutionary decisions of the communist government in 1945. The concept of your autonomy is the concept of communist power. This resolution of yours can be absolutely defined as communist revisionism. You're trying to restore communist ideology, communist concepts to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying that by accident. When you talk about the 1974 Constitution being overcome, that it is no longer in circulation, I remind you that you and your party organized the main committees and round tables where you celebrated the anniversary of the 1974 Constitution. Am I right? You said that the degree of autonomy of the Vojvodina was fully achieved by the 1974 Constitution. The 1974 Constitution with this whole text. It is communist ideology that inspired you to return to the 1974 solutions, which were devastating and disastrous for the Republic of Serbia. There is no worse example in political history and a destructive role than Serbian communists had since 1945. They don't need to be returned to their ideas. You are referring to the May 2013 Declaration on the Protection of Constitutional and Legal Rights of the AP Vojvodina. That Declaration was brought by the same Assembly that passed the anti-constitutional status that was brought down in the Constitutional Court, and here you are saying that the motion for this resolution was constitutional. He's deeply unconstitutional. By the very act that you are referring to this Declaration. Mr. Canak, regardless of the formulations, to the floscules, to everything you have said here, of course, arguing that Vojvodina as autonomy has legislative, executive and judicial authority, an excellent controversy opened by Mr. Martinovic, find me a case of middle-level authority that has judicial authority. It's clear what's behind this document of yours. Behind this document of yours are those passports you printed and clearly defined as Vojvodina's independent state. This would only be the first step if these passports were realized, and we are convinced that there is no will, political will, or political majority in the National Assembly that will allow these passports, and they are your political programme, ever become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52543	The word is Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52544	Thank you for giving me a chance to explain this. You're absolutely right, this is a writing mistake, this is absolutely incorrect. I think the delusion, which I have now discussed with my colleagues, reads that, as such, she entered into the Federal Republic of Serbia on July 31st 1945. Not true, but part of the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, both were done because of the discontinuity I was talking about. You're absolutely right. Once again, I apologize for the mistake of printing. As for the celebration of the 1974 Constitution, marking the passage of the 1974 Constitution to accuse us of being some kind of communist auditist would be the same as if someone said that all those who marked the accession of Vojvodina to Serbia in 1918 were royalists, since it entered the Kingdom of Serbia. It just doesn't have anything to do with each other. The 1974 constitution is the only constitution that Vojvodina ever had and the reason for that marking, to say the word, is a symbolic type, and it has nothing to do with ideology because, I will remind you, as I have already spoken to the gentleman in the debate for a moment, this constitution was unsustainable, it had to change and there was nothing controversial about it. He was a constitution that was fundamentally undemocratic and as such had no chance to survive on how long a deadline. Too detailed, I repeat, with the president's name written in the Constitution. These are really amazing things. That's not the point. The point is that this constitution has enabled a type of development of the AP Vojvodina, which is considered in the development sense of the Golden Age of Vojvodina, and in this light only works, and no ideology whatsoever. As far as the printing of these passports is concerned, it is interesting that one propaganda book was made in the model of Serbia's passports printed by the DSS at the time. The Democratic Party of Serbia made Serbia's first passport and then there were various brochures on what Serbia should look like and then some of our members set up this type of propaganda document. So we did this, you can see where it says – the Constitution of Vojvodina, and in fact full of titles, fine letters – when Vojvodina had, so it says, the Constitution of Vojvodina then it happened and so on. If you see this book, look at what it says and what it says. You'll get one on a gift. Look inside. You have very useful weather data from 1974 to 1988, which are interesting as historical data, where, I repeat, nowadays it does not have some great value in political terms, but it is convenient to recall how much a type of autonomy in making decisions in a commercial sense can be useful for some space. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52545	Replica, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52546	Thank you, Madam President. When you talk about the 1974 Constitution, what you have drawn as the main message, as the main essence, is the essence of this debate today, is that Vojvodina is returned to the legislative, executive and judicial authority, the police and tax administration. It's a state, Mr. Canak. The judiciary is a state. Find me a midlevel government today, whether there's a regional government in Italy or Spain, whether there's a federal government. The 1974 Constitution inspired you to go through the creation of the state, as if constitutional changes had not occurred in Vojvodina, it would have probably, as the other republics of the former Yugoslavia, seceded with the state of the institutions and competences they had. Since you have advocated the executive judicial authority, no one has ever understood it as a joke in Serbia, when you began to print the passport of Vojvodina. They also print Catalonia's passports with which separatists you seem to work well together and support each other. They want to separate themselves from Spain. Your representatives are going to support them in the Barcelona protests, and we in Serbia now need to be naive because of such political attitudes and that we think that these resolutions and the creation in the Serbian public of the problem of Vojvodina, which does not exist, Vojvodina has its own government, its own assembly, its own institutions that work for the benefit of the people of Vojvodina, Serbia has, we are now suddenly building an atmosphere that there is a Vojvodina issue. Of course, when you see your flags tied to the flags of Catalonia, when you see passports, what Serbs can think except that there is a riot or some secession. One such proposal shows an announcement of possible steps that would lead to separation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52547	The word is Nenad Canak. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52548	I'm really surprised if anyone can think of a propaganda book on which according to the model of a Serbian passport printed by the DSS, made, joked for, a booklet where it says - passport and inside are software documents. It has to be very paranoid to make more of it than it is. On the other hand, you mentioned that this poses some kind of problem for the Vojvodina, and I repeat once again that there is no issue of the Vojvodina, there is a question of the Vojvodina. That duchy question is no question of national or ethnic or anything like that. The issue of Vojvodina is the issue of Serbia's democratic arrangement. I am deeply convinced of that, and that is why we have offered this resolution for debate in the Assembly, and where to discuss such matters if not in the Assembly. That's the whole question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52549	The word is Jovan Papalić. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52550	Let me add, Mr. Canak, as you've set up, here it says here, you didn't ask the Vojvodina as a question, but the Vojvodina as a problem. Read the preamble. Read page 3 of the preamble. You're saying that Vojvodina must be treated as a democratic issue. It has always been treated as a democratic issue because the Constitution has been brought democratic, because all the laws that came from the Constitution regarding the Vojvodina bring democratically, and then you speak – within that, Vojvodina is not a problem. Where's the Duke's problem? You point out that the Duke's problem is, and that's why this controversy here. The issue of constitutional change is a legitimate issue, but if you raise the issue that it is a problem, then the question arises – which is why and what initiatives are behind the opening of this as a problem when at the same time you introduce some solutions that have no place in this text regarding European integration, European foreign policy, the state-of-the-art policies of Serbia. You have imposed the subject of Vojvodina as a problem, and that is why we intervened, not as a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52551	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52552	I thank the president. I would like to express my immediate satisfaction that we have the opportunity to discuss and discuss a paraxelance to a political topic such as the proposal put forward by the promoter. Mr. Canak, I am pleased that this debate is being held at a civilized and decent level and manner and I think all these discussions should be conducted just like that. On the other hand, all those who consider this discussion a farce, and consider this session a farce, apparently amputated themselves from democracy and implanted themselves in dissociation, violence and all that we certainly will never allow, and what they have manifested here in this home. When it comes to the proposal we're discussing from these two points of the agenda, Mr. Canak, I would only ask you to listen carefully to something that seems important to me and what my predecessors have suggested, and I'm going to end up in about what direction we're criticizing. There is something absolutely in which we absolutely agree and there is something in which we disagree deeply. We agree that Vojvodina should have autonomy, we disagree on the scale and essence of that autonomy. And it's a deep dissension and it's obvious, especially after your declaration today at the hearing, when it's extremely open and clearly specified your position on the federalization of the state. I think that question on your part is definitely settled now. What's not solved, I think, without the intention of being misunderstood, because I don't want to be offensive in any way, is the absolute indeterminateness of what we're proposing. A misdemeanor in which many traps are hidden. And why, Mr. Chanak? There are several reasons. First, when it comes to resolution. You say in the first position – respecting Vojvodina as a democratic, multinational, multi-confessional, multi-cultural, autonomous province, etc., where you state, of course, national communities. I'm asking you -- is it also a democratic, multinational, multi-confessional, multi-cultural environment in which other national communities live, like in the Pcinj County, like in the Raška area where we have Albanians, we have Roma, we have Bosniaks? So will we have to make a new resolution in this situation for each area? What does that mean, what kind of door does that open? The door of what? The door to some new autonomy? The door to some new separatism? I think it's a dangerous trap that we certainly won't get caught in, or we won't get into. Furthermore, in the second position of this to say the introductory part of your resolution, you say, which I find not correct, Mr Canak, that, starting from Vojvodina as a civil decentralised autonomy, covers three regions, etc., that you are convinced that Vojvodina is not only a bridge of Serbia towards European integration, but a factor in the stabilisation of the state of the region. Mr. Chanak, what does that mean? Does this mean that Serbia is a destabilising factor, and Vojvodina is the only stabilising factor? In what sense is the Vojvodina Bridge between Serbia and Europe and the EU? Vojvodina can only be within Serbia and within Serbia's legal and constitutional legal order, as part of foreign policy, Mr Canak. In the framework of Serbia's foreign policy, which is undoubtedly being led more than well, as President Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic do, and you cannot doubt that in any case. So the question arises: Why, in my view, did you make a very incorrect statement in the opening part of the resolution? Furthermore, you're saying that, starting with the historical fact that today's AP Vojvodina was created as a result of the anti-fascist struggle of its peoples in World War II and entered with its own will, as you have mistaken here, the composition of the Federative Republic of Serbia, is not Serbia, we know what it is, but it is not true. You know that's not true. The People's Liberation Movement was a liberating movement of general character and cannot be located from the Segmethna and tied only to Vojvodina. After all, Mr. Canak and how well you know that AVNO has declared and guaranteed Vojvodina within Serbia, not outside Serbia. That AVNOJ and the then communist party authorities have drawn certain boundaries and these borders have defined Vojvodina within Serbia. You obviously didn't mention it here, and it's clear why you didn't bring it up, at least to us in the SPS, I'm sure our coalition partners, but it's not correct to quote it that way either. We're getting the whole story back into some kind of story that's falling away from what you're affirming and you're trying to show us here. What is most controversial is what my colleagues, particularly in my parliamentary group, our authorised representative Dusan Bajatovic, Zarko Obradovic, colleagues from the SNS, pointed out above all, do not expect us to spit on what we affirm, what we fight for and what we stand for. We are part of European integration, we are on our way to the EU, that path has been routed by this government and that path is undoubtedly the only way Serbia is going and you know it. Now, if that's the case, and it is, then we come into a situation to ask you a logical question – why would we affirm something other than what we do by accepting this resolution? It makes perfect sense. I'd like to discuss it that way. Of course you'll answer all my questions, I hope. What we have clearly and precisely characterized on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives as the opposite of the legal system and the Constitution, is this problem as regards discrimination and violation of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, and you know yourself that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia there is one principle guaranteed, which is the principle of the prohibition of discrimination, so the question arises – why would Vojvodina be apostrophene in this way, discriminating something else, I will not read to you what you wrote in the position of the 7th recital of the resolution. To bring an end now this critical part that I think is more than founded, try to deny me, I have nothing against it. We come to your proposals, what attitudes and conclusions we should adopt for you. Then you say that Vojvodina must never be reduced to the position of the region. The Vojvodina is not reduced to the position of the region. And this government and this constitution did not bring Vojvodina to the position of the region. You also say that the functioning of the state authorities and other public factors towards Vojvodina must be such that Vojvodina will be kind of freed from the findings of the current political majority. Does that go a little against democratic postulates and principles? Even in democracy, most people always decide what's important, well and how to act, work, edit, organize. You just mentioned an organization, which is why I'm using it. Furthermore, you're saying that the current change in the Constitution must be in view of the upgrade, when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina. I agree that qualitative shifts in the autonomy of the Vojvodina must exist, but only to one limit, and that limit implies autonomy to the state's borders. If autonomy goes beyond that limit of statehood, then you've got serious opponents in us who will never let you do it. Then we come to jurisdiction, financial resources, where Mr. Canak, and how well you know, and you've affirmed that, right here, we have a unique legal order and whether you want it or not, the constitutional-legal order states that the regulation of certain issues, when it comes to fiscal policy, when it comes to the budget, when it comes to some other financial developments is unique. On the other hand, the Statute of the Vojvodina has been transferred to certain responsibilities and has been guaranteed. There is no reason for controversy or any dialogue. In the end, it bothers a little bit that you haven't covered a period of history that you should have covered. I think Mr. Seselj apostrophyd it yesterday. Why didn't you cover the period since 1690? Why didn't you apostrophe of the efforts of the Serb people led by Arsenija III Charnojevic, who raised Serbs when they were the current Vienna wars, when at last there was a cultural autonomy, a personal character? When Serbs conquered territories and when I remember them, Mr. Martinovic, you correct me if I am wrong, the Emperor of Vienna or Austria, Leopold, brought an innovation guaranteeing to the Serbs that he would receive the immovable goods they won in the fight against the Turks, placing themselves on the side of Vienna. After that, there was also what the political dimension implies, so for the first time Serbs had autonomy in that period in 1690, I think I'm right when we talk about historical facts. Why didn't you put it into the explanation of your proposal, given that it was a gene and that it came from there? Autonomous effort to come up with a certain solution to the issues that you're imposing today and affirming, I'm afraid, in a way that goes a little beyond the limits of autonomy as we see it. All these arguments that I have highlighted define us only in one direction, which is that we will vote against these proposals, that we will not accept them, and that we are always ready for a conversation that involves the arrangement of the AP Vojvodina within the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, respecting all standards, both European and principles guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52553	Thank you. You have five minutes until 1400 hours and we can continue the debate at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52554	Here, let Mr. Sarovic continue, let him speak, and after the break I will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52555	Will you listen to Nemanja Sarovic, then we'll continue with you after the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52556	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the two minutes left I'm going to try to touch what I consider to be the essence. Today's story of any autonomy of the Vojvodina, I'd say, first of all, was deplaced. If we look back historically, this autonomy was, above all, a reflection of the Serbian people's desire for freedom and for joining other parts of the Serbian people and other Serbian countries. It is clear that autonomy was not itself a goal and it is clear that Vojvodina today belongs to the Serbian people. Not to any national minorities, but belongs to the Serb people for the simple reason that it is the Serbian people who have soaked every inch of Vojvodina with blood and paid for the lives of their ancestors. The moment first autonomy was achieved and then the final goal was to join Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia at that time, the project was completed. Historically, it is over and the fate of Vojvodina is irrevocably resolved. No further desire or aspirations of the Serbian people for autonomy within Serbia has been and any kind of such autonomy is absurd. What has been done by the communist leadership since World War II is, historically, only the desire to create a province and exempt parts of the territory where, undeniably, the Serb people have lived exclusively, to weaken the national Serb Corps and weaken the influence of the Serb people in the communist formation. The Serbian people today do not seek any autonomy. Who's looking for her? Those who, thanks to their political potential and the fact that they are not able to provide anything good to the citizens of Serbia, and these citizens living in Vojvodina, not the citizens of Vojvodina, because Vojvodina has a population, and not citizens, have states, are trying to deceive the people, as some say, better when they are in the EU, so others say -- you will live better when the autonomy of the Vojvodina is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52557	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I guess if we go, the promoter will join us. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52559	Thank you, President. It's interesting that there's no promoter in the O.R. It probably speaks of his seriousness access to this subject, but well, we'll certainly continue to take this sort of thing seriously, no matter who they came from. Talking about one Serbian province, and forgetting the other is simply impossible. With this in mind, you were witnessing that a letter from the Third Army Commander General Pavkovic arrived in the public yesterday and I will read to you an interesting detail about the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, in the past, and also about the struggle continued by President Aleksandar Vukic and today's Government of the Republic of Serbia. I quote: “As your war commander, I want to ask you again to remain unique and firm, not to fall for the provocations of various politicians and manipulators. Don't let them fight you and divide the bastards from the back lines. Now the heads of state and army are men who appreciate our sacrifice and our dead comrades. Prices of heroes who died with the cry "For this country is worth dying", as our hero Tibor Cerna. Tibor Cerna was otherwise a member of the Third Army, a resident of the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina. They appreciate us and listen to what we have to tell them about our heroic defenses, unlike those who have haunted us for more than a decade, slandered, arrested and sent to the caesamats. Do not fall for the promises and empty stories of those who have destroyed our army, humiliated and dispersed the personnel of war, those who have destroyed the fighting technique, trodden their weapons with tanks, dipped them in ironworks, those who have shamed you and disowned you. That is why I ask you to contribute together and help with our unity to all those who are putting forth sincere efforts to make the army what it was, and even stronger and more capable of being a guardian of peace and stability, the guardian of peace and stability, I stress, our Serbia, but also the factor of deterring those who would step on our dignity again, rob us of territory and freedom. Be proud and stick together as you once did and remember – only when we are unique then we are invincible." This is how participants of these events from far away in 1999, from a sufficient distance to say what it looked like and what the struggle from that period was and what the relationship of individual authorities had in the past decades towards that and such struggle. Now again, we have political manipulation, of course, the author of the letter calls for unity in preserving the dignity and territory of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately again we have political manipulations and the same frauds who would re-dispute both the dignity and the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The dam, fortunately, and the president and this government and the southern Serbian province, though, today something, thank God, other means, diplomatic, projects and somewhat different and changed conditions, peacetime, but just as much as they defend the southern province, they care so much about the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina. It is not needed today to defend it against any outside enemy or terrorist, as did the Third Army people in 1999, today it is necessary to defend it against the pests it has managed and harrassed for the entire 16 years. They did untold damage to the province. I didn't think I was going back to some historic events 50 or 70 years ago, but when the promoter mentioned them, and as regards the events of the 1945 decision, constitutional amendments in 1968, the 1974 Constitution, raises one logical question – how is it that in all these events and historical changes no other territorial area or continent was given rights as then received by the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija? I think the answer is clear. At that time, as much damage as possible to the Republic of Serbia and thus to Yugoslavia and to prepare for all those events that will take place in the 1990s, whose witnesses unfortunately were us, most of us present in this room. It wasn't the devastation of Vojvodina in those past 16 years, returning to a nearer past, it wasn't just political, it was economic. All those vermin that led Vojvodina from 2000 to 2016 have done much more damage to Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia than it was to all those historic decisions that the proponent had called for. The personification of these and such authorities, which managed Vojvodina until two and a half years ago, are also the real promoters of this declaration, and the real promoters are Ms. or Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov, Marinika Tepic, longtime secretary in the Region government and, ultimately, the Democratic Party, as a crucial institution of government, with a part of responsibility, a good part of responsibility, bearing and proposing who was a faithful partner to the Democratic Party during that period. The damage is much greater than that caused by the extraction of Serbian and Vojvodina factories in the 40's and 50's when the aircraft factory from Novi Sad was moved to Mostar, when the power plant from the Serb dam was moved to Kranj, when the ergels, mills and railways from Vojvodina were moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and infrequently to Albania. The same fate was shared by the so-called. Serbia when the decision of the Ministry of Heavy Industry of the Truck Factory in Rakovica was moved to Maribor and a famous TAM was made. It was no different with Montenegro, when "Obod" from Cetinja was moved to Slovenia and "Gorenje" was made. The same was true with the Kragujevac machinery industry, when the most modern press in the machinery industry in the Balkans was transferred to Split for the needs of the shipyard in Split and the Beocina cement plant was also moved to Split. However, all this is nothing for what followed in Vojvodina after 2000, and it is related to the privatisation of factories and failed projects. I'll remind you of the citizens of the north and the citizens of the so-called. Serbia's narrowdown on Kamenica 2 projects when 19m euros magically ended in someone's pockets and the project was not completed. All that was going on at the Vojvodina Development Bank, where five billion dinars went missing, at events in the funds, above all in the Fund for subsidising new technologies, on events related to shaming in Subotica, on events related to the ipsylon arm, where millions disappeared, for decades we taped into one place, on events related to the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica, which they turned into the Skadar on Bojana. What's worse in just four years has been fired by 100,000 people in Vojvodina, 100,000 people who have lost their jobs. How are things today to compare? Stone 2's over. Just remember Heterland, home for children at New Vienna, a million and a half euros are magically gone. Today, Hetherland is in construction. Today we have finished. It's in the final phase of the ipsylon arm of Subotica. We have a folk theater where the works are moving, where we are expecting the first performances at the National Theatre in Subotica the following year, we have 20 million secured for the reconstruction of the hospital in Subotica and we have unemployment at slightly less than 10% in northern Serbia. This is what I was saying so that citizens could compare what happened in Vojvodina in 2000 and what happened until 2016 and what happens not three years ago. What I might end up adding is that, in addition to all this data, I say that we from the SNS will certainly not support the proposed law, nor the proposed resolution, first of all, that they are self-constitutional and anti-constitutional, but we will not support those political decisions that place any barriers or hints of any barrier between Serbs and Serbs, such as Vuk Jeremic and his mentors, putting a border between Serbs and Serbs in the southern Serbian province and Serbia, between, after all, Serbs and Serbs in Serbia-Montenegro. Look, they'll never forgive you. The same Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, Gilas today, announces a march on Vojvodina, the last days and Saturday. I tell you that in Subotica we will respond to what I have so far listed, projects, culture, dignity, which have always decorated both Saturday and the northern Serbian province. We will never be participants in Serbia's disintegration in any way, as did Vuk Jeremic, and imagine coincidences like his ancestors who he was very proud of. Remember, when we started through history, Hamdi Pozderac was like the President of the Constitutional Commission, then he was the greatest advocate of preserving the harmful 1974 constitution that has caused so much damage to the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. With that in mind, I'm telling you one more time that we from the SNS won't support the proposed act in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52560	Thank you. The word is Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52561	President-in-Office, respected Minister Nedimovic, respected legislators, respected MPs, I would, above all, give full support to the Parliament's president for putting this topic on the agenda, thus proving that we are discussing all key issues in this country in a democratic and principled way, also, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, which have launched this initiative. When I was on my way to the meeting this morning, my neighbors asked me how I could vote to discuss this in the Assembly. I asked them to wait for today's session and look at my explanation for why I did it. First, I think we proved yesterday and today that we are a congregation that in a democratic way, a principled way, with different attitudes, opinions, diametrically contrary, we can talk in a decent and cultural way. That's the value of this House. Regarding the law and resolution, I think it is very good to discuss and to know what the AP Vojvodina, which autonomy, which framework and it will exist but within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Personally, I think we've proven with arguments from the back centuries to the newer times that I've lived in, at a time when socialist relations develop, at a time of development since the 1990s and in this time that we're talking about right now. I can estimate that this is a different view and with many of the things these debaters have put forward, I fully agree and I think that such dialogue can get the right attitudes out of how and how to regulate the issue of autonomy. Another reason is to understand all these specificities of autonomy, especially AP Vojvodina. I'm also not going to talk more widely, but there have been a lot of words here about it and with many of the things that have been brought out here by respected professors and MPs, politicians, etc. I can agree, with one part probably not. But the specificity of the Duke must be shown. It must be defined quite differently than what our Constitution is saying and probably different than it is now. And the third dimension I want to say, which is why I agreed to discuss this, is the question of the Constitution. We personally think that we must be in charge of two governments. This parliament to determine precisely that the two governments are under the obligation, thus agreeing with Mr Mirovic's initiative, the president of the province's government, that they must sit down to agree, to create preconditions to talk about this, to create preconditions that we can adopt one of these laws. We cannot do this now, regardless of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said was in accordance with the Constitution. There are no assumptions. I personally think that it is acceptable and we must conclude that, namely, the Government itself concludes both, to sit down and pay particular attention to issues of constitutional change, not just because of this, but because of many things that we would do, and probably the President will put it on the agenda, if we give some initiative, to discuss as we are discussing today. From these, I also supported the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This cannot be discussed, discussed, something like this cannot be adopted and certain assumptions made by the government in its visions are highlighted. I also personally think it would be very good to accept the initiative, that is, the position that I said to the president of the province government, that a special session should be devoted to these issues of one and the other governments, given that both governments function well and have mutual understanding. I especially want to say the reason why we can't pass a law like this. I personally think, such issues as this law, and many others, many other problems, cannot be solved until the issue of Kosovo is resolved. For these reasons, full support is given to give the president of the Republic who is working to solve the Kosovo problem the way he suggested. We can't solve a question that changes the Constitution. We can't change the Constitution until the issue is resolved. For these reasons, my efforts in this direction, and I am expressing the parliamentary group's position to try to make the assumption that these issues can be resolved. For these reasons, and many others who have been brought here, our MP group, or PUPS, will not be able to support the draft law and resolution submitted by LSV. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52562	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52563	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I would agree with most of my colleagues here in parliament, that it is a good thing that you have decided, as president of the National Assembly, to put on the agenda, such an important topic, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Resolution on Vojvodina has, of course, expressed the full democratic capacity of both our majority and you, as president of the National Assembly and the desire and will to dialogue in parliament on key matters for the development of our country and for the future of our country. We have heard different visions, and given that I had the opportunity to chair yesterday for a long time, I can only say that I enjoyed this debate, which in most cases was very, very argumentative, legally and in every other way subdued, and this is the picture of Parliament, which, in fact, reflects the picture of the Serbian Parliament and the MPs in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I will present here my party's views on this resolution, on the views expressed by my colleagues when it comes to this resolution on the AP Vojvodina. Of course, I will also say that we will not support this resolution and its vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we also disagree with the views of some parties, such as the SRS, on how the AP Vojvodina should be arranged and how the regulation and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be in the future. What I would like first to underline, is that the first two paragraphs of this resolution, I would also personally sign, because they are just talking about it, about Vojvodina as it is in its current position, the position within the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, one autonomous province, in any case, is an example of co-existence, an example of interconfessional, that is, inter-religious tolerance and interethnic tolerance, and, of course, in composition and tightly related to Central Serbia and the national level of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the leaders of Serbian, since and 100 years ago, advocated through their ideas, when they made, when King Alexander was also making the kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, when the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was formed after the Versai Congress. It was one state that was supposed to be the parameter and in which the main one was to be, in fact, mutual tolerance, prosperity, economic development. Afterwards, such an ideology was inherited by Nikola Pasic, Milan Stojadinovic, who, unfortunately at the time, because of such visionary ideas because of Serbia and Yugoslavia, who then promoted, because of good relations with Mali Antant and with Turkey both then and with Great Britain both France and Germany. So, it's very clear what politics was then led, the policy that has been led today by the president of our country. What is saddest of all is that, even 80 years later, we are in a similar situation, that all those who have visionary ideas, who want strong Serbia, who want an economically developed and independent country, independent of, as far as possible, from regional influences, but of course also the influence of major forces, are exposed, of course, to the most difficult types of calling, attempts at persecution, or to say one television, which I can freely call "encrypted", exposed, they called that siege of the Presidency and president of the Republic a few days ago, a hostage crisis. I guess the president of the Republic of Serbia for them, on Sunday, in those few hours, when they entered those trucks, broke through police cordons, beat the police, tried to enter the building, I guess, to lynch the president and members of our public security services. I guess he was a hostage back then or they were in their heads, of course it was true, they thought he was a hostage. And at that time, MP Arnautovic, unfortunately under the great influence of Petar Zivkovic, tried and shot Milan Stojadinovic, who spoke about Serbia, who spoke about Yugoslavia, which spoke about geopoliticals, about the finances of economic growth and development that, I think, amounted to about 14% in 1936. Unfortunately, after 80 years, we have a similar situation that the elements that had 1 percent at the time, when you look at those researches, whoever wants to see it can see it in the book "Propagand Milan Stojadinović" and then Ljotic had 1 percent of the support, and now those who are his followers have 1 percent of the support, and with that 1 percent of the support they want to take over power, they want to take over Serbia, and I guess that they return it to a time that involves economic weakness, which means anti-Semitism, which means everything that Serbia is not and that our people are not, and of course, as most of all, but primarily citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so at least 55 to 60 percent, according to the latest surveys, which are for the President of the Republic and who support its policy, will not allow. It is strange, but of course, it cannot be brought into a relationship and that we are in a very complex geopolitical situation today, and it is no accident that the heirs of the pro-fascist elements of the parties that were figureed in our country before the Second World War, and in the political life of Yugoslavia itself, and the Kingdom of Serbs and Croats and Slovenians, it is no wonder that their activities, all of what they are doing on the internal agenda in our country, are fully in agreement and it is completely immeasurable to what is happening in our region, and what happens is that the KSF performs military exercises together with the military of Albania. What happens is that we are fighting and these few days the President of the Republic is struggling to bring "Folkswagen" to Serbia, for new jobs, for new investments, for modernisation and what message is being sent in this way? By entering and threatening journalists, by entering the studio, by siegeing the Presidency of the Republic, what message is being sent not only to politicians and to all who are sitting in this Parliament and in state institutions, what message is being sent to citizens? Is there a message that we're all targets? Is it a message that we want Serbia to be modern, prosperous, to be a part of Europe, to be part of the modern world, that all of these are values that can cause us to suffer tomorrow. If they hit the president of the Republic the other day, so what's the problem that tomorrow, as they did by attacking the MP and fellow Drecun, what's the problem with attacking anyone and any citizen of the Republic of Serbia? As a legal state and, of course, as a serious country, I don't think we should allow it. I would like to associate what I just said with this good and reasoned debate on the resolution proposed by the promoters, which Mr Nenad Canak, colleague Nada Lazic, Olena Papuga, who have submitted, that it is great to discuss it, but also that it is great to exchange arguments and to talk about how to improve both politically and economically and in any other way, and how together and how it is the Serbian Parliament and it is a place where we should discuss these key things for our country how to take advantage of all the potentials of Vojvodina, not only the natural potentials that Vojvodina definitely has, but also human potentials and how in one part, I could freely sign these first two paragraphs. How to improve the potential, human potential and how to stop this so-called brain drain or young people living in Vojvodina, but of course in the context of our entire country, because it is not necessarily only in the Republic of Serbia, it is not necessarily APV, it is for all countries in the region, but not in the territory of countries that are, even EU members. I am in favour of today and in the coming days talking about economic prosperity, we are talking about investment. What is essential is that the province's government has in the past few years implemented dozens of strategic projects, starting with attracting new investments, "Lira", "Delfaja", opportunities to employ thousands of people there, the formation of an industrial park in Novi Sad. The creation of a new Sad and Vojvodina-based technological hub where thousands, young people work in the field of information technologies, create additional value and thus strengthen the Serbian economy. Also, projects that the Republic of Serbia is in the APV territory are working in co-operation with Chinese partners and of key importance for the Republic of Serbia, and that is where I will potential the Belgrade-Budapest track, and I think that often, perhaps not intentionally mentioned in the context that this is the Belgrade-Budapest track. It is not a railway from Belgrade -- Budapest, but Belgrade-Budapest-Brno-Bratislava-Krakov-Varsha. It is a bridge of the Republic of Serbia towards central Europe, it is a bridge of the Republic of Serbia towards the Visegrad Group of countries with which Serbia and I stand truly for it, should strengthen co-operation as we have done. That is what this authority is responsible for, to strengthen co-operation with Hungary. The relations between Serbia and Hungary have never been as historic today at the highest level, and this should be a clear signal and a sign of how much we need to invest together in these relations both in bridges and in infrastructure with the countries around us and thus strengthen our country economically and in any other way. So, in any case, we will not vote for this resolution nor the draft law on the financing of APV. In any case, as well as our colleagues from the SNS, we are prepared for every kind of dialogue, for the exchange of arguments, facts, views, opinions with everyone for the sake of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, of course, of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of the APV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52564	Thank you. Now you've signed up again. Check out. If you could help me run in a few minutes. (Miss Radeta: Replica. But you have no basis. I have to explain. There's nothing in life to die for one day. That won't convince me something has to be done. Vladimir Marinkovic only said he disagreed. (The Verse of Radeta: According to the Statute of Vojvodina, you should really... If you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, say so, but I don't think there's room for a replica because he said a very decent sentence. Please, I'm preparing a speech now I'm going to say who I don't agree with. I hope the chairman doesn't see it as something offensive. My position is like this, if you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, you call again. Yeah, and my point is there's no replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52565	I'm reporting from Article 104 because I really think there was a replica. I know it is your right, or the right of the chairman to determine who is entitled to the replica, but if someone, as MP Marinkovic said earlier, disagrees with the SRS' position on the status of Vojvodina. It simply requires an explanation for the public, first of all. It is the position of the SRS that we stand against the autonomy of Vojvodina, but we advocate the maximum autonomy of local self-government. It's something we're proud of. We regret that we are the only ones who have this opinion, and we regret that most people do not think that way, because it is the only way and the only way to get in the way of such attempts as these proposals we are discussing today. On the other hand, it is good for Mr Marinkovic, the role model to see in Milan Stojadinovic the president of the radical government, and there may be some changes in the view of Vojvodina's status. So, we SRS, we are against autonomy, and to strengthen local self-government, because we think that the two governments ballast government of the Republic of Serbia is quite enough government of Vojvodina is no use to anyone, just one administration more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52566	Do you think since I haven't changed my mind? (Miss Radeta: No.) Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52567	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The agenda of this session gives us the opportunity to discuss, not only the financing of the APV, but also to look a little wider at things, and why not recall something that has been happening in the territory of Vojvodina over the past years. Certainly, by 2016, a total policy has been changed, which 16 years earlier focused on the creation of conflict, bad human relations, and thus no one has dealt with the citizens and their needs. Now there is a policy of gathering around projects, which is addressed to ordinary people and solving their problems. In 2016 large debts were found in Vojvodina. The biggest problem seems to have arisen between 2004 and 2008. We remember all the situation with the Development Bank, which led to the Vojvodina Assembly's debt of 150m euros to cover the downside. Now public finances are stable. We have budget growth in absolute terms and debt declines both in absolute and relative terms. In doing so, a lot of things have been done. First of all, the projects that the Region is working with the Republic, such as the National Theatre in Subotica, RTTV, are important, are the reconstruction of the channel network at 30 locations covering several significant projects. It is this policy of gathering around the projects now under way that has led to concrete results. We now have the construction of the Belgrade-Sabotica railway, the Stara Pazova-Novi Sad railway that is worth about $400m. A contract is expected to be signed in China for the Novi Sad-Sabotica stock. 11 industrial zones were built, Minister Nedimovic spoke of yesterday, until 2016 in Vojvodina, there was no industrial zone, and now there are 11 industrial zones, if only Rumu for example, she was over-indebted, and now we have six factories there. As for the reduction in the number of unemployed, the number of unemployed has been reduced to that extent that now the rate is below 9%, which can be said to be a historic success. There are even dozens of cities or municipalities where there are no unemployed at all, such as Subotica, Indjia, Rum or Old Paz. Also, it is expected to sign the contract for Europe's largest tire factory to employ 1,500 people. It's a billion-euro project. I think these are the results we need to be talking about. These are all the results of the province's government from 2016 to today, of course, with great co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All this suggests that money is there, but that money is now available responsibly, and a non-domestic policy of spending money and borrowing is the past. This solution that was given in the proposal, if a special tax administration were formed, would, in fact, be a violation of the single tax system if adopted. It's not the way to solve a problem of breaking up the tax administration. One part of the income is actually created in the territory of Vojvodina, and that part of the income is very often high and over 40%, but it's reportedly only 7% back, but they don't count there, they don't count the military, the police, the judiciary or part of the funding money of all of these projects that I've listed, so it's not exactly everything that's said in the explanation of this proposal. I'll only end up with one bad example that happened in government until 2016, which is embezzlement. This is how they leave it to look Heterland, I don't know if it's nice, and that's why I think there's a lot of attention to just talking about ways of funding. I believe that both the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are ready to stop this kind of thing happening or sanctioning itself. Finally, the need to pass such a law is not controversial, but this proposal is not appropriate in front of us for some of the reasons that I have stated. The SNS parliamentary group will not support the draft laws and resolutions on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52568	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52569	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have two proposals on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – a bill on the financing of the AP of Vojvodina and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. The Duke's question is all of us living in it, and there's no division there. We all share the fate we found in 2016 when we came to power. We want to show the people of Vojvodina what this government did when it came to power. They know a lot because they feel the way they live. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina raises the question of the smooth development of cultural, economic, social. It requires the establishment of new rights that it needs to develop uninterruptedly. He's asking for the AP Vojvodina to get what's historically its, and that's full of autonomy. The Regional administration of the DS from 2000 to 2016 has devised the autonomy of Vojvodina in the fight for personal wealth, robbery and theft of the citizens of Vojvodina. Who robbed the Vojvodina? Fake patriots who filled their pockets. Will they live better, move less if this law is passed? That's not true. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has been in power for 16 years, a coalition partner of the DS, and I don't know why it hasn't met its demands now. Over the entire 16 years, as long as DS and its coalition partners ruled, there has been an economic breakdown of Vojvodina. The Vojvodina was brought to the brink of destruction and to the general chaos in all spheres of life. Powerful dubiosis, empty cash registers, have been found. The economy has been destroyed in all aspects of the economy. This started from 2000 to 2016 with the sale and liquidation of domestic producers, including 91 agricultural industrial combinations with thousands of hectares of land, with farms, livestock farms, slaughterhouses, dairy, brewery, liquor factories. The great giants, such as "29, have disappeared. November, Mitros, Choka, Servo Mihalj, who had 24,000 workers, 42 factories and 25,000 co-operatives. I'd like to say something about the Subotic I come from, where an unspeakable robbery of state property was committed. I will especially mention the crisis headquarters that have taken over by force until then, let's say, "North Subotica", "Agrocombinate", "Agroseme" and others, which do not exist today. I must point out that in the largest giant "North Subotica", which had 5,000 workers, a physical director and leadership were kicked out of the firm. I wonder if these were democratic methods that arrived in 2000? Dozens of companies have collapsed and disappeared. I would like to say to the people of Vojvodina that Vojvodina has always been part of the Republic of Serbia's solution. With the arrival of SNS to power, the country began to develop evenly, including, of course, Vojvodina. It's been done a lot on all levels. New factories, new plants have been opened throughout the AP Vojvodina. 65 companies have arrived in Vojvodina. The country had to be saved from bankruptcy, stabilised by public finances, revived by a dead Serbian economy. In the town of Subotici, the Republic of Serbia invests in the National Theatre. In 2019 alone, 880 million dinars will be invested to end. Under number two, Ipsylon's leg, which has been working for years, will be finished this year. One share was put into traffic. Investment in railway infrastructure, on the high track of Belgrade – Budapest. Only a billion euros will be invested from Novi Sad to Saturday. The work of the park park and the spa centre on Palic began. When it comes to the area of health, I'd like to point to the following important moments. By 2016 there was only one angio-sala in the AP Vojvodina. Now there's nine of them. All general hospitals are equipped with new CT devices. 31 sanity vehicles have been purchased. Since 2016, 2.6 billion dinars have been invested solely for the purchase of medical equipment. Stone 2's starting to work. 35m euros were invested in KC Vojvodina. Hospitals, health homes, and many health institutions have been reconstructed throughout the Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has helped rebuild the city of Subotica, as well as Vojvodina. We are very grateful to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to President Aleksandr Vukic for his efforts and for his support for the reconstruction of the Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52570	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52571	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to point out at the outset that I will vote against these proposals for several reasons. First of all, it is really unacceptable for me to vote in favour of certain legal solutions that are in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the proposed law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is, in fact, a non-compliance with the already existing legal systems that the Republic of Serbia has, above all, I think of the powers that define the powers of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the tax system that exists on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What I'd like to point out in the beginning is one little correction. Indeed, on several occasions today, we heard certain fellow MPs talking about the issue of the Vojvodina. I really can't agree, I come from Novi Sad or else, from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and I can't agree that there's a question of the Vojvodina. We have a stable republican government, a democratic parliament, in the AP Vojvodina, we also have a stable assembly, a government that conducts all major capital investments and investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, runs a democratic principle, cares for national minorities and other important topics that are always current in the AP Vojvodina. With that, I can't really talk about the existence of any question of the Duke. I agree that the Republic Assembly, parliament, which is currently discussing these two proposals, is, we have supported discussing these two topics, as well as what every time, at least since Mrs. Maja Gojkovic is the chairman and the President of Parliament we have discussed all the matters that are important to any political entities. Why is this topic in front of us today? I would really use it, but as we discuss the proposed law and resolution to return to the period from 2000 to 2016, that is, until the period when the SNS took power in 2016 in the region. Many who today, and even earlier who spoke, whose mouth was full of Vojvodina, cared for the citizens of Vojvodina, did not show it when they had the opportunity. Even the promoters who put these two proposals ahead of us, although not dominant, but who did power during Bojan Pajtic, who in various ways really lost the chance and some kind of trust that perhaps gave them a number of citizens in 2000. It is very easy to remember all the affairs from the areas that rocked the then-Government of the AP Vojvodina, led by Bojan Pajtic. All citizens remember today when I speak to citizens from different municipalities and towns in Vojvodina, they cannot without mentioning the disastrous affairs Bojan Pajtic has made in the territory of Vojvodina. Here, first of all, I'm talking about a non-intentional waste of funds. We all remember those dubious and critical different competitions, where associations run by DS officials received funds or non-purposely spent funds from different associations, we remember the Vojvodina Development Bank, which was indeed the Democratic Party's ATM. Whatever DS official he came to could have taken the funds for his own personal needs. "Hetherland" continues, we can list to infinity everything that was on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Then the question is, who cares about the people of Vojvodina? Do those who had the opportunity to do something for the citizens? They have had more than 15 years of this opportunity or those who have taken responsibility today, and above all I think of the SNS which in 2016 took over responsibility and power in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and since then a series of successes have been recorded in this part of the Republic of Serbia. What is characteristic of today's government and the Republic and the province is that there is one principle, which is a common function. You all remember the period until 2016 when, so to speak, every former regime official had a certain part of the budget. So you had in Indjija Jesic, who unhinderedly ruled the Indji and no one interfered with his business. Bojan Pajtic had the province budget and no one thought for example to sit down and think about what could really be done in any municipality or city on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Today is a completely different situation. Already in the first year of government, so, in 2016, when the SNS took over power in the AP Vojvodina, there were several joint sessions of the province and republican government, and that is the principle that works today. The agreement stems from all major capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This is the best way and the best picture in which the Republic of Serbia takes care of the citizens of Vojvodina, through various capital investments and all that is important for the life of all citizens throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but today when we talk about the AP of Vojvodina, I mean that part of Serbia. Ipsylon Krak, who my colleague said, is a project that has been promised for 25 years in northern Serbia and has been presented as a major investment that no one could complete. We today have an Ipsylon arm that will end by the beginning of next year and will be fully operational. Also, we have in Novi Sad two big investments that the earlier regime couldn't bring. Remember when the story began, when Milos Vukevic announced investments in Novi Sad, the opposition laughed at it and said it was impossible. We have two big ones today when we talk about factories in Novi Sad. In addition, a science and technology park that is very important for all of Vojvodina and all of Serbia. Of course, we have a number of other projects that are being worked on the territory of the Vojvodina. What's important and what I'd like to point out is that it's not just investing in Novi Sad, and that's another reason why citizens really give great support to the SNS. It insists on balanced regional development, so that we can infinitely list the number of schools that have been renovated, pre-school institutions, secondary schools in Serbia on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We can talk about now having nine angel halls that exist in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, until 2016, there was one. All major hospital centres have been renovated and put into operation, the health institutions' infrastructure has been improved. We have progress in the area of infrastructure where the roads for which I think Bojan Pajtic and previous supporters so-called. They do not know that there are certain places in the province's territory. I am absolutely sure that Aleksandra Jerkov has never made it to Maglic or Backa Palanka or Odjak and beyond that. So, I think that Serbian citizens clearly recognise who really cares about them and therefore such support is also reflected from the electoral process in the election process. As I said, I really cannot accept these two solutions, first of all because they are completely contrary to the Constitution and I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia has legal solutions through which the financing of the AP Vojvodina works, so that there is not simply some delusion. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52572	Thank you, colleague Maletic. The word is Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52573	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the topic of today's session is the AP Vojvodina and its funding. We hear the stories of our opposition every day that they're in some kind of media blockade, that they don't have a chance to make their views and suggestions, even though it doesn't fit the truth at all. Today's session is an example that negates these false appeals. The SNS is the only party of government in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, which also puts the opposition parties' proposals on the agenda. I'm going to look back on a few thank-you statements from the President of the Assembly, which has put this important issue on the agenda. It certainly confirmed that democracy exists in this assembly. Only, I don't see what the big question is. I come from Futoga, a suburban settlement near Novi Sad, one important issue that exists there is stability in Serbia, development of economy, investment, infrastructure equipment, these are important issues. Although, here today, we have proposals for LSV and this proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. So, when you work in the interest of citizens, you have no fear of putting something like this on the agenda. It is interesting, by the way, that the proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is almost identical, and it differs only from a provision on the application of the law, and from the one submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, the MP and member of the current tycoon Fascist Alliance for Serbia, the axis of Đilas-Jeremić-Oradovic, the new aggregate state of the party's disappearance – DS. I must remind you that Aleksandra Jerkov was a member of the LSV, which she left immediately after being replaced by the newly formed assembly majority in Novi Sad by the president of the City Assembly. I guess she thought she'd be on a team that had been a master of life and death for 16 years in the AP Vojvodina, DS. It's a time of yellow affairs and malfeasance. I'd just like to remind you of some, so we're on our way – the "Vojvodine Development Bank" affair, the Capital Investment and Development Fund affair, the Fund for subsidising the drive of new technologies, the Tesla Bank affair, and we could do that to 101. What's important in the end is that it was a miracle to fund the drive of new technologies, siphons, brushes, solar panels and what we don't see in Vojvodina, but do you know what's important? The important thing is that we figured out where our money was. We have something else now. At the time of that yellow government, the number of employees in large agricultural combinations fell from about 60,000 to just 1,500. Isn't that right, Minister? The number of agricultural cooperatives has fallen from 400 to only 100, and agriculture has narrowed down to basic work. The Minister is here, with his head on the air, and I really trust him. These are all the results of those who today would force themselves into power, those whose fascist phalanges fall into RTS, break doors, windows, carry motor saws and phantoms, and before that remember that they attacked women. Fortunately for the people of Vojvodina, this and this power is an ugly past. The Serbian Progressive Party is returning Vojvodina to its feet. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to skip part of my speech, all my colleagues said less in their presentations. I just want to say next. Respected Serbian citizens, the SNS with President Aleksandar Vukic at the helm, as you can see, build and work and keep its promises. We don't have time for Saturday's walks and time for violence, breaking, motor saws offering us tycoon phalanges with Bosca Obradovic, Gilas and Jeremic at the helm, and I certainly won't vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52574	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52575	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, before us the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, whose deadline for adoption, according to the promoters, expired on 31 December 2008 and how the proposings in the reasons for the adoption of the law say – since the AP Vojvodina budget has not been adopted in all these years and has not been stable, safe, sufficient and predictable sources of funding. From 2008 until 2016, DS, LSV and SVM were the leaders whose leaders, above all, sincerely intend to establish in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina the bill and refer to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption, but rather the issue of financing the province served to preserve their own rating, preserve the electoral body, and all along with slogans such as "the point of robbery", "better days for Vojvodina", with a caring question of where they are or where our money is. We, the very citizens of Vojvodina, from 5 October 2000 to 2016 were asking Bojana Pajtic and his associates, and of course we didn't get the answer, and we put "the robbery point" in the 2016 elections. In that period, Vojvodina was reduced to a level of underdeveloped region, certainly not because of the volume of the province's budget, but because of numerous affairs, abuses, non-intentional, unconscious, irresponsible behaviour in the spending of the AP Vojvodina budget and all local self-governments that were in the hands of DS and LSV leaders, and were, as a rule, used by citizens for their own personal privileges, their own wealth, fictitious contracts, bloated bills for paying fictitious jobs, which is worst, on non-existent investments. That's how it was in the New Prince I came from. Dear People's MPs, we can pay taxes in Belgrade, Vojvodina, Serbia. If there's no record of where and what this money is spent on, then it doesn't make any sense, especially if this law is passed, based on the percentage division of a prey, there's going to be another abuse, and that's why this proposal is unacceptable by the fact that it's only looking for money without a project, the authority that Vojvodina is going to finance. Today in 2019, the planned budget of AP Vojvodina is 74.4 billion dinars. It's 13 billion dollars bigger than it was in 2016. This is the result of the responsible management of the financing and the implemented fiscal consolidation measures, the economic stability of the Republic of Serbia whose budget has been recording the surplus for three years. The 7% obligation is fulfilled. The Duke's money gets it and she gets it. We often hear that the Republic of Serbia allegedly owes some money to Vojvodina, and no one tells us how much the Republic of Serbia's budget directly stands out for investments in Vojvodina's territory since 2012 until today. Today, citizens and citizens of Vojvodina can see the Željev Bridge, Kamenica Two, equipped and arranged hospitals and health homes, educational facilities, new roads and railways. In the past few years, the Republic of Serbia has funded a number of major projects and with this money Vojvodina has been more than certainly provided far more than the famous 7%. What is most important is that no one is going to Belgrade anymore, but thanks above all to SNS policy, Serbian President Alexander Vukic, as well as the Prime Minister, Mr Igor Mirovic, is the goal of being unique as part of Serbia to be developed, modern and competent for the lives of all its citizens. Everything that goes into the state register contributes to the Duke's register. The case of Belgrade and Novi Sad cash registers are the same and Belgrade can't be good if Novi Sad is bad. I can't help but touch the question – where are our money? The answer has been clearly delivered these days by the alliances for the repossessing of Serbia and their leaders – Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Borka, Marinika, Miroslav and many others who, in their desire to regain their budget, continue to rob Serbia. The point of the robbery has already been put in the 2012 elections once and for all in Vojvodina 2016, and will do the same in all futures, the SNS and its president Vukic will again, first and foremost, because of the results achieved so far and the better future that is now more than certain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52576	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52577	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, today in front of this assembly house is the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina has its original income to finance its competences, and the level of original income is determined by the law under which the AP Vojvodina receives at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. The basis for determining the budget of the AP Vojvodina represents the amount of total expenditure and expenditure planned by the Republic of Serbia. Capital expenditures or capital costs are expenditure which contribute to an increase in the value of a single country's assets. The category of capital costs shall include the acquisition of the basic assets of one State or of the costs resulting from an increase in the value of these assets. The decision on the budget of the AP Vojvodina for 2019 found that the total income and income of 74,428,662,812,32 dinar, representing 7.02% of the total revenue tax of the Republic of Serbia, as the basis for the accounting under the Budgetary System Act. In addition to these revenues and receipts of 7.02% of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, additional funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget are also set out directly on Vojvodina's territory for projects of republical importance totalling 24.368,925,040 dinars, which is the percentage of the allocation for the AP Vojvodina from the Republic of Serbia's budget, at 9.32%. Of these funds, I will specifically single out projects financed in the area of health care within the department of health. These are primarily reconstructions of the Vojvodina Clinical Center in the amount of 204 million and 500 000 dinars, then for the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina for the adaptation of two bunkers for the accommodation of linear accelerators of 108 million dinars and the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina two linear accelerants and a CT stimulator with equipment of 210 million. When the new Regional Government was formed in 2016, its first task was to halt the current flows of irrational spending of citizens' money. This also succeeded thanks to favourable funding conditions inherited debt of nine billion dinars annullised. So with one responsible head of finance and fiscal consolidation measures, the province's budget increased year by year. So now in 2019, as I said, it's a little over 74 billion. The government's political stability is being seen in the gathering of capital projects for the AP Vojvodina. First of all, it is a new building of RTV Vojvodina, Žeželev bridge, new emergency medical care building, building of the Saturday National Theatre, Frushkogorje roads, traffic infrastructure projects, Student Cultural Centre, etc. Vojvodina is characterized by balanced and regional development, so that the Vojvodina Development Agency was established on 21 February 2017 with the aim of attracting domestic and foreign investors. New 29 new plants have been opened in the AP Vojvodina, with investments in them of 301m euros, and 2,223 workers have been employed in Sombor, Pancheva, Kikinda, Shid, Novi Becej and Plandište, and already existing industrial zones are additionally equipped. As for investments in agriculture of 30 projects financed by Abu Dhabi, irrigation of more than 100,000 hectares of land will be realised. In the last two years, 1.6 billion dinars have been invested, of which the government of the AP Vojvodina has given 920 million, and 1.1 billion AP Vojvodina invests in the construction and reconstruction of water and sewerage in the populated towns of Vojvodina, and more than 180 million have been invested in the revitalisation of the Vrbas-Nosdan channel. 777 million dinars were invested to protect against floods in Vojvodina. Significant funds have been invested for healthcare. By 2016, only one angisal worked. He's currently working in Vojvodina for nine. So, on July 7th 2014, I went to the Minister, Mr. Loncar, and exposed the need to open an angiosala in Sombor. With the minister's decision to introduce new technologies to the Sombor hospital, the Somborians are given a great deal of need and angiosal. All the hospitals in Vojvodina are getting new CTs. Finally, "Kamenica Two" began its work. The children's hospital in Novi Sad gets its first magnetic resonance. The reconstruction and equipment of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre invested 35m euros. All over Vojvodina, health homes, hospitals have been reconstructed. To obtain new medical equipment, the AP Vojvodina has singled out 2.6 billion dinars, and 31 sanity vehicles have been provided, increasing the safety of patients on the ground during their transport to the nearest medical facility. The most innovative policy was supported, for which 665 million dinars were foreseen in 2019. Social protection was allocated from 2016 to 2018 to 513 million dinars, which is twice the amount invested for the entire term of the previous government. Significant funds are invested in the work of pre-school and school institutions, for regional and cross-border co-operation, economy, tourism, bačka sub-navigation, etc. The fact is that significant funds are planned and invested in the development of infrastructure, health care, education, but the citizens of Sombora continue to suffer from the fact that they cannot get the consent through their projects for years to join and extract from the appendix by building the Sombor-Vrbas highway. Also, some short-term development and financing plan of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the highway, should also put the development of Sombor airport and its transition from military to civilian and the possibility of cargo traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52578	Thank you, Dr. Babico. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, colleague Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52579	I thank you for your opportunity to discuss at one of the most interesting sessions we have held in this session and I would like to thank all the MPs who have noticed that since 2012, until now, in 2019, this third proposal we are considering at our session and that he has proposed one of the opposition MPs. I think MP Pastor even stated yesterday that from 2000 to 2012 simply this distinguished parliament had no custom of putting any proposal on the agenda, and that it came from some opposition parliamentary group or some opposition MP. Let me remind you that of the three proposals we've discussed, two have been adopted here. He is one of Srdjan Mikovic's MPs, formerly the SPO, but I think we have considered and adopted the law as an MP for the DS. The other one was so-called. "Zoin Law" which came from the parents of the accidentally deceased girl, and refers to the way our country treats children who have suffered from rare diseases and after the adoption of that law, the state has also formed a Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases. I say, by 2012, none of this message has been sent to you, it has been sent to the public, often under the authority of opposition MPs, simply has one picture of our Parliament that we are not going to do something in the last few years. We were even considering an extremely important topic, which concerning the AP Vojvodina, also since 2012, means, beyond these points of the agenda, which is that we were discussing then the new Statute of the AP Vojvodina, which was agreed and which was now in agreement with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and here exactly where Minister Nedimovic sat the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and was sitting Deputy Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Bogorovski. So, it can't be said that since 2012, when power was changed in Serbia, there has been no hearing of talking to the opposition or talking about the AP Vojvodina. The most offensive thing I've ever done in the last two days hasn't happened in this room. We have shown this debate that there are serious MPs sitting here who, when they propose something with the power of their arguments, believe it is important that we discuss this and defend our political commitment, as we MPs these two days, who will not support their proposals, the power of political arguments, our views, our political programmes speak of a peaceful, democratic, civilized way of talking about topics that are of importance, agreed or disagreed with us with each other, for all of us. And, I don't see anything controversial like that talking about other proposals coming from the opposition ranks, I'd just like to see the bill. We usually have days to determine the agenda, 350 points to get as proposals for supplementing the agenda. I have carefully analysed them when a group of MEPs came here to discuss everything and our European integrations, and of course Parliament, and I have handed them all 350 proposals. There were about 300 polling committees on the subject, I believe we'd all like to talk about it, is it true that you got up on your left this morning? Something like that. That's 300 suggestions. And, when we have extra time, we can talk about it, and it's no problem at all, and I hope you'll approve of us putting them all together at one point, so we can end up with that kind of view of Parliament's work. And, about 50 laws, perhaps five, six with content, and others say, change the decimal here and this law takes effect within eight days. What offended me is yesterday's performance by one of the MPs, honourable MP Zoran Zivkovic, who held a press conference here and who said that this session was lame, I'm not going to exactly quote it, but I'm going to convince him that this agenda and these agenda points are here just to show that something's going on here. There, so much for the prime minister of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. To him, it seems, the topic proposed by MPs from the Social Democrats League Group of Vojvodina, the question, let's say, of financing the AP Vojvodina, or the resolution and the discussion of it, is something that he considers to be for adjudication and that it doesn't matter at all to us who won't support these proposals and MPs who consider this to be the most important part of their political programme. Discuss this, since you are the opposition party who proposed these laws, discuss with Zoran Zivkovic why this sucks to him and why he thinks that these topics are just for puzzling and that they would pretend to me against the public that something is happening. To me, for example, it doesn't matter what he said and I don't care about any of the discussions I've heard, because I have something to resent in various ways of political, let's just say, communication or texts that we've received here for consideration. I'll keep talking on this subject, but in my own way. Mr. Djordje Vukadinovic also said a few days ago that he would not absolutely join in a partial boycott of prey because he would be attending meetings when important political topics are on the agenda. I don't know what's important to him, if someone who is, I think, from Novi Sad, although this isn't a Novosadian story and it's not just a story of citizens living in the northern province of Vojvodina, but let's say that I am Djordje Vukadinović and that I would say something like that in front of the public, because I think this is a very important political topic that we are discussing and we offer arguments for and against. I don't want to sound like the lawyer of Ambassador Nenada Chanka, because he didn't sign me, but it was also about the plagiarism of the law. It's a big question. Knowing the structure of members of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and their president, Mr. Nenad Canka, I will respond to those who believe this is a plagiarism. Before Alexander Jerkov wrote something from him, but he from Alexandra Jerkov. And I have an example here of a law that, when one day we talk about it, is certainly the plagiarism of his evasive MPs, Marinika Tepic. It's a law on gambling written by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and she has taken over and here she keeps reporting for the word, thinking that there are no people in the hall who know she didn't propose it, but because she escaped and displaced political face plagiarized the law of Nenada Chanka, who proposed it at the time, before her defection to other political lines. I apologize for being your lawyer for a moment, but so much for plagiarism. I think they signed their law, not Alexander Jerkov. And, I think there was today, and yesterday, a moment for all MPs to come into parliament here and finally the public of Serbia to know what the political views of MPs who have decided not to enter this hall are. Otherwise, they participate in the Committee's work, submit amendments. The other day I read the names of MPs who did not enter the hall, but suggested amendments, Gordana Komic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and others. They travel to parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia abroad, very gladly with my signature, they don't mind, and as far as I know, one of the conditions is for me to move away, and my signature is quite fine if you have to travel abroad. It's enough, like this, to discuss their position. It was time for them to come here, to explain, because they were the government in Serbia from 2000 to 2012, and in the AP Vojvodina until 2016. There's no better subject than to go into the O.R. and tear down the arguments of us who are against these bill and tell us what they did for the AP Vojvodina uninterrupted 16 years of government, except that they've come up with that question, by their actions and by not acting. They're literally disoriented. So, to explain to us what they've been doing in Vojvodina for 16 years and to tell us their political views, because they agree with the motion for a resolution proposed by the LSV parliamentary group. What's wrong with them? What's wrong with them? I mind a lot of this, you've heard of my distinguished colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group and these are our political views, but particularly the 3rd position that Vojvodina is the fruit of the anti-fascist struggle of its peoples in World War II, etc. that we don't go deep into history, but this just doesn't stand. Or to say whether this law on the financing of Vojvodina should be adopted, such as you suggested or not, but Serbia knows nothing about political views on any important issue of this country by these 25 to 30 MPs who say they are boycotting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, if we meet all the conditions of resigning, it's no problem at all, we go to the polls. We're going to go out with our programs here, each party here has its own agenda, and these MPs who won't come to debate important political issues, how safe this is today, the issue of funding, the issue of Resolution, the National Assembly, etc., come out to voters with motor saws, with scenes from Scar Face, Al Pacino. It's one of their programming assignments. They're going out in front of voters with phantoms. I thought they were against phantoms. Sometimes when they say something here, I thought it was them against the phantoms, but I saw they put the phantoms first, and then they took the saws. That is point 2 in their political programme, which is recommended to citizens of the Republic of Serbia or the civil option, they say, in Serbia. I didn't know the civil option liked phantoms and saws. The third part of the programme is the use of trucks in the takeover of power, with an accent on Bosko Obradovic's MPs, that a truck driver who won't drive through people and knocks himself into the presidency building needs to break the window, pull that driver out, and find a new victim who will follow his orders. This is the point of the 3rd election programme of undefined protesters and those who broke into the RTS building the other day, and tried Sunday to break in and lynch and kill, I guess, the president of the Republic of Serbia and solve the matter before the elections. If I told them, if they did, the choice would be again and they wouldn't come to power again. So we wouldn't be allowed to make any choices at all. Violence, it's the only thing I can recognize. There may be a part of Serbia's citizens who are so bitter that they agree with the programme's definition. So there's no Alexandra Jerkov, who we've heard has the same bill to explain to us, that she simply explains to us whose law is authentic. There is no Marinika Tepic, who is from Pančevo, full of the mouth of the AP Vojvodina, and she has fled and displaced the face, because she did not enter this parliament as MP Dragan Dilas, but she entered the list led by Nenad Canak, the legislator of these laws. I don't know whose legitimacy she has here in parliament, who she represents. Which LSV voter has approved Marinika Tepic that she and Dragan Dilas decide to lead them by Bosko Obradovic? I think that even in the wildest dreams, those who voted for LSV could not assume that Marinika Tepic would stand behind Bosko Obradovic, a bully with fascist ideas and thus conquer power and change Serbia for the better. I thought Saturday and Sunday that I didn't wake up from the worst nightmare I've ever had in my life. I am sorry that Gordana Comic was prevented from attending here, because she is DS, she knows how to explain to us what has been done in Vojvodina for 16 years, and knowing Parliamentarian Gordana Comic, she wanted to come, but there is no democracy with them. It will be done as Bosko Obradovic said and imagined, and forbidden to enter here, otherwise, in an attempt to discuss here, he would get a saw or a kick like me, or some trucker would already pick it up. Since 2000, there has been no one who has not ruled until 2016 with this state and whoever did not rule the AP Vojvodina, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, Sutanovac, the only one I can free from these responsibilities, but otherwise I release him from anything in politics, it is Zoran Lutovac, because I do not know what good he has come to lead the DS except that he is drowned in the Dveri movement. It seems to me, I have 29 years of political experience, it seems to be his job. And, Dijana Vukomanovic, please don't ask Ambassador Jovanovic to come out, now I've come to you, Dijana Vukomanovic, who said everything that the Socialist Party of Serbia says in the election campaign. The biggest political supporter Slobodan Milosevic, after the honourable MPs present, must have been Dijana Vukomanovic. Then why is she running on that list if she is not behind what Slobodan Milosevic, as president of the Republic of Serbia, did and brought the Constitution we discussed here. They're all at Bosko Obradovic's now. What Bosko Obradovic thinks of any topic none of us will ever seem to know. The order would also be Sanda Raskovic Ivić if she had appeared, we are all talking, and they are not there, those who wrote, brought constitutions, proposed to the citizens various solutions, she was the feather of the Democratic Party of Serbia, to remind you, the first on the list. She entered here with Lapčević and with colleagues to parliament and is the creator of the 2006 Constitution. We talked about this constitution, but Sanda Raskovic Ivić has amnesia, he does not remember that at the time she performed in the positions of the 2006 Constitution and was preparing for the ambassador. He probably thinks he's going to be now, but the Honorary Consul in Nicaragua seems to be. So Serbia has no idea what these MPs think of the AP Vojvodina and whether these proposals are good or if they have something else to say. We agree, we disagree, we'll discuss it next week. Of course, the SNS can't support it. But it's not the point of discussing every political issue that has as many votes as possible, so let's not discuss anything else, then it's known that only the majority of politics will be implemented and we'll never talk about any other subject. I was inspired by the second part, and I apologize to my colleagues if I eat your time, the issue of Nenada Chanka, but also the election campaign that was under way, you will remind me of what years, the billboards were all over the New Sad, I suppose, all over Vojvodina, with the inscription – where our money is. Today, Reverend Canak mentioned it, he has changed it a little, not – where our money is, but where it's being brought up or something. I have a part of the answer, of course, I'm sorry that witnesses and actors of these events are boycotting part of our parliament's work, because they don't know what to say to this. They don't know what to say. That's why they ran away, of course. I remember when Bojan Pajtic, when he adopted that statute of AP Vojvodina, began the session – good morning Vojvodina. So thank him for that. (Alexander Martinovic: Free Vojvodina. Free, oops, good morning, free Duke. I thought Vojvodina was free, and here's Nenad Canak said she's been free since 1945. So he said, "Good morning, Duke." I can do it again today. I just want to remind him where our money is, if I tried to find an answer to that question, I wasn't in power at the time. Perhaps he could – good morning, Vojvodina, to give us a part of the answer, for example, about the Vojvodina Development Bank. We've had a lot of discussion, I think some court proceedings are under way, so we've adopted some kind of decision here that we can't comment on. Okay, we're not going to comment on court proceedings, we're going to comment on what's not being prosecuted. I wonder what happened to the money that went through Tesla Bank? Tesla Bank is something fascinating to me, and only the Prime Minister and those who had to give money there can answer that question again and who knows what was there. This was presented as a means of encouraging the return of Serbs exiled from Croatia, so the bank was formed. I'm sorry Mr. Linta is not here to tell us how much Tesla Bank has encouraged the persecuted and displaced Serbs to return to develop their business. The bank has been doing business with its loss since its founding, and they say it was probably only used to draw money from Serbia and then reroute where it was supposed to go, probably private or party pockets, I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not the police, let someone else say that. There's nothing from her today. The initial capital itself was insufficient in general for the establishment of a bank, 4.9m euros, and 15m euros are foreseen. I'm a lot of 4.9 million if I don't know what's going on with that money. That's where our money is. The most money came from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Vojvodina Development Fund, 1.5m euros in our money at Tesla Bank. Where did the money go from that basic capital? That's one question. Who was given that money as a loan? What's the name of those faces? What companies are these? What are those people's names? Let us know, Parliament, if they got money from these loans and really when we ask where our money is, I'd like to know why my father paid taxes all his life, and today his great-grandsons can't get an answer to the question of where those money is. So we don't know who got the loans from Tesla Bank, no one came back from the Serbs with these incentive measures in Croatia. We do not know any Croatian citizen who has received a loan from this bank, regardless of whether the Croatian, Serb, German, Italian, Slovenian, is entirely whatever. I think that out of the kind of amnesia Bojan Pajtic and DS, who doesn't want to and think that this is some lame question that we're discussing today, suffering and we can't get an answer, and I'm most interested in the answer by Bojan Pajtic, an influential tweeter, but to know that I'm not on Twitter, I can't read those answers. He was the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Vojvodina Development Fund and that's the only person who knows how this operation was going. Let me tell him, he encouraged the Serbs so much to return to the Republic of Croatia, that according to the last census since the founding of the bank, there were 20,000 fewer of them. So much for incentive measures. Economists know what it means when an auditor gives you the opinion that he refrains from thinking about the business of Tesla Bank in the Republic of Croatia. That means, in an economic dictionary, that this bank needs to be run away. We leave that to someone else. All we know is that Serbia lost nearly three million euros in one of these jobs and I'm afraid that as time goes by, we'll never get the answers we're asking where our money is. It's very short, little maybe even to make you sad and laugh at the same time, where our money is. We're having an affair with high school waxers. There is Bojan Pajtic, the Democratic Party gave subsidies of 189,160 euros to ATG from Stara Pazova. Of course they didn't pay back the money, they did. They did. They did. Well, then, miles of student bowels with developmental disturbances. There's our money, 661.303 euros in money subsidies. Of course, returned in miles of plastic intestines to duke schools for students with developmental disorders. Sadness. Now let me tell you something, the newly-sed firm AMB Graphics, they returned 379,806 euros in books. You know the name of the book? "Paranoya in space". This was funded by the people of Vojvodina, “the Paranoia of the universe. ” Not to mention the affair - the coffin. There's a co-worker, she knows that they're struggling today with an affair of coffins, a Marati company from Somboro, a subsidy of 24 million dinars, and then again for coffins of 29,500 million dinars, and they say they put it back in boards worth 250,327 euros or in coffins or boards. There's the money of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. To conclude with something that makes me endlessly happy, which is the spraying of mosquitoes from the Virgin Islands. So, the company that got the money, 31 million dinars again, to develop new mosquito killing technologies is from the Virgin Islands. They were supposed to hire on these Virgin Islands probably at least 40 workers to meet at least a formal condition. Of course, they couldn't find anyone on Virgin Islands who could develop new mosquito killing technology. Since they couldn't do it, then they got a new 173.4 million dinars in 2011 to stop mosquito larvae in the AP Vojvodina. So much for the Democratic Party's policy, Bojan Pajtic, who mutilated the AP Vojvodina, has come up with this which you wanted to talk about today, so people in Vojvodina get chilly when you mention any topic that you're starting. How much he underestimated citizens living in the territory of the northern province of the Republic of Serbia and that he had to give companies money from the Virgin Islands, because it seems that we who live in Novi Sad and Vojvodina don't even know mosquitoes that we kill. I would like to hear the answer not from those present and from the promoters, but from the Democratic Party, by Marinika Tepic, by Aleksandra Jerkov, from these from Enough Anyone from Novi Sad, and now I don't know what group they are in, which party they are in, and I would like to hear what they think about this issue and how they would vote on these drafts of law and on a resolution from the opposition leader who is not here today in the hall, Boška Obradovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52580	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52581	Thank you very much. I thank you for this speech of people who, as MPs, have now referred to our bill of law and resolution, by having several observations. First, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave the opinion that the resolution was not in accordance with the Constitution, but also gave the opinion that the law itself on the financing of Vojvodina is in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. that there is no constitutional obstacle to its adoption. In any case, it remains unclear whether this law we're talking about should have been set differently, which is one version, to fix the amendments, which is another version, or whether it's completely unnecessary, as we've heard there are opinions, because the topic that's already being processed in other laws. All in all, these are things that are very important, but on the other hand I don't understand what this is about, what I'm talking about, there are MPs, colleagues and colleagues of the Parliament, who are not currently in the room, because they have excluded themselves from the possibility of discussing this issue, which, I repeat, is a matter of respect for the Serbian Constitution, which is a question of completing the constitution that should be completed, even more than 10 years ago and a question, therefore which has nothing to do with any party's political agenda, has nothing to do with anything like that. They repeat once again, the story of some kind of forgery, not forgeries, or something like that, is completely deplaced, since I've already, in the last two days, explained what this is all about. The story is that it has something to do with some last intention of LSV or whatever, it also doesn't stand, since the co-authors of this text, i.e. The text was agreed five years ago, four years ago, with representatives of SVM, who themselves said they would vote in favour of the bill, and are part of the ruling majority in this parliament. So here there's a serious confusion about the law itself, about this session that, by some of our colleagues, I don't know the farce or anything, that I absolutely don't feel like it for a clear reason, that we have had the opportunity to talk about something that is constitutionally binding, this Parliament and anyone who is in power, about something that was meant to be resolved many years ago. That is why I do not understand why it is necessary at this point to bring into general the story of Members who have given up their duty to do their parliamentary duty, which is to debate the problems of something that is part of the constitutional obligation, I will repeat the Constitution for which they voted and that, if not them personally, and those parties whose representatives are. So that's what's really surprising and in this light to be very specific, our former DS coalition partners are not there to be able to answer a number of questions, which are completely legitimate and there's nothing controversial about these things, but I suppose some other authorities in charge of that, where LSV of course has a number of issues on the subject of all of the current authorities, including the Dossage Authority, related to certain business and such and such procedures. Of course, I'll repeat, it's the work of the competent investigative authorities, not us in LSV, and I really wouldn't want this initiative to be seen in any way, to correct this injustice against Vojvodina, in the sense of the absence of the financing law turning into some kind of deal with our former coalition partners or anyone who isn't here. Political differences, of course, exist, I am terribly sorry that parliament has been brought into a situation not to be the subject of constructive discussion, as we have had these two days, but rather an outflow of impatience that is so deeply simply losing the basic purpose of Parliament, which is a mutual exchange of ideas, opinions and arguments. Well, in that light, I'd like to ask distinguished colleagues to stick to the subject and stick to the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, to stick to its constitutional basis, to stick to our motion for a resolution. I understand completely why he's acceptable to someone, not acceptable. I understand colleagues who believe that there may not be something well defined, that, I do not know the Serbian national community in Vojvodina must define itself as a Serb people or citizens of Serbian ethnicity. These are all the things we need to talk about, but it's really not a topic, or they're not people who aren't here right now, who, in my personal opinion, are just losing it, and their voters can only wonder what's going on with the votes they've given them. Whether or not they are used correctly and whether this is a constructive approach. Personally, I don't think so, because if I didn't think I wouldn't be here and I don't think I'd be making fun of my colleagues by proposing this law. I'm pretty sure by the parliamentary majority's reactions that this law can hardly get enough votes, to be adopted, especially because I haven't seen enough will and desire to invest in it, so at least try to adapt to the amendments, let's say, to see the problems of the parliamentary majority. But on the other hand, it is extremely important that we have detected in this debate and that our colleagues, let's say, an MP from another part of Serbia, is not from Vojvodina, it bothers us to, say, define ourselves as Vojvodina. I'm so taught I'm a Duke and I don't know how to define myself. If you asked in the middle of the night Minister Nedimovic about how he defines himself. The first definition would be – Sremac. I mean, more specifically, the tram. So it's a matter of personal definition and I don't see what's wrong with it, but that's exactly how much Serbia is a complex state with how many different regional specificities, which felt here in this debate that we've had over the past two days. I think it is already very valuable in itself and helps to change the overall atmosphere in this high house, which is infinitely significant, because Serbia's parliament is Serbia's last dam in front of the executive government dictatorship. Don't forget that keeping Parliament and its dignity is an obligation for everyone, whether in power or in opposition, if it is to preserve the elemental parliamentary democracy. It's my deepest conviction and so I say, let's stick to this topic. I thank another parliamentary majority for putting this proposal on the agenda, regardless of what I have strictly nothing to thank for, given that this is an obligation for anyone who has taken responsibility for Parliament's work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52582	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52583	Thank you, Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I tell Vojvodina to me, the first association is a fertile country that can feed half of Europe. Unfortunately, it's not like that. By 2016, the national cuisine in Vojvodina was full. Ten thousand people in the soup kitchen on an annual level, disaster. That's why I need to talk about who devastated, who pumped out of the province's million-euro budget, which is the tycoon and today's tycoon, which I hope will be processed very quickly, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who robbed the New Technology Drive Subsidy Fund, the Capital Investment and Development Fund, Hetherland, 1.5m euros, Kamenica 35m euros, Tesla-bank 5m euros, the Development Bank, we said we're not going to just mention it because it's in the process, we don't know how many millions of euros. What is most tragic for me is Kamenica-two, Mr Pajtic neatly cut the red tape in 2008 for the start of work and was promised that the hospital would end by 2009. For this, 16.5m euros were allocated, of course, that in 2009, there was no sign of Kamenica-2 or even seven years later. Why do I have to talk, why does this hurt me? Because that hospital served to treat people who had cancer. At the annual level, at least 1200 to 1,400 people were to be examined and cured. Unfortunately, we have data that more than 9800 people have died. I don't want to comment, because I'm ashamed, man, of what that man was doing, it's just unthinkable to me, but let him and those who prosecute him bring it himself. What's unclear to me, where it was given, what's gone, where, 19m euros. For 19m euros, the best highway could be built 19km, 50 kindergartens could be built, another Kamenica could be built, 10 hospitals could be built. It's a shame. That's why we need to talk today about where the money from Vojvodina went missing. Then let's move on. What is amazing is that in 2000 60 000 workers were employed in combination, and in 2016 1500 workers. There used to be over 400 cooperatives, and today four times less. Employment growth was only in local self-governments and institutions where his party colleagues worked. Agriculture has come down to basic work. Natural growth was down by 5.4%. What's even worse, as many as 15% of high school students left school. It's the man who's had the largest number of affairs in the world, not in Serbia, not in the province. Let's just remember the "Bodrum" affair, let's remember the graphite "Death Pajtic", a complete nonsens, because we know it was a fiction, that it was written by his party friend. Let's think of an affair of racketeering, listening, just thinking of a reward for firing workers. The way he fired someone, that's how he got the rewards. They fired hundreds of thousands of workers. The "Vermons" affair, Solar panels, the "Webba" affair, the "Zitohem" affair, my esteemed, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, our president mentioned the "Death Box" affair. Any, it didn't happen again. The "Antifriz" affair in schools, theatres, the "Bethbrush", the president of the Assembly, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, not the province, spoke of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52584	Just keep going, it's all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52585	It's okay. The "Bethbrush" affair, this is interesting, the "Cupus for Inclusion" affair, is what we forgot to say, either way, it never happened again. What's most tragic is actually where the money from the company's mass is. Here I'm going to mention only some companies, subsidies given, are not employees, and the following enterprises are magically missing in a year. He made his own pockets, and the province is not a dinar. It is the company ‘Dandi’, the company ‘Merkator’, and ‘Bio Petrol’, and ‘Zobeks’, and ‘Ekotep’, and ‘Keramika Unika’, etc. I don't have time because another party colleague of mine needs to speak, but I would say what is very important, that fortunately in 2016, the SNS has been coming to power and since then a completely different story has been going on in Vojvodina. What does that mean? That means we started doing what we promised, which we got over 50% of the AP Vojvodina, which means projects, projects and projects alone. We've finally finished the Jell-O Bridge. It's working and ending, finally, at the Subotic National Theatre, then building an emergency medical facility. Also, a science technology park is being built, a new industrial zone. Among other things, they were built in Pancheva, Sombor, Kickindi, Shid, New Vienna, the Mountainyard. Over thirty factories have been opened, employed by tens of thousands of workers. There's a decrease in unemployment. I will mention only some of the factories that are open, that it is not just a clear list – “Calcedonija” Tower, 235 workers employed in 2018. Next, in 2017, “Zopas” employed 690 workers. The Nudli factory in Ruma was opened, 175 workers were employed, Insert opened in Apatin, 126 workers, in Indija 510 workers in IGB, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party has justified its trust, and we will not vote for this resolution and for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52586	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a colleague, Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52587	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is my pleasure to probably be the last speaker in this debate today on this agenda. counterpart Maja Gojkovic, our president, said, as well as counterpart Nenad Canak, what is the purpose and what is the task of this parliament. I'm glad this two-day discussion was like this. We disagree, we have different views, but this is how we should talk in parliament, this is how we should work. I wanted to say a lot of things, but since I won't have time, I was reminded by Mr. Minister Nedimovic, when he said at one point next to the raw materials base, processing capacities are also being done. I, as a man who worked for years with companies from Zrenjanin, Vienna, Bačka Palanka, Sente, cannot help but get the impression that from 1990 to 2000, when I worked intensively in the processing food industry, those pictures when you enter from Ečka to Muzalj in Zrenjanin, you turn right beside Scrobara and despite all those production facilities and manufacturing companies that existed next to the former giant “Servo Mihalja”, there were processors who had not European, but world technology. I will mention "Crua product" Zrenjanin, who at that time worked special flours for "Kroason" on the license of the Paris mills. Nobody does that in this part of Europe anymore. I mention this "Current product" that had the most modern Japanese line for the production of leafed pastry, lines that could at one point produce complete production for the former Yugoslavia. I guess, Vice President, that you're looking at me, that I'm running out of time. Or?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52588	Go ahead, buddy. Go ahead. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52589	And what happened? Why is that, you say, devastated? It's devastated, but it's been devastated since 2000 and it's been here. All these large production plants "Flora" Vienna, "Beceka", "Old Gold", "Gyto Product" Zrenjanin, are gone. You don't have those processing facilities, and that's what someone's been investing in for decades and creating. Then Vojvodina was a little behind Slovenia. Unfortunately, those years that the locusts had eaten up our incomes in Vojvodina. Thank you, since I see the time is up, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52590	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. It is time for the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, whose MPs were still on the list after Mr Bojanic, so there are no more actual statements on the lists of parliamentary groups. Before concluding a joint principled single search, I would like to ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52591	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Minister, esteemed fellow MPs, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will not support the proposed law on the financing of APV, because it believes that such a law cannot be passed without serious comprehensive debates, discussions on which both the province and the republican administration will be involved, discussions that will best address the problem of financing the province from all aspects and propose one quality and unlike this applicable bill. The story of the adoption of the Law on Finance of the APV began immediately after the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, but apparently the implementation of the most shameful robbery privatisation that was then in its zenith, the devastation of budgets and various budget funds, as an interesting conflict within the Democratic Party, led to the law not being passed. Much greater damage than not to adopt the law at that time was the protracted power, first of all, the AP Vojvodina, painted in character and work, or better told by the crime of Bojan Pajtic and his associates. In those years, even a 77% transfer, not just 7% of the Republic budget, would be small to satisfy all the appetites of Bojan Pajtic and the Democratic Party. Instead of passing the Law on the financing of the AP, Pajtic's province as well as Tadic's republican administration dealt with what they were best able to rob the state and citizens. It is precisely with these claims that Aleksandra Jerkov from 2012 said that Bojan Pajtic and the Democratic Party are the biggest culprits for the economic downturn of Vojvodina and that Bojan Pajtic sacrificed the interest of the people of Vojvodina for his function. Since counterpart Jerkov is known as more than a boring politician, regardless of just a few months after this statement was appointed as Pajtic's adviser, apparently for the further collapse of Vojvodina, I am convinced that, only now present in the hall, she would confirm that she is still behind her words. Millions of malfeasances in the Capital Investment Fund robbery of Vojvodina Development Bank, the Heterland affair, Tesla Bank, an affair over the completion of the construction of the New Sad Boulevard, millions of euros embezzled through the Fund for Co-financing of New Technology Drives, the competitions of the province's secretariats, the malversion of the construction of Kamenica 2 are just the tip of the icy mountain in crime that was conducted throughout Vojvodina at the time. Truth be told, no less crime rate was on the republican level either. All this proves, in fact, that the real goal of the five-octobaric street coup was to rob and devastate Serbia. That October 6th, for which they have been crying for years and reportedly mourned by certain DOS leaders, had happened, only that October 6th was never planned as if it needed something important to change in Serbia, except for the change in the material condition of the good part of the people who led the coup. Looking at the private accounts of Gilas, Zivkovic and Pajtic, October 6th was more than successful for them. The topic we are discussing today is the essence of Serbia's functioning and it is in fact a matter of fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when Serbia is an economically stable country according to all economic analyses of domestic and foreign institutions, such a topic could be the subject of a debate within which the issue of funding of the AP Vojvodina could also be resolved if both citizens and state authorities both declare themselves to move to the fiscal decentralisation model. Today, when Serbia, unlike Serbia ten years ago, is a regulated state, we are finally in a situation where we can think about such issues, of course, mainly because of the responsible policy that all the republican governments have led since 2012. The Socialist movement has since its founding advocated the even financing of all parts of the state, which has been the government's policy since the beginning, which we can see through the even distribution of numerous projects financed by the republic's government throughout Serbia, as well as by bringing foreign investors to all parts of our country. A time has passed when more and less privileged Serbian citizens lived in Serbia. Today, but in the future for us, all citizens will be the same, equal, equal. As part of this responsible policy, the Republic government is making every effort to fully fulfil its constitutional commitment of 7% of the funds transferred. Compared to these transfers, the republican and provinceal governments have started a series of major major projects which together finance and with these investments the amount of AP Vojvodina received from the republican budget crosses that prescribed lower limit of 7% in a way that no one in Belgrade, central or southern Serbia is cut off by a single dinar. All this is the result of the policy outlined by Aleksandar Vukic as the prime minister of the Republic, which is being conducted by the current republican government and precisely because of such a responsible and fair economic policy, the Socialist Movement has been giving full support to all governments since 2012. That this policy is fully correct, as well as that the financing of AP Vojvodina is done in a satisfactory way also confirms support in the elections that Aleksandar Vukic and his policies are being won by the citizens of the AP Vojvodina in the previous seven years. Finally, on the Serbian Parliament's resolution on Vojvodina, given that the proposed document is unconstitutional, I would not enter its comments, noting that we will not support the document in the voting day either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-21-0.u52592	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. Is anyone else answering for a word in accordance with Article 96? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. We're finishing our work for today. I would like to thank all the MPs, thank the motionary Mr. Cank, the minister who was with us. We continue our work on Tuesday, March 26, 2019, at 10:00 p.m.
