ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened for Monday, past the days set out in Article 87(1). Rules of Procedure. Before setting out the agenda, acting unanimously. Article 92(2) 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda by emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. National MP Gjorge Komlenski suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the law on enforcement and security be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one of the proposals that we Serbian radicals have been repeating for years at the beginning of every session. If you can just, Mrs. Gojkovic, to secure order in the O.R., some MPs still haven't calmed down. So you're obviously unable to function without pressure, you're used to this bell, and until you hear it, you can't control peace in this room, as you can't even vote. The Serbian Radical Party is persistently trying to convince you that some of the problems we have in the country are being solved through the institutions of the Republic of Serbia. However, you obviously won't, and one of those examples is the murder of Zoran Djindjic, whose political background, and many details of the liquidation itself, until today you haven't investigated, you haven't made it clear to me, and it seems to me to you, as well as to his associates at the time that Zoran Djindjic was killed is worth more dead than he was alive. It was obvious that his Western employers thought so, and therefore many things are repeated in Serbia, which is why no assassinations are resolved in Serbia. We are here, and it may be an opportunity to remind ourselves, to tell the contemporaries, not perhaps witnesses, because the question is whether or not this happened, the alleged assassination of President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. And all the state authorities stood up, all the security services got in the way, and what did they find out? Nothing. She listened to the public for days as it was in the Lambs, whether 97 or 197 security-interested persons, how a huge arsenal of weapons was found, how they wanted to kill him first, and then one of his family's members. But in the end, nothing. What kind of authority are you and what kind of regime are you when you don't want to know the truth about either the murder of the former Prime Minister or the alleged assassinations of the current President of the Republic and the former Prime Minister? So, under the power of SNS, everything in Serbia is an absolute farce, you take everything insecurely, and then you crouch like these or they wish someone else's death.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66874	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly, held in 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66875	Ladies and gentlemen, that three years ago when I proposed this addition to the agenda, you had at least a little political wisdom, that you could politically see what was ahead of you, I'm sure you would have accepted this proposal. It was an opportunity for the National Assembly to determine what irregularities occurred in previous parliamentary elections, and it was the right time to regulate them in a legally valid manner, timely, electoral manner. This is how you came to shame Serbia daily, to change the laws of the last moment under the pressure of foreigners, although there are rules of democracy that say that at least a year before the elections themselves, any of the electoral legislation should not be changed. You have experienced that European parliamentarians, who do not mean much in their own countries, teach lectures, gather you, some in restaurants, some in hotel lobbys, some here in small congregation halls and in cabinets, and dictate the conditions you need to meet in order for the EU to be satisfied with you. What does the EU have to do with the date of the elections in Serbia? What does the EU have to do with REM members? Didn't all of you, by yesterday, claim that the opposition's request, the pro-European opposition, that new REM members are elected, something that is meaningless, something that is against the law and something that is absolutely impossible. Then overnight what was impossible becomes possible. You under the pressure of some Tanja Fajon, the one "Frankensatena" and several others who come to you as European envoys, I must note that there have never been another Western emissaries on various issues in Serbia, you are obliged to fulfill it. It is not about any partnership, it is not about any agreement, it is about a dictatorship, it is about a foreign dictatorship and it is a big question whether Serbia is a sovereign state and whether it can be called a sovereign state in which lower European officials dictate when elections will be held, what election laws will be, what composition of REM, whether it is a legal and legitimate blockade of RTS and a lot more. Let's do it once, let's get out of here. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66876	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Is he here? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66877	Ladies and gentlemen, we witness daily the tragic fates of children who are left without parents, who literally have nothing to eat, live in inhumane conditions, and then, since there is no systematic solution for such situations, then if those children have some good neighbors who manage to somehow push their tragic fate into the media, then all known and unknown to help such children and it is certainly good, but it is not good that the state does not do so, which is not done by local self-government. The state resorts to the worst solution, especially when it comes to children whose parents are alive, normal, healthy, real, but in a very difficult material situation. The state, therefore, resorts to the simplest solution for the state, which is giving children to foster families. The foster families for every child they take to guard receive 50,000 dinars a month. Unfortunately, that human motive has long been lost, mostly making it a serious business. We think it's not good at all, that the Family Law has to change, that local self-government is obliged to record on their territory, to determine exactly how many such families are, how many children are self-sustaining, who live with elderly and sick grandparents, and to provide local self-government with such families. If it were done that way, then the state would certainly be relieved and this would be simpler, this would be something that could be resolved very quickly and we would stop texting and read in the paper how hard some kids who aren't guilty of having their lives set up for such a fate. We are also proposing for more than a year that the adoption of our children can only be done in the state of Serbia. We are against the adoption of children by foreign persons, because it also makes business, because we still have unresolved situations and problems with the doubts of the kidnapped children from the maternity ward, and that is why we think all of this indicates that it is necessary that the Family Law be put on the agenda, that we carefully comb it and bring it into the interest of the protection of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66878	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 11 against – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66879	The reputation of the National Assembly is seriously threatened by the congregation’s majority, for the congregation majority are the only ones who can influence it. The reputation of the National Assembly and dignity are compromised because you have allowed serious political, internal political issues, conditions for holding elections to be debated outside this hall, because you have allowed some Tanja Fajon and any worn-out European officials to set up fate, to order you what you should do and what you should not do. You've been talking for five days or five months, you don't care, you don't listen to anyone, you know what to do, and when they squeeze you a little bit more, forget what you said and what you said. You are also witnesses and in the debates here are often heard that some MPs are flyers, that some MPs are walking with a parliamentary mandate from one Parliament group to another, and that is correct and that is, the most unethical thing a MP can do. And we have since October last year convinced you that amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs have been put on the agenda, to return to the law a provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the MP is free to make his mandate available to the list from which he was elected as a MP. We really don't see what's going on here, what would bother one of you who would vote for this. I believe that everyone cares about protecting the electoral will of citizens, and this is one way to rightly protect the electoral will of citizens. There are many ways, both in the polling post and in the election campaign, etc. And we talk about it, and we'll talk about it. But the basic way to restore dignity to the National Assembly is to call on the National Assembly from the following, when parliamentary groups are established, to keep it up until the end, not to make every day new parliamentary groups, not to let MPs walk with a mandate under the mouse, so who does. I guess this is amazing that we have MPs who have changed four or five political parties during this assembly term alone. We continue to insist on it, don't wait for Tanya Fajon to order you to do something like that, she won't, because she and the others who come with her are in the interest that nothing works properly in Serbia. You are mistaken if you think they care about the political situation in the country. No, it's not. So once again we tell you and appeal, listen to the SRS proposal. We are serious, state-efficient and we are those who want good and the state of Serbia and who want to restore dignity to the National Assembly. That's what we've been working on since we were in the National Assembly. Once again, please accept this proposal. It's in the general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66880	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 11 against – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but there was no one who voted 146 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66881	The government in Serbia has been constantly showing inadmissible indolence towards the issue and position of the Serb people in Montenegro since 2006. These amendments to the law aim to help all Serbs who want to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as this enabled them to the 2006 Constitution, as well as the 2007 Citizenship Act. Did you ask yourself, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and especially you from the SNS, who, along with Alexander Vukic, have promised the Serbs of Montenegro that you would improve and allow them to gain citizenship, to facilitate their lives and possibly save themselves from the persecution of Milo's anti-Serbian government, why didn't you do so and why didn't you start this issue from a dead spot for so many years? A hundred years ago, more precisely after World War I ended, according to the 1919 census in Montenegro, in Serbia's Montenegro, more than 90% of them were said to be members of the Serb people. Today that number is down by two-thirds. It is you, who do nothing to help them in such a situation that you ignore all their requests for help and their aspirations to connect with the queen of Serbia, who are doing everything you can to further assist anti-Serbian Milo's mob authorities in assimilation of our people in Montenegro. Many of them have great problems in their employment, when training their children because they are unable to quickly and efficiently, as the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in the first proposal predicted and how you swore to them exactly when you asked for their votes, all those who have the right to vote here, that you would decide that they could get it very quickly and members of their families. Why does it matter? For the Serbs from Montenegro, it is important that they can, therefore, take the longest time in six months, if they submit that request, and many of them have submitted and waited for years, just like the Serbs from Republika Srpska, that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is fully identified with their queen Serbia, because they want it. If you did so, if you would accept this amendment to the law, a huge number of those who failed to apply for citizenship would also be threatened by the phantom project Milo Djukanovic on the creation of a new, therefore, artificial nation that never existed in history, and would help our people to exercise their rights here in their home country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66882	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – ten, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP Rose Nikolic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66883	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled a bill amending the Law on the Transplant of Human Authorities and the proposed amendment concerns Article 23 of this Law. The amendments proposed are aimed at eliminating the assumed consent of every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as the assumed consent leaves a huge space for abuse and can lead to trafficking in human organs, although it is explicitly prohibited by law and treated as a criminal offence. The law stipulates that organs are taken from a deceased person unless that person has been orally or written against it and thus there is absolutely no guarantee that at that time such a person will pass on information to anyone whether or not he wants to be a donor. It's also very discussionable and the question of brain death, and when a man is practically still alive, and we know that organs are taken from only living faces. Also, Article 23. The human organ transplant law, whose alterations we are looking for, is violated by Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that physical and psychological integrity is inviolable and that no one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment, nor subject to medical or scientific views without free consent. Article 23 of this Act violates Article 23. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that human dignity is unimpeached and that everyone is obliged to respect and protect it, and that everyone has the right to freely develop a person unless it violates the rights of others. So, the proposed changes are in the direction of abolishing the assumed consent to donate human organs in the event of death, and we insist on abolishing exactly this assumed consent, or we demand an amendment to the anti-constitutional Article 23. The law on human organ transplants, because the law cannot impose something that is contrary to the Constitution and organ donation for transplantation, is only possible if it is the only will of the donor and the donor cannot be called anyone whose organs are taken apart from his will and present it all as a voluntary act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66884	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 11 against – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66885	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and declare the AP KiM border according to the rest of Serbia as an international border. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and there is no talk of any division or distinction, and that is the attitude of all Serbs with KIM. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should therefore be no compromise on state territory, while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that the adoption of this law that I have proposed will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66886	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - was voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66887	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, to be completed on the agenda. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborns, the number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people leaving the country have been reported, so the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse, so a large number of families face a lack of funding, which directly reflects the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security in terms of giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Financial Support Act with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. As regards the financial resources needed to implement this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money for the payment of child and parental allowances, as the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia and stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We witness the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia. Young people leave, young married couples with small children. Those who leave will surely never return. But all efforts need to be made to keep those who are there. If it continues to go deaf about our proposals, it means that the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66888	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 11 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, was voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to supplement the agenda of this session, which I filed in front of the SRS, refers to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, where I asked for the addition of two members relating to the destruction of the drug that is not for further use. I have to tell you that ever since I got this topic, I have used every opportunity and often abused in society the presence of inspectors, psychologists, doctors and other experts in this area to shed light on this phenomenon with several different aspects. Drugs are a general social problem, which is not easy to deal with, even if the fight is milky, no heat, no real campaign, no wonder the drugs are so rooted and spread. In Serbia, there is so much ossified production of drugs, they have discovered entire plantations under the planting of these plants, whole families are dealing with this, called the family business, and the recent case of Stara Paza says that the entire companies are also organised by the production of these plants. This is also the reason why all of these successes that are being talked about every day about detecting plantations and laboratories, taking away large amounts of drugs and arresting drug dealers, as if not touching the Serbian drug market. Recently, the police minister provided one piece of information that more than six tonnes of narcotics were taken for the first 11 months of this year, about 600kg or 20kg a month. This is a large amount for the small Serbian market. However, when I asked experts how much the Old Paz case will reflect on the Serbian drug market, they told me -- it's like you've caught a barrel of water from the Olympic pool. The other day, a larger amount of marijuana, 221kg, was also seized at the Gostun border crossing. The issue of the legalisation of cannabis production, where the opinion of the professional public was split, was again raised, and the view prevailed that cannabis is addictive. Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't want to become a sick society, and we're almost in a nocdown, and if we don't want to be knocked out, to use this boxing termology, we all have to as a system, as a society, to do much more in the fight against this growing monster of modern times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66890	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there was no one who had abstention for - 11 MPs, against - there was no one who had abstention - who voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no one against the abstentions. There was no one who voted 147 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation and Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS first submitted to this high house the draft law to repeal the law on enforcement and security on 15 October 2018. Counting that those who were creators of such a law are already outside this Parliament and that even when they are there, they do not play a significant role in challenging this law, that we will find understanding with our fellow Members of Parliament who support this government. However, there was no success and we must first say who the public perpetrators are, who they are in the status sense. In a status sense, public contractors are private entrepreneurs to whom the state has passed certain powers by law, and how they do so and what they are in practice, and that is only a particular issue. In practice, they act very often as if they were in another country, as if they had to do against their citizens, and this is almost a rule without exception. Of the 214 public executioners and three of their deputies, almost no positive example could be given of those who do this work, including some skill. Immediately, to make it clear to both you and the citizens of Serbia, the SRS does not advocate that debtors do not settle their obligations. On the contrary, each one must comply with his obligations, but in accordance with legal possibilities, that is, according to the regulations. Very often, these perpetrators exceed all authority. Very often, they are in co-operation with representatives of the judiciary, with police, and then Serbian citizens come into a very, very difficult situation. When we noticed that we couldn't get the support of the ruling majority for this law, and we calculated that it was realistic, that it was possible, then we went into signing, so we collected more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens for two months. I have to tell you that this is a good practice that we could see the situation and that a small number of, of course, there are, that a small number of members of the SRS who have special and big problems with these perpetrators. In order to thank the citizens of Serbia who gave us this support and made a commitment for us, we have printed a special edition of "The Great Serbia". Now we share this copy with those who gave us the signature for this support. We personally think that a certain result has already come because of this activity, and these are amendments and additions to the laws that came about half this year. It is not the extent to which we want it and we will continue with our activities, but we have managed to act at least to reduce tariffs, tariffs that charge, or compensation for our services to public executioners. They're not the biggest and only problem. They certainly go beyond the basic debt several times, but that's not the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66892	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, that 147 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Traffic Safety Act on Roads, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, 147 MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Fertilisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, 147 MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Seselj, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Executive Procedure and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 22 MPs of the SRS Group on 17 September 2019. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66893	Dear Mr Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, handed over more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens in half of September and a new draft law on executive procedure and security that would finally be removed from our legal system by public enforcement. So, in less than two months, we have reached more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens. That tells you about the intensity of the problem our citizens face. We heard last week in a debate on amendments that representatives of the ruling parties also advocate a more serious debate. So now I don't see any reason why this doesn't come to the agenda, especially since we've seen representatives of both the SNS and the SPS and the Socialist Movement. Even the Citizens' Protector talked about tariffs, i.e. The harras who are taking from the citizens of Serbia. So these are people who extract extra profits from debt-trust relations and everything on the burden of those most in debt in Serbia, and the practice has shown us and this is clear, that those who are the most in debt continue to be in debt and have no danger of the executioner being charged out of their property, and those who miss two wars are being seized by the apartment, by the real estates that public perpetrators confiscate. Most often, honoring exceptions, dividing one another, come to real estate at many times lower prices than market prices. And on top of that, when they drive people out of those apartments, they charge these exorcised people the cost of that exorcism. The issue of public enforcement best shows the line of continuity between DS and SNS. So, the first one introduced this into Serbia, this monster that has been here for eight years, and the SNS that criticised this issue, which did not vote to support the perpetrators while they were in opposition, after they came to power, they all support it and the perpetrators have full support. You can see that through the M.O.P.'s work. So, the MUP, or police, is acting as private security, as bodyguards of public enforcement in the process of seizing the property of Serbia's overindebted citizens. That's why I think this support should be abolished and this matter discussed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66894	I thank my colleague Seselj. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Petar Jojic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law on the non-compliance of the Law on Public Registration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President, Serbia has to regulate its legislation according to changed circumstances. Public notebooks and public executioners are, as Mr. Seselj said, harachli. The tariff for public notebooks is unacceptable for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if five times the tariff for public notebooks is higher than the tariff just held by regular courts. In public notebooks, it is also a very interesting case that a censorship for a public notary is needed in some place by 25,000 residents. However, the SRS believes they should be abolished, and even if they were to remain there, they should, in any case, reduce the censorship to 10,000 inhabitants. It is not clear why public execution sites are not being filled in by municipalities. You have a case of citizens traveling 30, 40, 50 kilometers to verify a contract in one place, not in a court where it's been so far. Today, you're waiting for the overtures in public notebooks for days. The notebooks have become really harrakes. Here, from their tariff, what does this amount they determine and charge? Imagine if the value of the item is one contract of 600,000 dinars, in which case 10,800 dinars are paid. But imagine how great masters, smugglers and frauds are, if the value is over 600,000 and one dinar, they increase double, for that one dinar is now over 18 thousand, and in courts there were 1,800 dinars. Now you see how many times this is a bigger robbery of Serbian citizens. Imagine, too, how it's possible that after so many years they don't fill in the notebooks. Why? You have, as Mr. Sreto Peric said, 214 public perpetrators, about 200 public notebooks, so you have about 500 people in Serbia who are enormously rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66896	Thank you, colleague Jojic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 137 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Petar Jojic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia must finally start reforming the judiciary and reforming legislation, especially when it comes to system law. You see what kind of justice we have, today you've had a chance to read in the paper that a criminal promised a child and got a year in prison. What kind of justice do we have? How is it possible that Bastac could not have been detained or deprived of liberty after a month and a half, or invited as a suspect, but was called as a citizen, however, he was heard as a suspect. How is it possible for a month and a half to wait for his hearing? I also point out to the ruling coalition that it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure when it comes to the necessary defence. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to amend and supplement the criminal code provision, in the part where it would be said that it is not a crime that was done in the necessary defence. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been witnesses years ago to commit tens of tens and tens of thousands of rapes, muggings, muggings, but that the law has not regulated according to the comparative right of other states that a citizen in such a situation has the right to use arms, tools and has the right to self-defense to protect his life, his family's life, his property and the property of other persons, at the cost of depriveing him of his life on the spot if he entered private property unauthorized. So, as a lawyer with over 30 years of profession, I've had the chance to deal with dozens of cases like these that happen and rape, and robbery, and murder, and assault property, and attack on citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66898	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 11 against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Petar Jojic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. Does the MP, Petar Jojic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said it is necessary to make changes to the Code of Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. First of all, citizens under the law must be equal. However, when it comes to the court, the public prosecutor's office and the functioning of our legal system, it is not and is not in line with the provisions of Articles 36 and other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, when a public prosecutor file an indictment and does not come to the main investigation, the court postpones the main search and schedules for another term. However, if a citizen submits a private criminal suit or appears before the court as damaged, in that case, unless he has joined the main investigation, the court shall suspend the proceedings. Therefore, I believe that the parties to the proceedings before the court must be evened out. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to judicial reform, parole in the Republic of Serbia is not respected in terms of the provisions of Article 46. Criminal code. Namely, in Article 46. The criminal code provides that the convicted shall have the right to parole if he has endured two-thirds of the penalties. However, this is not respected and that is not the way courts do. You have a case that a man got parole seven days before his eight-year sentence expires, and the man refused parole, because he was humiliated to the point where he didn't want to go out, and he didn't want to act on such an application and a solution to a court of law. What's the matter? The guards had to get him out of jail. Therefore, the reform of our legislation and justice must finally be implemented. I ask the question to the government - why is no list of candidates proposed by the State's Council of Prosecutors for the election of prosecutors to those vacant places that exist in Serbia, and they are 34? Why is this allowed, and you know that more than 30 public prosecutors and deputies leave Belgrade in other places and cities, and that they are paid large costs that are recorded hundreds of millions of amounts, but it is not clear why public prosecutors are not elected if the state's larger prosecutors delivered...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66900	Thank you, colleague Jojic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica on 4 November 2019. Does MP George Komlensky want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66901	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, on 1 January 2020, will be natural for exactly 10 years since judges for violations and mistrials were introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. All of them have been introduced all the obligations that belong to the judges, but what is the right judge, the Republic of Serbia, has not properly regulated them when judges who judge criminal matter. The salaries of judges who judge criminal matter, who act and work in criminal courts are not equal to the judges of other courts. The reason I don't know, since the High Council of the Judiciary backed that initiative and stood to the point that it should be done. The Department of Justice has repeatedly declared that wages should be leveled, so we have come to the situation in which we are. The increase, i.e. the harmonisation of judges' salaries in criminal matter, would cost the Republic of Serbia about 220 million dinars annually. How insignificant the funds are in relation to what lawless courts throughout the Republic of Serbia are doing in their work, the following data is being reported in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In 2018, only a violation court in Belgrade imposed a billion and 222 million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget and on the name of fines. The judges' salaries and the entire staff of this Belgrade Criminal Court were 465 million dinars. So more than 800 million dinars were introduced into the Republic of Serbia's budget only by the Belgrade Criminal Court, and where were the other misdemeanor courts throughout the Republic of Serbia? Only 221 million dinars at an annual level are enough to equalise the profits of all judges at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Dear fellow judges for violations are not the burden of this budget, they earn their wages. The burden of this budget is NGOs, of course not all, but many of them working contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia and I ask you to support me in this proposal to put this on the agenda once.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66902	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote, a total of 146 MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote, a total of 147 MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing - no one has joined the vote by a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Society "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote, and I am saying - no one has joined the vote from a total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing - no one has joined the vote by a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing - no one has joined the vote by a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am announcing that no one has joined the vote, out of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, with abstentions, has ever voted 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one has joined the vote, out of the 145 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP want a word? No, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, no one who is abstentioned, has voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's almost eight years since I got the call of honorary professor, Volgograd State Agricultural University. Since then, I've only been four times, this is the fourth time I've worn this costume, or the uniform I got back then. I have reason to publicly announce that the Rector of the University of Volgograd State Agrarian University, Alexei Semyonovich Ovchinnikov, was called a regular member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, as the most scientific title in the Russian Federation. It is about an exceptional friend and respecter of the Serb people, who has been in Serbia several times, along with delegations from the Volgograd area and I think that his promotion deserves to be promoted here as well. At the same time, I would like to suggest, by who knows which way, that the National Assembly should put into the agenda a proposal for a declaration of genetically modified organisms. So far, I have read songs written by Ljubvoje Rsumović and others, and now I have asked Milan Ružić, who recently published the book "The People for Release", whose reviewers are Matija Bećković, Emir Kusturica and Milos Kovic, and I recommend that you read about GMO and "Monsant", which he wrote: "Dear Mr. Ševarlic, I am sending you my short contribution, there is a long drive for the great forces to achieve the planet's planet Earth discharge plan. “ It is a reduction in the world’s population, from seven and a half billion today, to the so - called “golden billion. ” That desire has been subjected to many crimes, in which we, in Serbia, have served exclusively as victims. The American "Monsanto" for two decades was a barricade to achieve the plan, and then the role was played by Germany's "Bajer". Why do biogenocyal "golden billions" creators impose GMOs on us? Because it's easier, cheaper and more covert to plant GMOs in the country and serve death in a plate than to sow bombs. I don't know why we would willingly run for new victims by poisoning our children and fields, making such a contribution to the biogenocy of the planet Earth. The introduction of GMOs is the sowing of the people by death. Thank you for being loud about this subject, because it's too important to keep this quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66904	Thank you, Professor. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic based on 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting my colleague's clothing modification, respecting the color of John Dire, green and yellow, I just came to say, that the viewers would not be mistaken by the law on GMOs, by law, is forbidden to grow and traffic genetically modified organisms. So that's forbidden in the state of Serbia. The declaration required by my colleague in the colors of John Dire is not a legally binding document. The law is a legally binding document. Asking for a declaration to be brought into doubt by a law which explicitly as a legally binding document says that it is prohibited to traffic, import and grow GMOs is a huge mistake that is already prohibited by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66906	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66907	Thank you. Just since last session, where I tabled this proposal, so, just the last two weeks, we have a few more very worrying facts or indications that I would say confirm the need for this little bit to look radical, but I would say a necessary and comprehensive proposal. So, just for the last ten days, the U.S. Treasury Department has called and put in, imposed sanctions on a series of individuals, individuals related to this particular area that I'm talking about right now. So, the arms industry, or the dedicated industry, and some of the people that are related to these very most mentioned companies, private companies that own production, or owned in the sale of the product of the dedicated industry, not only Krusik but also other our factories. So, a series of people I'm saying are involved in the arms trade that have been hit by sanctions from the U.S. Department of Finance. Now, we as citizens, as a people, have quite a bad experience with these sanctions, because we know that sanctions can be justified and can be unjust, so I would like to have, in addition to all the other reasons I've already stated here, to have private intermediaries kicked out of traffic and arms trafficking, so I'd like to know what this is all about right now. So, are these sanctions justified or unwarranted? If it were a state-owned company, maybe again because of some interest or a grudge from some of the world's powers, those faces, responsible persons in these companies to sanctions, might or may not be. This way we don't know if it's some kind of marifeluk and manipulation or whether it's simply that those personalities are dealing with illicit business, or if it's about someone being picked up or being in a state of interest. So, that's why it's important to know that the production and transport of weapons is a government job, no matter how rare it may sound to some and some colleagues. We don't hear that the German "Spiggle" published a text yesterday that said a very rough wording, quote -- state crime, that here in traffic under "Krusik" is about state crime with the support of the state. So what the public, at least part of the public and the opposition is talking about now and the most prominent German weekly, has also published a large text on the subject, noting and stressing - state crime with the support of the state. If that's true, if it's slander or really has elements of what's being said, or now the world's and domestic press, I'd like it to be determined, and to start off not to hunt down the mosquitoes individually, but to dry out that estate bar that produces this malignant disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66908	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two and two, there is no one, who has not voted. 143 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice", launched in Kosovo Mitrovica, on 16 January 2018, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66909	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is literally the last time I'm going to talk about this in this form in the National Assembly. I have repeatedly suggested, repeatedly explained why it is in the interest of both Serbian citizens, and the majority of the assembly in this session, the Serbian Parliament, in the interest of forming a survey committee to determine the facts of the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, both because of the importance that Mr Ivanovic had for Serbs in northern Kosovo and in general in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in northern Kosovo and Metohija. In the protection of that population, in the defense of several branches since 1999, and here, so he and his associates played a very important role, of course not only him but many others there. He was also a symbol of fighting for the preservation of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, both for tolerance and for dialogue, and for talks with Albanians, as well as with representatives of the International Community. Just like that, he seems to have bothered those who don't like dialogue. So we have a duty in some way, at least that's how I feel about him and his family, to form this survey board, and I think it would be a very useful and comprehensive thing, and given the accusations that are circulating and that are heard about the involvement of some elements and some of the Serb elements in that liquidation. As terrible as it may be to hear, let alone confirm, I think that we as a state and as a National Assembly are obliged to establish the full truth, and that is why we prevent and reduce the possibility of manipulation of the Pristina side. They're running an investigation, they're pressing charges, they're investigating warrants. So, of course, our hands are somewhat tied, but it is important to demonstrate in this way the will of the highest legislative body, to establish this truth, not to push it under the carpet. For the last time I'm talking about it, I'm not going to propose it anymore. I appeal to the assembly majority and the public to take this seriously, if it is in the interest, I say, not now our debt to Mr Oliver Ivanovic, although there is certainly that, but above all, our obligation to remove any suspicion that the state of Serbia is directly or indirectly involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66910	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two and two, no one who is abstentioned, who has not voted - 145 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators and the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragana Solak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Risitičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in March 2004, I was in Kosovo Mitrovica with Oliver Ivanovic at the time. Mr. Vukadinovic was walking through Belgrade at the time, it was extremely dangerous. Albanians never forgot Oliver Ivanovic in 2004 and in 1999, when he prevented the KLA terrorists from crossing the territory of northern Mitrovica. Today, if it hadn't been for Djorge Vukadinovic and Vojislav Kostunica, Albanians would not have had a candidate for prime minister. He thinks it's funny. At the time, he strongly supported Kostunica, who, with his signature, abolised Kurti and the 2018 Albanian terrorists. And I say, almost responsibly, that Albanians, meaning one of those 2018 Albanian terrorists, some of whom have been allegedly politicians and called statesmen, killed or ordered to kill Oliver Ivanovic. These TV channels I mentioned, and these MPs like this, they're gonna blame it on the Serbs. While all of us are being attacked from the outside, they attack us from the inside, wanting to prove an hour after the murder that the Serbs did, not Albanians, who were terrorists and who shut him down twice and... The state trial, I think, is two years in custody. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as arms trafficking is concerned, the second proposal by Djordje Vukadinovic, is another attempt inside to weaken Serbia's military and dedicated industry. Krusik, First Partizan, Luciani, lost 80m euros worth of contracts after the campaign. The campaign was led by those and their journalist from Bulgaria Gajtangjiev and Bulgarians who received a 80m-euro job that lost our dedicated industry, which was exhaling while they ruled, now that it has recovered, as it collapses as power, is now being torn down as an opposition, wanting to lower our dedicated industry and produce a string on the one they left behind. This is the first time a Serb, who has represented himself as Vlah and has admitted to being falsely representing himself and trying to steal the national identity of a minority, is the first time a Vlach has worked in favour of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66912	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote – 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move on to the establishment of the agenda and the motion to merge the debate, I ask you to re-establish the quorum. I find there are 128 MPs present in the O.R. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out the first joint search on: the draft law on public procurement, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society, the draft law amending and supplementing the law of the law of the law on public debt law, the draft law on amendments to the law of the law on the law on money laundering and on the financing of terrorism, the draft law amending and supplementing the law of the law on the terms of the law of the Republic of Serbia in the provisions of the law of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending the Treaty on the Customs Tariff, the draft law on the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the law on the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the law on the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Do the peoples have an MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – there was no vote by one of the 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for the agenda for an emergency session, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – there was no vote by one of the 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. The draft law on public procurement, which was submitted by the Government, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society Law, which was submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Public Debt, which was submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Changes of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted by the law on the terms of the law of the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia on the terms of the law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, was adopted by the Act on the law of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the law on the law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia's 2015 Budget, submitted by the Government, 34. Proposal for a final bill for the 2016 Serbian budget, submitted by the Government, 35. Proposal for a law on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, which was submitted by the Government and 36. The draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, which was submitted by the government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the meetings of Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Nela Kuburović, Justice Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management with Ministry associates. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financing of Terrorists, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Changes of Public Debts, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Prevention of Money and Finance of Terrorism, Proposal for a Law on the Amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, Proposal for a Law on Exchanges and Supplements to the Law on the Games, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tobaccos, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Customs Tariff, Proposal for an Amendments to the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Laws of Laws of the Freedoms and of Laws on the Laws of the Laws of Conduct and of the Laws on the Laws of Conduct and of the Laws on the Laws of Conducts of the Laws of Conduct and of the Laws of the Laws of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Laws of Conduct. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66913	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a set of draft laws and I will try briefly to present each of them and the key changes to each of them. The first in a series is the proposal for a law on public procurement, and the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are the following: the harmonisation of the legislative framework in the field of public procurement with EU rules and the fulfilment of one of the criteria for the creation of the negotiating chapter 5, public procurement and obtaining a positive assessment of the European Commission in the annual report, the implementation of one of the main objectives defined by the public procurement programme in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2019/2023 years, the creation of conditions for more efficient implementation of public procurement procedures, the increase of competition with cost reductions and administrative procedures, the promotion of the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement procedures, more effective protection of public procurement rights. The most important solution and the paper proposed by law are the following: new amounts of thresholds have been established to which the law is not applied and thresholds for the application of the law in accordance with the practice of EU Member States in the environment. A new public procurement portal is being introduced to allow the implementation of the public procurement process by electronic means, communication and data exchange in the procurement process, including the submission of tenders will take place electronically through the public procurement portal. This will ensure greater transparency in public procurement procedures, and the opening of offers will also take place by electronic means, which will help increase the confidence of operators in the system, and consequently increase competition levels in public procurement procedures. After that, the method of proving compliance with the criteria for the qualitative selection of the economic operator will be simplified. The compliance with these criteria will be demonstrated by the submission of a statement by an economic operator in a standard form, which confirms that the economic operator meets all the required criteria for participation in the procurement procedure. In this way, economic operators confirm that there are no legal grounds for exclusion from the procurement procedure. This solution will contribute to increasing efficiency, reducing costs and administrative burdens for economic operators when preparing offers, which is of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises. The types of public procurement procedures and the conditions for their implementation are fully in line with EU rules. A new type of public procurement process is being introduced, and this is an innovation partnership. Public procurement of social and other specific services consisting of services in the fields of health and social protection, culture and the like will be carried out by a special, lighter regime in terms of shorter deadlines in the process, the limit for the application of the provisions of this law, the reporting of completed contracts. New techniques and instruments for the award of contracts, qualification systems and electronic catalogues are also introduced. The draft law introduces new criteria for the award of contracts in the procurement process. Public procurement contracts will be awarded to the most economically favourable offer that is determined on the basis of price or cost, or price and quality ratios, i.e. costs and quality, which will certainly contribute to increasing the quality of goods, services and works. The conditions for amending the contract on public procurement are specified, which will remove doubts about the possibility of amending the contract. Also, the reasons for the termination of public procurement contracts have been specified. The supervision of the public procurement contract will be carried out by the ministry in charge of finance affairs. In the area of protection of rights in public procurement procedures, solutions are envisaged to make the right protection process more effective. Exports of administrative fees for the application for protection of rights have been reduced. It is also prescribed that applicants be required to protect the right to provide evidence of the payment of taxis when they are submitted. Otherwise, the request will be rejected without a prior call by the applicant to regulate such a request. The decision on infringements of the prescribed Public Procurement Act will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the criminal courts. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act. The company law, as a law of particular importance for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the creation of a favourable business environment for the establishment and business of business operators, needs to be amended and complemented with the goal of further improving the business environment. In developed market economies, such as the US economy and EU countries, it is a practice to stimulate employees in a business society to do their jobs better, giving them the opportunity to become members of that company. This refers in particular to a specific type of stimulation, giving options to gain participation in the capital of a company at a favourable price. This way of stimulation has proved particularly effective in the information technology industry, given that these companies have limited resources in the initial phase of business, so they are not able to pay high wages to quality staff. On the other hand, these companies have a great potential for rapid growth, and thus the possibility for members of this company to make quite large profits in the case of the sale of the equity stake that was acquired for relatively small money in the initial stage of business. In view of the above, the fact that companies have the opportunity to stimulate employees, investors, consultants and the like to acquire company actions at a privileged price by giving option action, as well as the fact that companies with limited liability are the most represented in the structure of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, the bill allows companies with limited responsibility to stimulate their employees, consultants, investors and the like. The main objectives of amending and supplementing those laws are to allow companies with limited liability to stimulate their employees, consultants, investors and similar issue of a financial instrument, the right to acquire the shares that give the holders of this financial instrument the right to gain a share in a society of a given day with a favourable price, to employees in a limited liability society and to participate in the distribution of profits, to stimulate economic growth, especially further growth of industry, information technologies and to enable companies in that area to operate in accordance with standards, which are generally accepted in the world, thus enabling companies with limited responsibility, which operate in the Republic of Serbia, to use generally accepted instruments for the award of employees, consultants, investors and similar capital in such way. In front of you today's agenda, there is also a bill on amendments and additions to the Public Debt Act. The reasons for the adoption of the law stems from the fact that it is necessary to make it possible to make securities more accessible in terms of value denominated in foreign investors' dinars, to approach EU standards, to reduce funding costs and better diversification of investors in domestic securities of value, as well as better control of the borrowing of units of local self-government. You have before you a bill on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The reasons for the adoption of the law are to comply with the requirements of new EU rules, more specifically with the Fifth Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, as of 30 May 2018, which relate to preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. Elimination of the shortcomings found in the second report on the enhanced monitoring of the Republic of Serbia by the Manival Committee, the Council of Europe's body dealing with the assessment of the compliance of national money laundering and terrorist financing systems of the Member States of the Council of Europe with international standards of FATF, as well as the removal of observed shortcomings in the application of existing legal solutions. The final objective of the law is to increase the assessment of compliance with FATF recommendations. In other words, if the recommendations are not adequately transposed into domestic legislation, there is no possibility of them being properly implemented by the debtors, as well as by state authorities. It is therefore necessary that recommendations be transposed and prescribed by this law, creating a legal framework for the establishment of an effective system for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and in particular its preventive work. The key changes are the following, regulating the obligations of lawyers and public notebooks. Lawyers and public notebooks in the current law were designated as bonds or actions and measures required to apply, not adequate to their status as debtors. Public notebooks have become almost equal to lawyers with respect to the obligations they are required to make in accordance with the law by amending and supplementing this law. The circle of obligations related to lawyers and public notaries is expanded, which means that their engagement in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing will be strengthened, all in order to comply with international standards. The definition of new law enforcement obligations, postal traffic agents and wallet cascade providers are included in a group of taxpayers applying the provisions of the law. The supervision of auditors is no longer carried out by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, but by the Commission for Securities of Values under the Audit Act. A unique register of cash and safe registers has been introduced. The establishment of a single register of cash registers is aimed at accessing data on cash transferees, without establishing a business relationship with the payment service provider, i.e. past accounts opened in banks. Today’s agenda also includes the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. The objectives of the proposed law are the following, further steps are being taken in the digitisation process through the monitoring of European and world trends in electronic business, the transparency of work as a state, as well as economic operators. It reduces the potential for corruption and unregistered transactions, which suppresses the appearance of grey economy, achieves savings in time and material costs when electronic invoices are issued. The draft law provides for the introduction of obligations for creditors, public sector operators in commercial transactions in which public sector entities are obliged to register electronic invoices and other payment requirements in electronic form in an electronic invoice system. The system of electronic invoices is a system, i.e. the database through which creditors register and deliver electronic invoices to debtors, i.e. public sector entities. A system of electronic invoices is established and run by the Ministry of Finance. The introduction of the obligation to register and deliver electronic invoices in the electronic invoice system is foreseen as of 1 July 2021. The optional registration of electronic invoices in electronic invoices for creditors will be possible before 1 July 2021, following the establishment of technical and technological conditions for registration. Since 1 July 2021, trusts in commercial transactions, in which public sector debtors would no longer be obliged to register invoices issued in the central invoice register, but registered electronic invoices in the electronic invoice system would be automatically recorded in the central invoice register for further monitoring of deadlines, settlement of monetary obligations prescribed by the Law on time limits and settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. On the day of registration of the electronic invoice in the electronic invoice system, it would be considered that the trustee provided the electronic invoice to the debtor, i.e. the public sector entity. The debtors would have an obligation to settle the money obligations by electronic invoice only if the invoice was registered and delivered via the electronic invoice system. Debtees would be able to verify or refuse the invoice after checking the registered electronic invoices. The following day from the day of registration of electronic invoices in a system of electronic invoices for public sector entities shall start to run deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities. Today’s agenda also includes the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the central register of compulsory social security. The basic law on amendments and additions to the above is the creation of a legal basis for the future reporting of a single information system of education within the framework of a single insurance, insurance and obligor records, contributions, income tax information. The bill also redefines the deadline for taking over the business of keeping a register of employees, elected, appointed, appointed and engaged persons in public funds users by the central register of compulsory social security from 1 January 2021. The deadline for updating the data in a single insurance, insurance and liability database, contributions, relating to interest in the classification of professions, type and level of classification required for employment in certain jobs, i.e. work at the workplace, as well as data relating to the type and level of qualification, i.e. the education that the person has. Next on the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. The reasons for the adoption of this law are to achieve greater production capacity engagement in domestic factories dealing with the serial installation of all types of tractors, thereby increasing domestic labour engagement, with increased competitiveness of finished products, i.e. the tractor on domestic and foreign markets, the establishment of the obligation to apply and publish the classification decisions confirmed by the SCO, i.e. the World Customs Organisation and the decision on the classification of the European Commission, enables all provisions of key importance for the classification of customs tariffs to be in the parent law governing that area, i.e. in the Customs Tariff Act. Today is before you and the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness. The main amendments to the law concern compliance with EU rules, i.e. Directives 2015/849 and 2018/843 governing the area of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and acceptance of Recommendation 28 Manivals, i.e. The bodies of the Council of Europe dealing with the assessment of the consistency of national systems to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism by Member States of the Council of Europe with international standards. And the objectives of the amending and supplementing law on gambling are: creating a legal framework for adequate control and preventive action in order to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing in the field of gambling, preventing persons associated with crime from being owned or managed by legal persons who play games of chance. In fact, an improved control system is being introduced, i.e. the delivery of evidence to monitor and know the editors, in order to collect data and information on the ownership structure of the editors, the management structure of the editors and the financial indicators of the founders of the editors. It also places an additional focus on banning links with crime-related persons who are convicted of certain criminal offences and serious violations of the rules governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Next on the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law. The main reasons for the adoption of the law are: creating conditions for improving the quality of services provided, improving the business conditions of operators by reducing administrative burden through optimisation and digitisation of the procedure carried out by the Management of tobacco under the E-paper programme, harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as more precise defining the obligations of operators. The objectives of the amendments and addition of the tobacco law are: improving the business environment, predictability of the business environment, increasing efficiency in the process of issuing and renewing licences, uniform treatment and transparency in the provision of public services. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. The Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners as a law of particular importance for the improvement of the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the alignment of domestic legislation with all international standards in this area was necessary to amend and supplement the competent authorities and organisations with regard to the control of the recording of data, the truthfulness and accuracy of such data, as well as to give the authority to apply for an infringement procedure, and bearing in mind that, in the ordinary reporting process, the Manival Committee will require that the Republic of Serbia provide data on the effectiveness of applying sanctions prescribed by this law. In this set of draft laws, which are on the agenda of the National Assembly, there is also a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements. It's about supplements that are minimal, but also very important for the public procurement process. The basic reason for these additions is the need for mutual harmonisation between the two laws. In view of the need to comply with the solutions set out in the Public Procurement Act, which provides for a new safeguard measure, it is necessary to intervene in the Law on Infringements and in such a way that this new safeguard measure will be systematically prescribed in that law. It is a new safeguard measure for the ban on participation in public procurement procedures, and it is also necessary to prescribe its content, i.e. to provide that this ban is contained in a temporary ban on the offender to participate in public procurement procedures. The safeguard measure may take up to two years, counting on the day of lawfulness of the verdict that has been committed. Of course, the entry into force of this law is in line with the beginning of the application of the Public Procurement Act. Before you today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intermediation, Transport and Purchase of Immobility. Based on published assessments in the second report of the Manival Committee, it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to implement recommendations in its legislation, i.e. in the Law on Intermediation, Transport and Immobilisation. The amendments and additions to this law aim to improve the legal framework for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account the comments and recommendations contained in the second report, so that the system has a basis for improving efficiency and efficiency. Amendments and additions to Article 5 shall constitute a direct implementation of the FATF recommendations, more specifically Recommendation 28, which provides for the introduction of a standard of expertise and similarity in the establishment, more specifically the granting of authorisations for the operation of transport intermediaries and the lease of immovable property. In favour of legal certainty, it is the fact that the proposed solutions represent a direct implementation of FATF recommendations, which have not been implemented so far, and which, above all, relate to the disabling of persons from the criminal sphere of society to be in the ownership or management structure, or who are convicted of criminal offences and serious violations of the rules governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The draft law complies with the provisions of the Criminal Code. I hope that in the coming days here in the Serbian Parliament we will have a constructive and reasoned debate. I urge you to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66914	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66915	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, at the 100th session of the Committee on Finance, of the 15 points of the agenda, eight points were amended and amended by the laws that are on the agenda today, and are in charge of the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds. But, most interesting to us, the proposal for a law on public procurement was also the subject of a session outside the Assembly's seat, which was in Zrenjanin and we were just here in detail, in collaboration with the Public Procurement Administration and with the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures, which were in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament and of this committee, we had one debate about all the details, when it comes to this bill, so that at the 100th session of the Committee, and when we talk about other legal solutions, there was indeed one constructive atmosphere. What I can say is that it is very good that we have introduced this principle that as a committee, we are considering laws before it is even found in the congregation debate. We think that this is why we have fewer amendments and fewer misunderstandings, in that sense simply some of the things that have been given as new solutions, that we understand them better. What is more important to say, in addition to the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Public Debt and, in general, the Customs Tariffs Act and the part relating to protection against terrorism, are mainly the application of international directives, and that is, in fact, something that is our obligation, to raise the level of co-operation with other countries somewhere and to implement those international, not only European directives, but also those of the world, which are directly applied. I think this bill puts us somewhere in our second, third step, really supporting the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget for next, 2020. And what's important is that on the Finance Committee we really unanimously adopted these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66916	Thank you, Professor Tomic. We are now moving on to representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups. The word is from a colleague, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66917	Thank you. We have several laws on the agenda of today's Assembly, which would strengthen the country's macroeconomic stability by adopting it. A unique Serbia believes that in the past few years much has been done to improve the economic system and just days ago, the "Standard and Poor" rating agency improved Serbia's credit rating with a tendency to further grow. Thanks to previous estimates and this latest one, Serbia will be even better placed on the global financial market, which will certainly affect faster investment rating, which will allow much easier and cheaper borrowing, i.e. we will use funds at lower interest rates. Good results have been influenced by reforms carried out several years ago, i.e. the last few years under financial consolidation, and therefore we have sustainable macroeconomic stability. Unique Serbia sees this as a good message for international investors, that the risk of investment in our country is reduced, i.e. that it is smaller than the previous years and the Unique Serbia as a socially responsible party will always support the law and measures that will improve not only the better quality and better life of our citizens, but also the overall picture of Serbia in the world. Today, we have the opportunity to consider several such laws in this high house. The law on public procurement has been amended twice since 2013 and has regulated the area of public procurement. The Republic of Serbia agreed domestic regulations with directives and other EU acts and their full implementation in practice between 2014 and 2018. This means a lot, not only because of the harmonisation of EU assets, but also because of transparency, greater competition, but also the equal position of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed changes should simplify the procurement process, as well as reduce administrative burdens, increase competitiveness and prevent corrupt behaviour. One of the major newspapers is the electronic submission of rights requirements, as well as that all procurement procedures are carried out by electronic means, thus increasing transparency and reducing the duration of the procurement process. Electronic public procurement will be tolerated via the Public procurement portal and I think it makes a lot of progress in the public procurement process itself, reducing possible corruption and bureaucracy, and thus we will have a wider and clearer picture of public procurement. The main objective of the public procurement development programme for the period 2019 to 2023 is to further develop a modern and efficient public procurement system, and this will be done through the achievement of four specific objectives. The objectives are to reduce the risk of irregularity, then to promote the ecological and social aspect by introducing a new type of public procurement process, i.e. innovation partnerships, strengthening competition in the public procurement market, which will be done through simplification of procedures, reducing the costs of preparing public procurement, thus increasing the interest of business operators, thereby increasing the number of offers in public procurement procedures, i.e. increasing competition among bidders and increasing the efficiency and economics of public procurement, which is achieved by introducing mandatory electronic communications. Public procurement represents a very important and important component in every modern state and when the public procurement system is well done, it allows the state to obtain good, service and work of the necessary quality under the most favourable conditions. The adoption of the proposed law has enabled domestic economic operators to have fair and equal operating conditions for participation in public procurement, and we will also complete Serbia's picture as a stable country, which will attract even more foreign investors. The company law regulates the position of companies, creating a more favourable business environment for their business. The proposed changes introduce a new model of remuneration for employees. The company law that has changed several times since 2011, and last last year, as I said, regulates the legal position of companies, resulting in the development of the economy in Serbia. Certainly, Serbia's economic growth has had a major impact on many reforms that have been implemented in recent years, as well as improving business conditions and reducing the administrative burden on the economy, seen in digital transformation. A few months ago, an e-paper project was set up, aimed at reducing administrative costs from 15 per cent to 20 per cent by 2021. The project is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises that generate as much as 35% of GDP in Serbia. Serbia is going in a good direction, as it is increasingly ranked on the World Bank's "During Business List" for small and medium-sized enterprises. The fiscal consolidation measures, as I said, which have not been so popular and easy, today we have the possibility that, without destroying our country's economic stability, we are increasing wages and pensions. To go back to the Business Society Act. Given the high growth of information technology in Serbia, its growing share in the gross social product, it is necessary to adopt measures that encourage the development of this industry, but also other business activities and the information industry, very often hire mentors and consultants who work for symbolic compensation, or even to promise that they will get part of the share when the company achieves profits, and the proposed change provides incentives for them, i.e. for participation in the capital of society. This incentivises employees and their greater stock and productivity, which certainly affects the increase in the value of the capital of the company itself. The proposed amendments to the Public Debt Act should allow for greater availability of paper than the value of foreign investors and better control of the borrowing of local self-government units. Public debt participation in Serbia's GDP for the last four years has been reduced almost 20% and Serbia is now in debt to finance infrastructure projects, not to pay salaries and pensions, which was the situation several years ago. Speaking of funding infrastructure projects and as an MP in front of the Unity of Serbia coming from the Raška area, I would like to commend yesterday's start of work on the Moravia Corridor. The Moravia Corridor will mean a lot not only for the Raski District, but also for Rasinski and Moravia County, which will directly affect even regional development, makes it possible to connect with Belgrade and the south of Serbia, our agricultural producers will easily place their products and certainly speed up the tourism development of that part of Serbia. The infrastructure picture of that part of Serbia will be completed, which will be more tempting, not only for foreign ones, but also for domestic investors. About 500,000 people live in this part of Serbia, and statements by individuals that the Moravia Corridor is unnecessary and too expensive should be explained to those citizens who are looking forward to the project. Otherwise, more than $1.6 billion of bonds issued in 2011 and 2013. What should be noted is that public debt, based on guarantees issued, amounted to around 1.5 billion euros in November 2019, about 46% less than in 2013 when it stood at 2.8 billion euros. I would like to commend the Ministry of Finance, as I also see representatives from the said ministry, because in November, in the international capital market, Serbia sold 550m euros in 1.2% in bonds. A better price achieved says investor confidence as a result of economic reforms has been increased and the risk of investment in Serbia has been reduced. We managed to show up twice in this year on the international economic market and confirm the lowest interest rates on state securities of value. The proposed amendments to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is on the agenda today, refer to the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legal assets and in this area Serbia has made significant progress. Serbia has worked hard in this area over the past few years, according to the Council of Europe's report, which states that unlike the 2016 Report, when the 10 recommendations, which Manival sent to Serbia, nine were partially met, the last February 2019 report said there was no recommendation that was not met. I think that Serbia and the finance ministry have made great efforts to advance the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and it is very important to point out that Serbia has been removed from the so-called ". lists of international bodies to prevent money laundering. This is very important, both for business and future investors, and for Serbia's further path to Europe, as well as for co-operation with other international organisations. When we talk about the biggest risk of money laundering, it comes from the crime of tax evasion and in the period from 2013 to 2018, Serbia's budget is damaged by as much as 420m euros. It is necessary to highlight the role of the NBS in preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. This is reflected in co-operation with domestic and foreign institutions in the field of supervisory and covers various aspects, especially technical activities. One of the major co-operations is between the NBS and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which is reflected in the ability to exchange information, which significantly facilitates the control process itself. That Serbia is sincerely committed to fighting money laundering and preventing terrorist financing says the establishment of a co-ordination body headed by the finance minister. We are expected at the end of the year or early next year to adopt a national strategy from this area. I think we're all aware of the danger of terrorism in the world and that this is a global problem and that it directly affects people's lives. Serbia is constantly working to strengthen efforts to fight terrorism and it is legally prohibited for our citizens to participate in armed conflicts in other countries. For the Single Serbia, the security of our citizens comes first and we will always support the efforts made to make Serbia a country of stability and economic progress. In the day to vote, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposed laws that are on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66918	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has been made by the MP, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Here's a colleague of Radenkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66919	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Ministers with Associates, today's bill of law set out in this point 1 represents somewhat, to say, a diversified set of promotions that should allow the goals of reform economic policy to be achieved and that the systemic and long-term problems that exist in some of the most important segments of our society are solved. The solutions to these legal proposals are on the verge of best practices to address some of the challenges that have arisen in implementing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66920	Excuse me, re-apply. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66921	I don't know how long I've been on the air, but no problem. Here, I can repeat this part, at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66922	It's the best way to do it. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66923	The solutions set out in these laws are on the trail of best practices to respond to some of the challenges that have arisen in implementing existing laws and are a relief for the economy and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as they will reduce space for some of the really bad practices. I will pay the utmost attention in this package to the amendments and additions of the Public Procurement Act, given that my colleagues, which we have reported in front of the parliamentary group, will later explain a little more in detail the remaining part of the bill that is united in this point 1. As I said before, we have today's proposal for a law on public procurement. He's a very important one, and I can tell the system law. This law regulates the rules of public procurement procedures carried out by all state authorities in order to obtain good, service or work. Therefore, almost all investments in the contracting authorities, current businesses, the implementation of the basics of the activity require public procurement procedures to be carried out and only if they successfully carry out public procurement procedures can they succeed and function. On the other hand, as it comes to the money of all taxpayers, which is thus spent, the provisions of this law refer to its implementation, meaning it concerns all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We all know how important public procurement reforms are in this parliamentary majority policy and how much energy is devoted to improving this complex process. We all know how advanced this process can be, because we have all witnessed many times that this area is full of challenges, because each public procurement is a small test of credibility, promises of state zero tolerance to corruption, and morals of each public function bearer. We all love it when our ideas on how to make Serbia a better place to live become ideas that are realized in practice. The announced changes are a perfectly logical step in developing a better public procurement system. They are, I must say, tools for better planning, for better efficiency, for transparency and solve many problems, especially, because they give us the opportunity to put an end to public procurement that are unthinkable, because it is the desire of one who calls them that way and who has no desire to enforce the spirit of the law, rather than to break the law without breaking it formally. The Socialist Party of Serbia, and I too, is very glad that we will have a more advanced version of the law. We know that our partners have great merits for improving the public procurement system, but we will also point out this time that our amendment proposals are almost regularly becoming part of the law, from the first law to this day on which we have submitted a good part of the amendment which, I think, can be considered to be accepted and I just have to say that they are good, and only apriors if someone wants to reject them, but they need to be seen. It is logical that the amendments to the law are extremely important and it is at least clear to everyone and even to review all amendments of all fellow Members, equally positions and oppositions, I think there are a lot of quality amendments that we will discuss when the debate is in particular. I will take the opportunity to point out briefly in this part of the debate something that I think is important when it comes to amendments, especially when it comes to the negotiation process without publishing a public call that can only be carried out when a particular economic operator can make the purchase and the objective of the procurement is to create and purchase a single or artistic piece, etc. and the contracting authorities under this Bill are no longer obliged to seek an opinion on the basis of the application of this procedure prior to the initiation of the procedure, and this has been done by the Public Procurement Administration so far. I logically ask this question – how much is our system ready for such a thing, or who will and how will control the orderrs, did they really have the basis for carrying out this procedure that excludes complete competition, comes down to one bidder? For these reasons, we have also submitted an amendment stating all the reasons, so we will talk about it when we discuss it in detail. What is interesting by reviewing the other amendments of my colleagues, and I expected from one colleague, where, fellow Arsic, we did not see him here, in previous times when we were making changes and supplementing, we fought a serious fight on how to bring these things down to a minimum and since in the meantime we got, as I see from the amendment, an excellent idea that a national public administration academy is being formed, and we think, too, that face education is being carried out exclusively when it comes to public procurement that officials do so within the National Public Administration Academy. I don't think we should leave the market anymore, because many, and that's what my colleague Arsic knows, and that we're back to having a serious fight, to bring it down to a minimum, to direct it to state resources and to state authorities to be the bearers of these activities. I think this is a great amendment, but again, we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular. What I would like to mention in particular is that when after a certain time we can talk about some things after the law is applied, but what is important is that we take care of all sublaws, look at the problems so far, take into account what we will hear through the debate, and, of course, these amendments, all with the aim of improving the public procurement system in Serbia. What I would say next, when you want to deprive the system of the corruption gate from time to time open a space for strange behaviour, strange lines of business, the public procurement system has so far had procedures that are very clearly directed towards preventing negative surprises and irrational spending of funds. As such, there are many built-in mechanisms protecting public funds, the property of citizens of Serbia, and a component of this is mechanisms that allow bidders to defend their citizens' interests if irregularities are observed. It is important that this proposal continues to strengthen the capacity of state institutions to ensure that public procurement resembles those in developed countries. Only the development of control bodies can create soils for the realization of basic wisdom, the countries we want to look up to. We MPs have an opportunity each year to get acquainted with the report of the independent body of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which is a kind of control initiated by the participants themselves in the process and which is as such well imagined. The report shows that the Republic Commission is adopting about half the applications submitted, which means that bidders often regret it with the right. I would add that from that point of view it is good that this proposal strengthens the integrity and dignity of the authorities that decide annually on the value of disputes nearly a billion euros. I also commend the provision that the Republic Commission does not conduct a misdemeanour procedure. And then I was trying to explain to the promoter that it was too high and that it was a burden great for the Republic Commission, but I didn't have success at the time, and I'm glad it's being arranged today by this legal proposal. The question is, I have a lot of questions about the integrity of other state bodies such as budgetary inspection. She, for example. It also needs to carry out a kind of control. I'd move on, it's not a fresh way to win bad behavior, it's a certainty that when the system sees harmful behavior reacts so that the one who does the damage is infalliblely effective and certainly punishable, so that it doesn't almost ever come to mind, that it does what it's doing. So a credible threat is the basic basis, not the repression, and certainty is the basis of credibility. I'd like to say, before some of my own ends, to say the same thing, to give a number of commendations to all of these, because I've listed a lot of things that are the papers that the law makes, but I wouldn't be able to address both my colleagues and my colleagues and the public in a very dry manner. What I would like to single out, I would like to commend the introduction of digitisation, i.e. electronic submission of offers through the public procurement portal, which is progress in terms of digitisation and efficiency of procedures. What is also asked as a question – will the July 1st office be able to create all the preconditions for the uninterrupted implementation of the procedure since it is a newspaper that we haven't had so far? Also, the important news is that more precise provisions are defined when there is a conflict of interest. The bottom line is that when someone is really ahead of others, there is a conflict of interest, which is good, and I hope that they will remove many of the dilemmas that have existed so far and that exist under the applicable law. Given that I still have a lot of time, I'd like to refer a little bit to the proposal in Articles 179 and 180 that provides for monitoring tasks for the Public Procurement Office in order to detect, prevent and eliminate irregularities. It is predicted that these workers do not stop the procurement process, as well as that the office is working closer on how to conduct monitoring. Here I have to point out, ask a question and point out and simply underline whether all aspects of this proposal and all the problems that can arise have been considered? Imagine some office advisor who comes to control some big investment tender in the area of infrastructure or energy, so the tighter tenders are at stake. Imagine an orderly who is told in the middle of a procedure that he has not done something in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, how will a responsible person behave? To stop the proceedings or to continue. Which legitimacy has one person or maybe more, however prescribed, who will and how to control it. In some countries, the courts decide, and what if an bidder submits a request with objections from the office, the Republic Commission rejects such a request? I'm afraid there is a need to think carefully about the purpose of these provisions, as well as the consequences they may have. The question is, is there a conflict of jurisdiction here, which is a problem for every law, including this one. I may leave something behind after the debate, so we can make some summary, but at the very end, I have to say ladies and gentlemen, but also friends and friends, colleagues and colleagues, the time we're witnessing is complicated and challenging. It's not easy to be black or white today. Our desire is for reforms to be a matter that we will have a consensus on, not a matter that is day-to-day politicizing. Although space for the diversity of policies that can be implemented realistically is so reduced that only the narcissism of small differences is the only obstacle to consensus. The worst thing that can happen to us is that we stumble again on the same rock. This set of laws that will be passed is a good guarantee that it will not happen. There is no perspective for us if the solutions will be dominantly colored by the color of one majority, then constantly painted. The system is what distinguishes successful countries and successful governments from those who are not. There's a system approach here, and it's only for those who make it happen, that the spirit of the law becomes practical. I must say that the SPS as a socially and socially responsible party considers this proposal to be a law on public procurement, as well as this set of first unifying points has the potential to improve the system, above all in terms of creating a more efficient system that will allow for the achievement of the basic objective. As for public procurement, for example, to get a so-called orderer. value for money. In doing so, our parliamentary group gives clear support to laws that bring Serbia closer to standards, which make Serbia a well-defined society in which the rights and obligations of all are clearly defined and where common sense and efficiency are the basic principles on which both the economy and the public sector are based. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66924	Thank you, colleague Radenkovic. The word is Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66925	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, we have today a set of extremely important laws and I will first say more about the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, because I believe it is extremely important, especially that the Public Procurement Act establishes a legislative framework in the area of public procurement in the Republic of Serbia. It is a system that enables respect for the basic principles of freedom of movement of goods and freedom to provide services derived from them. Namely, the public procurement strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2014-2018 as one of the strategic objectives of public procurement reform in the Republic of Serbia, the full harmonisation of domestic rules with international standards and their full implementation in practice is listed. This implies that public procurement procedures which represent very professional and complex procedures are legal and in line with the principles of public procurement, i.e. transparent, efficient, and that they allow as much competition as possible in the public procurement process. to enable the same position as all interested parties, whether it is large enterprises or small and medium-sized enterprises. The application of the new Public Procurement Act will result in a significant reduction and simplification of public procurement procedures, a reduction of administrative burden both by the contracting authorities and by the tenderers, and in particular by reducing participation costs in public procurement procedures, small and medium-sized enterprises which may not have adequate administrative capacity for adequate participation and implementation of this procedure. Simplification of public procurement procedures and cost reduction are expected to result in an increase in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the public procurement market. This will certainly contribute to a higher level of competition, i.e. increasing the average number of offers in public procurement procedures with a positive impact of more efficient and rational public spending. The proposal for a public procurement law lays down a rule that all communication and data exchanges in the public procurement process according to the prescribed dynamics are carried out on the portal i.e. electronic. As far as electronic procurement is concerned, it should be noted that certain solutions already implemented in the Republic of Serbia, which are mandatory to introduce new directives. For example, the electronic publication of the ad was already in the previous period, also the electronic availability of competition documentation and the like. The paper adopted by the Public Procurement Act is also an electronic submission of offers and applications for electronic catalogues drawn up by a candidate or bidder. The existing practice also points to the need for certain changes in the legal protection system in order to ensure greater protection of the rights of economic operators. First of all, in terms of effectively removed illegality in the course of public procurement procedures, but also in terms of preventive action, as well as adequate sanctioning of different forms, unlawful treatment whose existence is established in the appropriate procedure. The provisions have been formulated since the establishment of a system of protection of rights in the Republic of Serbia and existing procedures, and respecting the provisions of the current EU directives in the field of public procurement. The increased transparency and flexibility of the procurement process, the reduction of the administrative burden by using electronic means are the basic objectives of amending and supplementing this law and are considered to significantly regulate the procedures for the conclusion of public procurement contracts and framework agreements for the purchase of goods, works, services and legal protection in relation to these and procedures, as well as the way and forms of the organisation of the procurement commission. The amendments and additions to the laws on companies also aim to foster further growth and the development of economic activity. In developed markets and economies such as the US economy and EU countries, it is a practice to stimulate employees in a business society to do their jobs better by giving them the opportunity to become members of that company. In particular, this refers to a specific type of stimulation of giving options to acquire participation in the capital of a company at an advantageous price. In this way, employees are stimulated to do their jobs better, thereby increasing the value of the company’s capital. Business companies also hire different consultants, associates, outside associates who are not always employees of society. Very often these consultants work for free or at some symbolic prices, and they do not have the opportunity to get a share in the company. In addition, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the potential founders of a limited-responsibility society, often establish companies abroad so that they can use different opportunities to stimulate employees. In view of the fact that companies have the opportunity to stimulate employees, investors and consultants and the like, at the advantage of the price, to acquire company actions by giving options to actions, as well as the fact that companies with limited liability are the most represented in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, the draft of this law allows companies with limited responsibility to stimulate their employees, investors, consultants, in such a way that they will issue a financial instrument, the right to acquire the share that gives the holders of this financial instrument the right to gain a share in a company of a specific day of privileged price. Also, the draft law suggested that employees of a limited liability society and a stock company participate in the distribution of profits, as well as that the percentage of their own actions that a company can distribute to employees and members of the administration be increased from 3% to 5%. Also, today there is also a law on the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, and the current law prescribes a obligation for creditors to register issued invoices in the central register of invoices and to pay the same debtors only if the invoice is properly registered. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law introduce the possibility, but only after technical and technological conditions are obtained to start from 1 July 2021, the obligation of the trustee to make invoices and other payment requirements, the trustee delivers to the debtor in electronic form through the electronic invoice system, which will establish and manage the Ministry of Finance. The regulation of the obligation to issue an electronic invoice and another request for payment in electronic form is a further step that the government is taking in order to realise the digitalisation process in the Republic of Serbia and to monitor European and global business trends, which are initiated by the adoption of rules governing electronic business. The implementation of the abovementioned e-business measures reduces the administrative burden of business, contributes to the transparency of the work of both the state and the economy, and reduces the opportunities for corruption and unregistered transactions, which is also important for curbing the grey economy. The benefits of introducing an electronic invoice also include improving the control of bookkeeping in accounting systems, as the possibility of human error is reduced to a minimum in this way. Shortening the time needed to process invoices, simplifying, archiving, as the existence of an automatic report in the delivery of electronic invoices. This last, the existence of an automatic report on the delivery of an electronic invoice is particularly significant, as it prevents the possibility of not paying the invoice by saying that it has not been received, which is now very often used as an excuse and, of course, the rule of a certain problem in the business and planning of certain financial charges and transactions in each company. On the other hand, there is great potential for cost savings. Given that it allows legal persons to reduce the working time of employees, dedicated to accounting issues, instead of hand-booking each document, the accountant in this case is focused on controlling the technology to ensure the accuracy of automatic booking. In addition to this, I would like to point out once again that the new amendments to this law will particularly contribute to the transparency of labour, both states and businesses and reduce the possibility of corruption and unregistered transactions, which is also important for the repression of the grey economy, and that therefore MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this bill. I would also like to emphasise certain amendments to the Law on Games on Happiness, where, as a special objective, certain legal conditions for the prevention and prevention of persons from the criminal part of society, to be owners or to manage legal persons who conduct gambling. Also, the specific objective of amending and supplementing the law is to provide transparency of data on the real owners of legal entities and governance structures, and this is the draft law, through Articles 39 and 41, very precisely defined, as well as the change in the structure of capital, the process of issuing a licence. But also, this law sets out certain bans on putting up games of happiness, and I would particularly like to emphasise that, and that is to say, it is a ban on allowing the payment of roles through banks in the Republic of Serbia to participate in games of happiness held abroad, collected advertising and advertising of gambling without authorisation and consent to perform, as well as advertising of gambling directors without notice of the ban on the participation of minors. Here we come to a big problem in society, which is the popularity of games of happiness in children and the growing participation of minors in some form of gambling. So far it has been in the position of Article 4 55. The law said that only adults are allowed in, but I have to talk about statistics that are very devastating. Every third elementary and secondary school student in Serbia regularly plays the bookshop, and nearly 5% of children in our country are pathological gamblers. This shows a survey by the Center for Rehabilitation of Gambling "Life is not a game", according to which the worst situation in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis is. In them bookies nothing literally at every step, especially near schools. In addition to betting, students also experience happiness at sports tickets, roulette, online gambling, and even poker. The survey included 2,357 primary and secondary school students, of whom as many as 997 gambled at least once. How critical the situation best shows that for the first time each fourth student experienced happiness at the stake between 10 and 14 years. There's a lot more gambling in big cities because there's a lot of bookies and automatic clubs. According to experts, although the law on gambling has banned minors from entering bookies and gambling, it is not in practice implemented. Children under the age of 18 visit these places without problems, and more factors are responsible. First of all, there are culturally expected men to follow sports and play bookies. It's something that unfortunately follows the boy's growing up in Serbia. Also, experts say the biggest problem is that parents do not recognize betting as a form of addiction and a potential danger to the child. The paradox is that parents are even more afraid of internet addiction than gambling. The problem is that many moms and dads don't consider gambling, but they only put roulette and poker into it, which is wrong. Online bookies are much more dangerous, higher than locals, because there is no legal regulation that would solve this problem. This is a really big problem for us as a society, because the question of underage gambling addicts is not only medical, but also legal. From a legal point of view, we have a law on gambling that prohibits gambling under 18 years of age, which suggests that something is not working properly in the field of law enforcement. The regulations and functioning of competent inspections are only one of the measures that can be used as a prevention in this area. They should be accompanied by educational programs designed for children, and above all by parents, about the harmful participation of children in gambling. Schools and parents and all institutions dealing with prevention, as well as the treatment of disease addiction must be included here. The betting pools as a kind of gambling are an inexorable part of the colorite of all places in our country, and are rarely located near school facilities, and are visible and easily accessible to students. The law on gambling in the Republic of Serbia is very clear in the sense that people under 18 are forbidden to participate in gambling, and it is forbidden to enter the areas where such games are organised. The law also regulates that age data should be checked through personal documents. However, there are no clear indicators available to the public whether inspection checks are carried out, how many controls are carried out annually, what are the effects of inspection surveillance and the like. They do not exist, according to further research results, whether the work of inspections is really preventive, or whether it affects a reduction in the number of younger than 18 years involved in gambling. The main objective of the amendment and addition of the law on gambling, which we are talking about today, is to improve the legislative framework for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in the field of gambling and the harmonisation of laws with international standards in this area. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia believe that the bill is good and of course we will support it, but what I personally think is that we need to find solutions and ways as a society to influence the devastating statistics that I've just spoken about and find ways to protect children from this serious phenomenon that is becoming very popular and which, unfortunately, many children have kneeled, because we need this 4.8% figure that pathological gamblers always have in mind and find ways to fight this. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support a set of laws on the agenda of today's session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66926	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just yesterday we were able to see the negation of all of this that we're talking about today, i.e. First of all, public procurement. So yesterday we got a pompous announcement, of course, we knew it a long time ago, that it began with the construction of the Preljina-Poyate highway, the so-called Moravia Corridor. We Serbian radicals warned a year ago about what was coming. So, a Chinese company appeared four years ago to talk about the indicative price for a project to build the Moravian Corridor, which was about 500m euros, that was their first estimate. After that, past every procedure, we saw a year before the establishment of public interest signing a protocol to build a future corridor with the American company Bechtel. We were talking about kidnapping here, so the MPs replied that nowhere in the law reads "Bechtel", as if it were going to write in a law that the company would build a highway, but we saw at that time the US ambassador to the Serbian government along with Mrs. Mihajlovic, the competent minister, sign the Protocol of Co-operation with "Bechtel" for the construction of the Moravian Corridor. Where is the public procurement, i.e. Where's the tender to see which company can show up? Maybe there were more favourable companies. You know, we have good experience with Chinese companies that did road infrastructure in Serbia. But no, it had to pass Bechtel, although for now 245m euros is at least more expensive than the price of a Chinese company for the same time. We talked about it long before it came here on the agenda. You were talking about how we made it up, and in the end it was all confirmed. The Serbian government issued a public call for an offer to build a Moravia Corridor that represented the US company's actual ID card Bechtel. So, the call was drawn so that only Bechtel could pass, the whole specification, all the characteristics exactly as the US company does. What was the point? The goal was, for the Americans to like us, to like us, to pay them a racket, and the price of 250m euros higher than other companies, is nothing more than a racket, so perhaps we should discuss where that money is going, who is the mediator in Serbia to pay for that money? So we think if we bribe them in such a way that we will have their support in some perhaps foreign policy matters. Of course it's naive, that it's infancy and that it's another one in a series of our missed investments. The responsible government would look at the experiences of countries in the region, where Bechtel still worked, for example in Albania, also broke out an affair for the highway built by Bechtel, because it was prepaid because they came to squeeze out everyone else under the auspices of the US Embassy. In Croatia, when building the Split-Karlovac highway, the minister of infrastructure had to resign, when it was discovered how much the US company Bechtel was subscription to build the highway. If we are talking about the rule of law and public procurement that should be the basis for sound competition, and for all the overall economic development, it takes healthy competition to avoid any corrupting activities, until the end of the negative selection, as we did, here we saw yesterday. Yesterday we had a chance to see it, we engaged in the construction of the Moravia Corridor with the American company Bechtel-Enka, which we received through a direct contract. So, contrary to what we have had the opportunity to hear from Minister Djordjevic, from various MPs from the ruling coalition, how it can be good and to encourage competition, the economic environment in Serbia, if we deal directly with direct contracts. And this company is just doing that, just looking for governments that are under obvious influence and pressure, not to say control of American embassies, who then have to do what they're told. Serbia is not lonely in this regard, there are many Eastern European countries, here you see Croatia, Ukraine for example. The Bechtel also operated in Latin America, and it proved to be a company serving as a kind of geopolitical instrument for the United States. To all the criticisms that come about this affair, and so much money to spend is an affair, it's said - you're criticising it, you're against the highway. We're not against the highway, Moravski Corridor needs Serbia. The highway is needed by Serbia, but it is not necessary for Serbia to be robbed, to pay for a racket to the US Embassy. No one needs that anyway. We had the opportunity to hear Mrs. Ana Brnabic say yesterday that there is no problem that "Bechtel", which the US company is taking subcontractors and Turkey, while some other company such as the Chinese company when it built the Milos highway largely took Serbian subcontractors, Mrs. Brnabic seriously says that it cannot be done by Serbian companies because they have too much to do, are too busy. Is that normal? Do we endure so much in our delusions, above all, about the economy, when we are talking about Swiss pensions, about the German standard, about how our GDP growth is greater than German even though our 4% growth is 1.6 billion euros, compared to the German 1% of the growth that is 50 billion euros, is not for comparison, but we are enough to boast that we have the biggest growth in Europe. So even now, our companies can't work in Serbia because they're too busy. I'm not so sure they're as profitable as we can hear from the government. What else will follow about this "Bechtel"? All officials, directors, regionals, but others are former CIA members. It's no secret. That's what respected world economists write about in their studies. Look at John Beijing's book "The Confession of the Murderer of the Economy". Look at what Americans do throughout Eastern Europe, and you will see that they are actually looking for profits in these semi-sovereign countries, such as SBB, led by David Petreus, as in Kosovo and Metohija, extra profits and property cuts are derived from Wesley Clark and Madeline Albright, so is Bechtel only one in a series of companies that is affected by the US Embassy here to get jobs and take a racket. We comfort ourselves here that it's actually a digital highway, so it's worth every penny. Nebulose. Is it possible in the 21st century that only in the West, that only Americans know how to build highways? Now the Chinese and the Azerbaijani and the Indians and many others know it. They won't bring us anything we don't already have or we don't already know. Look at these pressures from American companies, prominent American politicians, that is, more influential care of prominent ones, in the case of Ukraine. There he is head of the entire economy of Joe Biden, assisted by our former finance minister, that is, the advanced candidate for Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic. That's what we do, and then we talk here about control through public procurement. Can anyone in Serbia believe that we have such competition, that everyone here is equal. It's not. All these laws that are passed are passed because of pressure from the EU, and the ministers in Serbia are comforted that if they pass a law containing a clause or in an explanation that says that it is in line with the recommendations in that and that chapter, then we will draw closer to the EU. That's one lie. It's a fantasy. There is no such thing, especially where some members say it will only start to apply once Serbia becomes an EU member. What are we talking about? What Serbia in the EU? This is no longer believed by anyone, especially because only some special cases may not be clear, direct messages coming from the EU, where they no longer want enlargements, where they want a European periphery, so that they have a chance somewhere to get what they need at low prices, that they can have a priority over prey, which would represent our resources, and primarily what they need, they need cheap labour. That's what they see in us and we'll be the European periphery forever. The EU's periphery. We and some other countries like Albania and northern Macedonia, we will represent "little Schengen", the EU lobby, but it doesn't matter because in this small union of ours, "Little Schengen", at least we will be the strongest there, it may satisfy our vanity. This is the current situation between the EU and Serbia, neither this law nor any other one will help us on that path. All that comes from the EU is only one question, and this is a question of full recognition of the independence of the Republic of Kosovo by Serbia, the exchange of embassies and the provision of that. Ambassador and facilitating the membership of the Republic of Kosovo to the UN. We won't be absolutely needed for anything anymore when we make it happen. We can talk fairy tales about our average salaries, foreign investments coming from the EU, pensions, German standards and everything else, that's one big error. If a salary goes up somewhere, it can't be measured with price increases, because the only thing cheaper in Serbia every year is the labour price, and that's what we serve them in this relationship, it's the essence of our relationship, but it's 19 years old. Whatever these European parliamentarians say, the former, present and their exhibits in Belgrade, and NGOs that lecture you, and whatever praise you, whatever is recommended on their part, will not bring us within a millimeter of this closer to the EU, especially as the issue of Kosovo is open, and that is the essence, there is no escape, there is no detour. It doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean an open chapter. It doesn't mean a closed chapter. As far as our economic successes are concerned, the first one, Dusan Vujovic, otherwise a World Bank man, did not hide fully when he was in Serbia, the finance minister, after his term as finance minister, said that with the current economic model of Serbia, it would take Serbia 250 years for the most developed European countries to arrive in the meantime, unless these European countries are absolutely developing. If there's a status quo, what's that supposed to tell us? Is there anything clearer than that? The man who was your colleague, who was sitting in that government, says today it takes 250 years for Serbia with this model, these subsidies, without a conversational fulfillment of the European directives and the pressures of the American and other embassies. In 250 years, we will be as the most developed members of the EU, and that is if they do not move. The second question - preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. In addition to giving you almost by the European representation in Serbia of these laws or at least guidelines, you transfer some of the powers of the state to private persons who operate in Serbia, therefore, businessmen, stock companies, who came here for profit, such as banks. How can the bank determine the origin of the money? Is that the job of the government authorities, not the banks? Is it possible that banks are so important that they are allowed to do so? Same situation as with public executioners. You're giving private persons one of the jurisdiction that they have after their own control of the execution, we've seen how it looks, how many people from these eight years have been robbed, how many perpetrators live today, how much money they've earned, what they've done with the seized properties, whether they're only meant to make absolute use of those over-indebted debtors and confiscate their assets at all costs, and so the banks will now have little government powers. It's not modernization, it's not a rule of law, it's not raising standards, it's an indication that our decisions are not made in Belgrade, but through certain diplomatic representations they serve our government for adoption, and then ministers and MPs from the ruling majority have only one task, which is to justify these decisions, to find a way to present these solutions as rescue, as the only possible, as genius successes with mandatory, adjective, i.e. The characterization of the best in history, or for the first time in history. And the rhetoric of the ruling majority and the Serbian government is in full collegiation with the real life of no one in the government is interested. The Serbian government is dealing with real problems and it is only then that people in Serbia live, when they block all of Serbia as mailmen, and then we only see that these 500-euro salaries are just one invention, that wages are actually 300 euros. That's what we see, and the state only responds to it when the whole country is blocked for the strike, so is the postman, that's how it happened with the taxi drivers, so one day the pensioners' problem when they block all of Serbia, then you'll also remember that in fact what was taken against the constitutional way, the pensioners have to come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66928	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, we need to make a statement on the motion to put the act on the agenda according to the urgent procedure during the session. Before we move to a decision on putting the act on the agenda of the emergency procedure during the session, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 168(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on any proposal to put on the agenda acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall decide, on the condition that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that it be placed on the agenda of the session of the meeting - Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions – has voted – two, a total – 143. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on with our work. Do we have any logs on the agenda? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'll support all these acts, but I'm interested in a few topics. Public procurement. So in 2012, when historic changes occurred, at that time, during the rule of the former regime, public procurement was secret and military secrets were public. That while they were in power. Not only were military secrets public, not only was the state's military neutral, it was in some way militaryly neutralized. The state and the army were not well armed during the former regime's rule, but rather well-armed, Mr. Arsic. Their goal was for the country, which was decapitated, territorially mutilated, by the famous opinion of the International Court of Justice, Jeremic, whom Thaci is calling upon, their goal was to build an economically powerless state, but in doing so, the international community tolerates what they are doing in Serbia in exchange for military neutrality of the state, to be economically powerless, militaryly powerless, socially unsustainable. Such a country was supported by an international factor, i.e. a part of the international community. At that time, these outsiders achieved that our national and national interests almost did not exist. Because of the alleged international reputation of Boris Tadic and the team's sacrifice of national interests, we didn't need such a reputation. Such a reputation is no reputation. Ladies and gentlemen, what they did as a government is now trying to do as an opposition. While external forces and a certain part of the international community threaten us on the outside, so far those insiders, who robbed us for those 12 years, are helping us. The result is an attack on the military industry, on the dedicated industry. They were not accidentally "Krusik", "First Partizan" and Luciani at the same time attacked. It's not an accident that the Bulgarian team is in on it. He's not a Bulgarian journalist, by any chance. No accident, because the man who bought from Gilas "Direct Media", is an integral part of the team, the Bulgarian team, who was supported by that journalist Gajtanjieva. So, part of the team is also Bulgaria's which allegedly bought "Direct Med" from Dragan Gilas. It's all clear. These days, instead of Krusik, the 80m-euro contract was signed by Bulgarians. Bulgarian and Bulgarian journalists are working for the benefit of their own dedicated industry, in favour of their country, and I am therefore surprised by these yellow unfortunates and similar ones working against their country. While we are being attacked from the outside, inside we are being attacked by those who, together with us, are supposed to defend the state, because one day they may become power and better be power with a developed dedicated industry, with a developed state, with a developed economy, than with a country that is not. As for money laundering, I think the state should also monitor cash flows, say, Bastacea. You all remember his famous bag, or entry at an unauthorized amount. It's not an accident, it's not an isolated case. I'll try to explain some of those transactions to you. You all know the program director of N1 television. It's an adviser to the Albanian mobster, the drug lord of Bakim Ulai. Recently, the press wrote about it, he as a software director of N1 television that is not registered in Serbia, which you cannot sue, which allegedly broadcasts the programme from Luxembourg, which essentially broadcasts it from Belgrade, with the aim of avoiding taxes and taxes in the Republic of Serbia. So, about the suspicious transactions of the gentleman mentioned, who founded the "Key Connection" company along with his relative, where he owns 90%. You've had suspicious transactions just since Baskim Ulai, who the UN is chasing for money laundering and drug trafficking. Yugoslav Cosic received 249,862 euros from the Albanian on behalf of a drug lord from Albania. That transaction is very suspicious and reminds me of money laundering. Furthermore, the same gentleman received a total of 25,974,000 dinars from the US Embassy over three years at the "Key Connection" firm. Also, in the same period, he won a total of $4732 at the Business Bank of Belgrade. During the period with "Adria News", he totalled $6,502. When raising cash, the gentleman mentioned during this period, along with the co-founder, the company "Key Connection", otherwise, he is the programme director of the famous N1 TV, which broadcasts the programme daily, which does not bother me, provided they are registered in the Republic of Serbia, not against current leadership only and ruling parties, but against the state of Serbia, totaled 510,000 euros. I think this is enough reason for the Bureau to deal with the money laundering not because of the broadcast of the program and the way it works, but because of the money that apparently came from the drug dealer, the Albanian drug dealer, the leader of the tropoly mafia. Also, General Simovic caused a military coup on March 27th for £200,000. You certainly know that. The gentleman, or founders of "Key Connection", Mr. Cosic and his relative, raised 335 thousand pounds of British. So far more than General Simovic. A total of 38 million dinars were raised in the same period. Now I ask you under what circumstances, and the Money Laundering Authority has to explain, Yugoslavia Ćosic, the programme director, drug counselor, the leader of Albania's tropoly mafia, totaled a three-year increase of $1,400,000 overcalculated pounds, dinars, euros and $147.433? I think this is enough reason to suspect that he did not get this money for the pretty eyes, for consulting Albanian mobsters who tattoos to put on the body, but he got this to subdue the editorial policy to the national and state interests of Albanians in Albania and in the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, terrorism. I just spoke here in addition to the agenda. I keep my decision here, and I'm sorry that the gentleman mentioned isn't here, about pardoning the official duty of 7:12.2001. He says the decision to pardon the official duty of Albin Zaima Kurti is being released from further execution of the sentence imposed in prison. The signator, president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should not hide that the former government, together with the DSS, has freed both the Mazreka brothers and Flyor Brovin and a total of 2,108 Albanian terrorists and that it was not a fight against terrorism, but that it was a fight for the benefit of terrorism. Many of them ended up in ISIS. Many of them participated in the murder of Serbs, the kidnapping of Serbs, the extraction of organs. We do not have the right to remain silent about this, as we do not have the right to remain silent that some of them were released later by Judge Majic, so to speak. A "gnjilan group" of 11 KLA terrorists who killed 80 Serbs and tortured 250 with the easy taking of a soul, which means torture to death. We have no right to remain silent over this and the shameful judgments and pardons of Albanian terrorists if we want to fight terrorism. Consciously or unconsciously, former authorities of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, etc. worked in favour of terrorist activities, in favour of terrorists and seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice, Mr Arsic, have in a certain way legalized the wild state of "Kosovo and Metohija", which is not a state, but a NATO base. But with NATO bases, they want to perpetuate their country. While the ruling parties, the President of the Republic, the Government, ministers, citizens, are working hard not to recognise the country as wild as "Kosovo and Metohija", are trying to challenge as many withdrawals as possible, so far as a team that has worked as government in favour of terrorists and in favour of their country, today from the position of the opposition is trying to do the same thing and to assist the wild state of "Kosovo" and Kurti. You all remember that Yugoslav Cosic, who I was talking about, who received money from an Albanian mobster, the leader of the tropoly mafia, who immediately ran to interview with Prime Minister Kurti and to present him here as Vuk Jeremic, as some patriot, left-right, etc. Those who freed him are now washing his biography. We are under the obligation that if we want to fight terrorism, we clearly say that the international community, with the help of our unfortunates, has tried from terrorists, safe terrorists, proven terrorists, to try to wash their biography and make so-called. "The leadership of Kosovo", the state of the wild state "Kosovo and Metohija", to make them regular military commanders, etc., and our regular military officers and statesmen make war criminals. It's the other way around. We have a crime-free sentence and a crime-free sentence. We have no right to remain silent about it, regardless of what some are trying to do here, who have pardoned Kurti, who are trying from the opposition point of view to re-exploiting the biography of Kosovo Albanians. That's what they get money for, and they don't choose, they get it from even the drug lord of the Albanian tropoly mafia. Ladies and gentlemen, if it hadn't been for these unfortunate events, if we hadn't found a country like we found, today a different song would have been sung. Montenegro wouldn't separate itself. You all remember that Wolf Jeremic, it's also terrorism for me if you work against your country, who said that "I... mother" and Serbia-Montenegro and vice versa. That state community had its limits, its territory. These are acts against the people and the state, or I don't know exactly how they qualify, that Mr. Martinovic knows. They were working on breaking up the state community. After that, to break Serbia. That's the order, 2006-2008. They sought the opinion of the International Court of Justice, knowing what they would get, wanting to help Albanians, because Americans helped Boris Tadic choose for the second time as president of the Republic of Serbia, and in the battle for terrorism, we must not forget and let their helpers, who are now trying to bring down Serbia's not leadership, but the state of Serbia within. We have no right to remain silent and therefore I am against any further concessions, call part of the Serb opposition, which is working against the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66930	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The right to the replica has a direct reference to the name and last name, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Risticevic, you mentioned Albanian criminals and how the former regime let them out of Serbian prisons, and I cannot, one of the possibly greatest horrors of World War II on this occasion, happened in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, AP Kosovo and Metohija, the only crematorium in which the victims of the Second World War were burned here, was in Klecka. Among others, she was burned, or burned, the body of an eleven - year - old girl. When asked why she was raped first and then killed, the answer was that she was a Serbian. It was the only reason enough for that child to experience such a terrible fate. So much worse, because with such people and their associates, it is saddened that there are like-minded people in Serbia, members of the Serbian people, who don't care what pain the victims had, or the pains that family members, who only care about power, profit, how to make as much money as possible. And with the black devil they will make an alliance, so let Mr. Bastic, Gilas and Jeremic and these people from N1 know who they are and who they cooperate with and who they support and what evil these same people have done not only to the state of Serbia, but to the Serbian people. It is time that every Serbian citizen knows what kind of co-operation the former regime is working with to come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66932	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now he has the word as an authorised representative, Mr Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to a set of economic and anti-corruption laws, I have not heard from the representatives of the opposition or the former regime any serious objection to the laws. I guess they're good. They talked about everything else, just not the laws, so it's obvious that the trend of making better and better laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia continues. You know, when a fellow MP spends 15 minutes persuading the people's MPs, Serbian citizens, that there's Bechtel got some finer job that's costing 300m euros than it would otherwise be, I'm asking a question -- is he worth 300m euros? (Alexander Seselj: How much is on the pile or?) ) It can be hypothetical that in some works the value of 600m euros is increased by 10, 15 or 20m euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66934	Comrade Seselj, let's let my colleague Arsic speak. I see and colleague Sarovic wants to speak, everyone will get a word, not a problem. Go on, fellow Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66935	But to say that something is more expensive for 300m euros and that instead of 500m euros, it will cost 800m euros, which is already a serious problem, to convince anyone serious in this country that it is possible. We can talk about all the offers, but there's another thing called the public works specification. According to this specification of public works, you can see what one offer actually contains, what another offer contains and why one is different from the other. And one more thing, really don't underestimate Chinese businesses, because there are no conditions that can be foreseen in the conclusion of such an agreement that the Chinese are unable to comply with. So that story that only one side was favored is completely failing, and I can see by the reactions from the benches of my colleagues who are opposition MPs that my discussion hurts them something, something bothers them, something they don't like. We now have the Public Procurement Act as a first debate, and I can say that the Law on Public Procurement, which was filed by the SNS in 2012, as a parliamentary group, not as a government, not as a ministry, has endured all the trials it was put on and I can also say that the 2012 Public Procurement Act has started a new trend in public works, collecting offers, selecting bidders, which continues with this new law. It seems to bother me the most. I understand what bothers Bastac, which bothers Gilas, I understand, because if it were the law and the law that is now in force and the one that we need to adopt, let's say, the Ada Bridge wouldn't cost 600m euros plus 300m euros in pre-accession traffic, but it would cost a lot less, about. I can see that's funny, too. They were funny to me, say, how can banks control the prevention of money laundering? I guess these transactions are done in banks? But whoever knows some economic rules will never say that. So when he throws, let him listen, learn something, because he'll need it for the next discussion. To go back to the Public Procurement Act. What prevents corruption is transparency in the public procurement process itself. As my esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic said, during the former regime, while the authorities were doing Tadic, Jeremic, Djilas and this merry Bastic, public procurement was secret contracts and secret jobs. One more thing - it was such a procedure that you could put discriminatory conditions in the advertising of public procurement and labour specification and that you had no protection in the process and would get that public works performer to whom it was intended, or whose retail painting was in the offer. With the new law passed in 2012, I will repeat, proposed by the Serbian Progressive Party, not the government, not the ministry, for one bad practice in the Republic of Serbia with the law on public procurement put an end. In 2015, the law survived amendments and additions only in the part where the law was in line with EU directives. Just as well, if someone wants to say the law wasn't right. He was good, and he basically laid the groundwork for this new law. What should be set aside from this law and what we should seek to remain in every law concerning public procurement procedures, which is the status, position and competence of the Commission for the resolution of procedures in the application of public procurement, or the Commission for the Protection of Rights. I think we are one of the few countries where this commission has absolute independence in work and one of the few countries where such a commission is responsible for its work to no one but the National Assembly, or Parliament, and one of the few committees whose members are elected by the National Assembly, which gives full independence in the work and decision-making process of public procurement. As important as it is, I can only say that the reforms in the area of public procurement that we started, that in 2014 alone, in the Fund of the Republic Health Protection Institute, we achieved savings of 450m euros. It means that the same or higher amount of medical supplies and medications has been obtained, and that it has been paid 450m euros less. I'm just citing it as one of the examples of how important it is for the laws to be good. Another thing that should also be praised and what is even a step ahead when it comes to public procurement, which is that it is now a much clearer position of centralised public procurement and what is more important, it is that more units of local self-government can jointly carry out the public procurement process and that for the first time it is quite clear now by law. L Great Local Self-Government doesn't have that problem. Smaller local self-governments have a problem and to bring together people who will work on the commission and that this selection process will be completed within those deadlines as their citizens expect them to, and simply small municipalities often do not have the capacity to carry out such a single procedure, because the composition of the commission implementing the procurement procedure is specific in itself and requires certain professional qualifications, licences and knowledge in the public procurement process itself. In this way, we made it easier for smaller and less developed municipalities to join themselves and thus carry out a more efficient public procurement process and a more economic procurement process. Local self-government is known, performs an important part, participates and performs an important part for the quality of life of citizens and attracts investors, whether they are domestic or foreign. Speaking of local self-governments, also, in Article 33. The public debt law, which changes, concerns the local self-government unit, that the finance minister gives prior consent to the task of local self-government. So far, it was only formal in nature, in the sense that the ministry was checking the extent of the responsibility of a particular unit of local self-government, the amount of its budget revenues, and based on the debt of income, decided and gave consent or did not give consent to the municipality's duties. I'm sorry that it's only being implemented now when it comes to local self-government units, and I'd like it to be implemented for urban municipalities, such as the Old Town, so Bastac couldn't create such malfeasance. But most importantly, according to the current proposal, it still takes a much deeper analysis of the state of the municipality and what are the effects with this new task that it wants to assign to the municipality. These economic effects are the most important. It means that it is truly seen whether this type of responsibility is necessary, firstly, the municipality, the local self-government unit, the economic effects and the impact of the further performance of the local self-government unit. Speaking of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, we are all aware of how complicated this is, how much international co-operation and the judiciary of several state authorities is, even the applicants of some other public authority. What's important for the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering is that it's not just the state, but also the payers. What's the specificity of money laundering? That the money obtained by illegal actions should be paid into legal cash flows. It's like, say, Bastic tried, though, it's just as an example, to bring several thousand euros more into the country than it's allowed, but it is money laundering. So, with every step that goes in terms of preventing money laundering, certain illegalities and corrupt elements in the country are being prevented. So I don't see what's more funny about it and what's there for a laugh? Has anyone regretted Bastice's arrest with foreign exchanges and this caused great damage to his reputation, which is not very large among the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia? Is it a problem that they won't be able to do more with offshore companies to pay taxpayers' money here without these taxes being charged on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because income has been achieved and that we are going to have co-operation with international organisations dealing with the prevention of money laundering? You know what, everything done in Serbia, if it comes from the side, doesn't mean it's just a mere desire for EU membership. We want the Republic of Serbia to have resolved rights and obligations and citizens and businesses and states, as has been resolved in EU countries. I don't know what's so difficult about that. I guess we all live in a country where the rule of law, the rule of law, is that we are all equal before the law, not some privileged. Since I was really trying to write down what my fellow MPs were saying and really stop convincing Serbian citizens that Serbia is living worse than it was living. It's more like an election campaign for both the opposition and the former regime can't. You cannot convince citizens that there is inflation in Serbia that is high or high if we know that 2% is lower than in 2011 alone. Start dealing with politics, the National Assembly will deal with lawmaking, and the SNS will work to improve the quality of life of all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and even those who will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66936	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now I'm setting a break for an hour and we're back to work at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66937	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66938	I thank the chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support all laws that are under discussion today in the Assembly. We are particularly interested in amending and supplementing the Law on Happiness, given that we have spoken here several times, even submitted one proposal of the law on gambling, as well as taking concrete action on the ground, including a petition of citizens of Novi Pazar, over 10,000, who has been handed over neatly to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance so that in any way this monster, which destroys our society, but also the whole region, has strayed from education institutions, from schools, from kindergartens, from colleges and from religious facilities. Someone mentioned today that in the smaller environments there is indeed a great sigh of such objects that provide gambling services, a bookie especially, a casino and that this mirror is essentially the most representative industrial branch in the environment. Unfortunately, that's true. Sadly, many primary and secondary school students are very often under the challenge of being coerced or challenged in any way and thus destroying their lives. Of course, it is a lot of crime, a lot of discrepancies and irregularities in relation to legal regulations and it is very important that as much as possible to sharpen the measures and ultimately look for a model, such as in some of the most developed countries of the world, that ultimately and completely prohibit the work of such organisations, because in fact this is the only thing that can end up healing our fallen society. The minister himself has stayed in the area several times, and he saw that Novi Pazar and Tutin were really obsessed with these bookshops and casinos, so he could see it a few days ago when he visited, when he visited, and I really want to thank him, to thank the minister and home in Tutin. He gave concrete support to the director of that home who, in a short period of time, was a victim of criminal organizations, an oligarchy who tried to make everything worth it and what was healthy in those environments to destroy, or to send a message that in these parts it was not good to do something quality, to see prosperity, but that this area should be extinct and left to the bookshops, to the casinos, to those monsters that would in any way destroy youth, to destroy families and to bring to the edges of existence all that was worth it. That is why we also advocate to ban the work of such institutions completely, and every step in this regard, such as the amendments and additions of this law, we support and consider that a step forward is not satisfied, although we find it inadmissible that in the legal frameworks, which are less than that, many bookmakers and gambling offices work in the vicinity of educational institutions, and especially near religious facilities, there were churches, there were mosques, and thus a terrible message is sent that this society is surrounded by such monsters, instead of those values that have been traditional for centuries and that have brought up a healthy, normal and prosperous family, a family that has built this society and which only has the power to deal with all that is the destruction offered by the bookshops and casinos. That is why we will continue to advocate that this evil is rooted out on the ground, and of course, as I said, this time we will support it, and we will especially support this legislative proposal, as well as everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66939	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll stick to my theme: agriculture. I would like to say that in the period from 2012 to 2018, 6 years between the list of agricultural holdings and the survey on the structure of agricultural holdings in 2018, 67,000 or 11% of agricultural holdings disappeared. This trend is not only present with family agricultural holdings, but also with legal persons and entrepreneurs, which clearly indicates that there are problems in the operating conditions of those operators in our real sector. Second, the area of agricultural land was reduced by 385 thousand or 583 hectares. If we multiply that by the price of real agricultural land sales, it's very worrying data, 10% agricultural land in six years. Furthermore, normally, part of this is busy for infrastructure facilities and this is the main problem that investors in infrastructure facilities do not account for the value of agricultural land in order for other non-agricultural areas to recultiate and bring to agricultural purposes. When it comes to livestock, all kinds of cattle, except sheep, show a tendency to decrease. It's especially characteristic of livestock, where the least reason for such a thing should be, given that we have all the domestic raw materials of concerted livestock food, both for bearers and broilers, but there's a decrease of about 14% or three and a half million pieces of livestock in six years. Finally, we also have a reduction in the number of owners by 105,688 or 7.5%, as it relates to the demographic devastation of family agricultural holdings in the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to point out, I analysed 2018 on the basis of final accounts and there are far more devastating results than the budget-planned situation. In fact, given the tax revenues that were actually higher than they planned, instead of 988,600,000 dinars were 1.006,879,000 or increased by 1.85%. In addition, however, the agricultural and rural development incentive law does not increase the funds that are minimally prescribed by 5%, even for the total division of 24 agriculture, forestry and water industries. Thus, according to the adopted draft budget for 2018, there was a lack of, or diminished for the purpose of incentives in agriculture and rural development of 5,320,761,000, and according to the revenue achieved in 2018, this reduction or confiscation from farmers was even at the level of over nine and a half billion. Even more tragic is the situation when it comes to subsidies in agriculture. Instead of being a cut of just 15, under the assumption that something more than 15 billion, the reduction is over 18 billion. For the next discussions on this topic, according to the final accounts, I will do an analysis for the whole period, at least since 2012, and on this one, and I will carry out some consultations with the competent state authorities, to check all these allegations, to see what we will and how we will and whether we should provide farmers with a refund of funds. Also, I would take advantage of the opportunity here of a resolutely present minister, to point out that the Republic Fund is a PIO insurance, 185,800,000 dinars were planned. Only 172.225,966.664 dinars or 13.5 billion dinars were realised.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66941	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the markings of John Dire are down, there's a saying - praise the village, but in the city lives. He says the other saying is: It is easier to suffer after the village than in the country. So my colleague is suffering in the city, but even now in retirement days, he could have come to the country. I will not be obliged to leave time for Mr. Miletic, I will only say this, that I am informing you that the World Bank has approved another 50,000 euros, the World Bank, the same one that has credited the development of livestock farming on the Old Mountain, so some with the markings of John Dira have received 62,000 euros and the development of livestock has not been there. The consultants charged, and this time it doesn't happen. The World Bank approved 50,000 euros. It's still for agriculture, another six billion, I believe Mr. Minister knows that, for agriculture, and it's worth adding to those funds that have already been allocated to 40 and a few billion, so we're approaching the 50 billion-dollar incentives, thanks to the government's negotiating, 50 billion which will be a non-refundable part for farmers from the World Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66943	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66944	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, as he has already pointed out and made it clear to the promoter our authorised representative, or authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Dejan Radenkovic, is no doubt that the SPS parliamentary group will support the set of laws we are discussing in the voting day. My focus of discussion at today's debate will be exclusively in relation to the law, i.e. the law on complementarity of the Business Society Act, so I will ask you to pay attention to several extremely well-intentioned suggestions regarding the practical application of this law. It is doubtless that citizens through this law can recognize something that is a qualitative shift in relation to the provisions of the Law on Economic Society so far. What is the fundamental change of this law is the introduction of a new institute, and this institute is called a reserved own share. I ask you in this direction to exchange an opinion and discuss something that is affirmative in any case and that in some future perspective it will contribute to a far better positioning of companies when it comes to the economic situation in the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what this is about. It is about the fact that this law contributes to the far better and more adequate award of those who could not so far have been able to do so as an opportunity, which are both employees and those third parties engaged by companies, such as consultants, such as advisers, even investors, and thus create a more favourable business legal environment when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. What's very good, which I'm going to affirm as something that has never been a legal solution so far, is the way you get your own reserved share and the way you exercise your right based on that reserved stake. What's essentially a reserved own stake? If it were translated into some language understood for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is about the share that comes to society. In a specific case, the accent is on a limited liability company, and that share is obtained without a burden, therefore without compensation and is obtained from the founders, or members of the company. This is something that is well settled in the legal framework. On the basis of this acquisition of that share, employees in society will have the right to be able to sell their share under privileged conditions, and this implies the possibility that, on a given day and at a certain price, they can achieve certain benefits when it comes to selling shares in society. Why is this well-regulated? Because in this way they are stimulated primarily by employees to engage far more in their jobs in terms of the income of a company, in particular a limited-response society, and thus achieve their own benefits. This advantage for itself implies, of course, certain expectations that now appear to be quite realistic, and this realistic expectation is that it will achieve a certain favourable price when selling the share of society in the way it is regulated. What's very good is it's very good that this stake is, let's say, protected. Protected in such a way that every society cannot have more than 40% of its own shares reserved, further, which the reserved share cannot have and what is also well solved, or normised, is when that reserved own share can even be annulled, or converted into more reserved own shares. Why am I saying this? In order to simplify the regulation, which will enable employees to benefit from the benefits, we need to bear in mind several facts. The first fact is that each of the employees must have adequate legal protection when using that instrument that is exclusively financial in nature, which means the following in translation. If he has exercised the right to use this financial instrument, then his right must be guaranteed within the time limits that are regulated here, i.e. envisaged, in my opinion extremely realistically in practical terms. But what if the price is not paid, what is the consequence of such a situation? Well, the consequence of such a situation is judicial protection, and he has the right to press charges and to seek either the claim, on the basis of his financial instrument, or the right to grant him a certain monetary benefit, or to claim the right to the status of a person, who has the right to do so, as head of law. Of course, in this direction, only commercial courts will be competent, given that economic courts are also competent for legal status, when it comes to companies, or when the Business Society Act is applied. Now, what could be polymanically, the Honorable Minister, is next. This was all, let's say, legal rhetoric, which can be clear enough for citizens or perhaps even vague, but what the citizens are going to tang, as employees, are the following facts. This law, like any other law, must have a so-called general fact that we are not related to one segment of employees, but to all employees. However, here we focused on one part of the companies, so we said what business companies will automatically be able to guarantee and enforce these rights to employees. These are companies in IT technology. Why? Well, because these societies, for relatively small financial investments, are set up, and then make big revenues, big profits and these societies have a great perspective. In addition, it is companies dealing with IT technologies that are looking for a huge number of employees, exclusively from IT professions. So, information technologies are, not a suspicious perspective, but is that how we're going to bring other companies into a discriminatory position, how much we're pushing just the closed societies dealing with IT technologies? I think we will personally. The second problem, which in practice may arise, the respected ministers, is the following nature, we say here to stimulate employees, so that, by virtue of this law, through the sale of stakes, they will achieve certain benefits, because these sales will be at the advantage of prices, and they will receive the appropriate compensation for their work. The logical question is now being raised, and we, as a party that is consistently, committed and sincerely fighting for the social rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and above all for the rights of employees, are asking the question, which companies today, given the economic situation in the Republic of Serbia, can guarantee these rights? I believe that, or we socialists, we have the view that this is not a large number of companies, we have a very large number of companies on the edge, the so-called Solvency Business or Solvency, which do not have a large number of employees and which do not have much motivation, that through the reserved shares, as they are regulated here, are determined according to employees, in terms of their better position, a better position when it comes to obtaining income. Why? Well, because these companies are at the very edge of a profitable business anyway, and if they're on the edge of a profitable business, it's logical to ask the question, will they be able to gain a stake without a burden, from their member, because a single-member society can acquire these reserved shares, but the question is, how will this placement be implemented later? Therefore, we are not overly optimistic, and if we have reason to be optimistic, we are not overly optimistic about the realisation of this law, in full capacity. In the end, he just wants me to touch one more question, in a few seconds, it's public notebooks and prevent terrorism. I have to draw attention to the fact that public notebooks responded to the 2018 task, that they filed 230 suspicious reports, and in 2019, 87. I just want to point out their big role in preventing terrorism, and in that direction, we will support this law. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention, and on behalf of our parliamentary group, to draw your attention once again to the fact that it is indisputable, which is that we always support everything that is in the spirit of social justice and that gives citizens of the Republic of Serbia a better life, and that is why the Socialists fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66945	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66946	Just one brief explanation. I thank you for constructive thinking and for the proposal, but just to draw attention that this is not only true for certain companies but is applicable to all companies. So we can rule that out. I, as a minister, have as much worry as you do about how it's going to go, but we certainly should have gotten into something like this because it's certainly good especially in the IT industry and there is, and the Ministry of Economy has set an example of IT industry because I think it's the first area where something like that can live and where there's a great deal of interest, given that IT experts are a little bit with higher salaries and incomes and when-when they're very interested in entering the ownership structure and thus contribute to that IT company's going to market and be better positioned. It was just given as an example, and of course it was made possible for all companies, and as a colleague from the Ministry of Industry said, we should work on it, because the procedure itself is very complicated and the question of how and how it will be brought to life, but I think that, with the particular cooperation of the Ministry of Economy, it is important for us to do so and to have at least one positive example, and I believe that it will live very quickly in our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66947	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66948	I thank you, Chairman. It's a great pleasure to think the same way. To remove one dilemma, when I said not to bring into discriminatory position that other segment of companies that are not in the area of IT technology, I am now trying to be completely precise. It's true that the law applies to everything, but you and I obviously share the same thought. And the question is, are we going to be able to animate all the companies so that this law is acceptable and for those that I'm essentially not sure will be able to feel at the very beginning? The practical effect of this law. What seems very important to me is the fact that just where we have a small number of employees, we need to stimulate the employer to step up their business environment through a business environment, to increase their business environment through business, only then are the conditions for the practical application of this law to be most effective. Since due to the time that I had to, of course, let my colleagues respect that they too discuss, or take part in the discussion on this subject, I would like to point out one more fact when it comes to this law, the respected ministers, and that is the fact that when we talk about stimulation, when it comes to consultants, whether it is going to be one question that might be said meaningfully or not, but the question is whether consultants should be given full capacity to acquire shares under this law and in this way consultants might put in a slightly larger or more privileged position than other employees in a commercial society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66949	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66950	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia next to the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, there is no Ljubisa Stojmirovic, who says that Crna Trava is the most beautiful place in Serbia, and I think it is Svrlig after all. For me, the most important thing is to mention everything I've just said because I've been doing since the beginning of being an MP in 2014, chosen from the list of SNS – Aleksandar Vukic, and I represent in the Assembly of the United Peasant Party. So far, I have always talked about all those problems that affect all of us living in southeastern Serbia, mountainous mountainous areas, the problems of people living in the country, living from the village, and now we have a set of laws concerning very certain things that we can save, certain resources for our people, for the budgets of these local self-governments, for greater financial assistance, for agriculture, for social aid, for our endangered and normal, we have a great chance of making these laws a certain thing faster and to develop even more economy and agriculture, in southeastern Serbia in underdeveloped areas. Otherwise, I'm going to say a few things that are specifically related to the public procurement bill, because we have a bill that was passed in 2012, and then he's had additions, where now this addition of the Public Procurement Act and some things are getting closer and they're going faster for the needs of public administrations, local self-government, because certain guidelines now give this law the opportunity to end things much faster, what's important is that people who are the highest quality bidders that companies that have the highest quality conditions can get jobs, and that those who just want to fingulate, make problems, in this way they put out of strength, i.e. give greater opportunity to quality, value and all that matters. We heard how much money was saved when the Public Procurement Act was passed, how much money was provided for some other activities, for the purposes of our small environments. Otherwise, I am very interested in making these things even better realized, that the purchases that are being delivered and needed, to do certain jobs in local self-government, in homes of health, in clinical centres, wherever it is necessary to be in the most favourable, best way for users of services, for those people who use these services there. In particular, I think it's the only way to provide more resources for a better life, to invest those resources in those areas where I come from, that next time we talk, you're not just saying that the most beautiful municipality in Serbia is the municipality of Srljig, but the municipality that has the greatest prosperity. In order to have the need to invest a lot more money in these environments, to separate more funds and for these new companies through certain stimulating measures, as said Mr., fellow MP Nedga from the MP club of the SPS, a lot of things are here in this proposal of the law on business societies and spoken, related to IT technology, to open such companies, but also a particularly big deal is to provide more resources to stimulate the employment of people in the environments from which I come, from such municipalities, to provide better conditions, to be larger subsidies to business entities, to provide more grants for subsidies to agriculture, to provide more resources to solve infrastructure problems, and finally, in our areas where our villages are all talking about when it is difficult, because one village, secondly, is so good, that we have a lot of attention in our businesses, that we have to talk about these things, in terms, and in terms of health, we have to talk about our children. These are all the elements so that when we save money, when we bring this new Public Procurement Act, we have the opportunity to save a lot of money and use these resources for the purpose of solving the problems of our people living in the country, living from the village, living in southeastern Serbia in mountainous and mountainous areas, in underdeveloped municipalities, in municipalities that are the fourth group of underdeveloped municipalities. Only in this way, such investment and more investment must be for each newborn child, for each unemployed maternity family must have a greater difference in investment compared to people and women and newborn children living in larger centres, in developed cities and municipalities. Well, that's why we have to give more resources to Srlig and the White Palanca and Gajina Hanna and Babushnica and all those municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and all those people living in the country and from the village. Through such investments, I am sure that we would have the opportunity to have at least someone return to these municipalities, in these villages, and on the other hand, some people would not go to Slovakia or Germany, if we provided more resources. This is what we're doing with the laws we're making right now, where there's a chance of saving, and it's proven in the previous period that a lot of work has been done on these savings, through the public procurement program, through the public procurement administration, the public procurement administration that's very active. A large number of problems are being solved, but now this law will further improve and give us the opportunity to provide more resources to develop undeveloped areas, in the development of our villages, in the development of agriculture, in young people in the country, in women in the country. Normally, when we develop our villages, we develop, I'm sure, and those municipalities that are, as they say, border areas where if our people go from them to larger centres, believe me, it will be very difficult for Serbia to progress. I will once again as president of the United Peasants' Party, as a MP, support a set of all these laws, because I think it is necessary and it would be good to do so before. Well done, once again, to the promoters, because this is necessary for the development of our areas. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66951	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66952	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us a set of very important laws, however, under the circumstances that my colleagues spoke before me, I will refer to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Games on Happiness. When it comes to the law on gambling, it is important that the changes we are discussing the product, in particular the needs and obligations of further harmonisation of national legislation in this area and with the EU directives of 2015 and 2018, and with the recommendations of the FATF, i.e. the intergovernmental organisations established in 1989, on the proposal of the G-7 Group, therefore, by the seven most developed countries to develop combat policies, above all, against money laundering and organised terrorism at international level. Even 30 years ago, the assessment was on the international level that the gambling sector is very vulnerable, i.e. a problem area when it comes to money laundering and terrorist financing, as it is a huge amount of money that ends up in gambling. And in our national strategy to fight money laundering and terrorist financing, it was adopted in 2015. - In 2019, gambling is marked as a sensitive area which is necessary to further edit and ensure adequate legal and social control over the preparation of these games and monitor the money flows in this sector. We know that neither in Serbia nor in Serbia the money circulating in the gambling sector is small nor negligible, especially in view of the appearance of a growing number of private gambling directors, especially when it comes to toys or sports bookies. The reminders, for the sake of making games of chance according to the law on gambling, are organized for entertainment of participants and winnings, whether in money, whether in services or rights. People's MPs are getting out of place. I don't hear myself. (Milorad Mircic: We apologize, colleague, but we must communicate with the minister. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66953	I'm asking my colleagues to let their colleague finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66954	Respect for colleagues and their communication with the minister. I can also stop if that communication is important because I think the ministers and the law I'm talking about is terribly important. So, I will remind myself of the fact that, in accordance with the law on gambling, part of the gambling fund of 40% is the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget and is used, above all, to finance the Red Cross and the Organisation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, sports and youth, local self-government, as well as to treat rare diseases. On the other hand, attention should be paid to the fact that gambling is not allowed, i.e. by law, to minors, so that the editors are obliged to adhere to these prohibitions and to show social responsibility by respecting the law when it comes to minors. Indeed, this is what I am particularly happy about because of the fact that more and more minors in Serbia are looking for a way, it becomes dependent on different types of gambling and is being reached in various ways, innovative, how to get into these toys, thinking naively that this is the shortest way to a fast fortune. So, making games of chance that have their positive but also negative old age should be placed in such a legal framework, which, above all, prevents abuses in the money laundering area. It is known that in the increasingly organized game director, big money, turns, whose origins may not even know, before players had no obligation to prove the origin of their money, no matter how much money it is. The European Union, as well as other countries in the world, recognized the danger of large amounts of money of uncontrollable origin, so they also adopted directives to prevent money laundering through gambling. In this respect, these amendments to the laws are also aimed at introducing European standards in the field of game-making, fortunately with regard to preventing money laundering and financing terrorism from contributing to legal certainty, as well as improved control and preventive action to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing in this area. At the same time, it should enable and consistently implement our national strategy to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the action plan. I believe that the government is already considering a new strategy for the next period, because the period covered by the previous strategy is currently emphasising itself. Let's not forget that there's an important role in preventing money, even when it comes to gambling, there's a money laundering management that's part of the finance ministry. A new legal solution that I support, which is a member of the 55th applicable law, not only enables the entry into the toy room only to the full-time persons, but also to prescribe one obligation for processors, to provide the persons entering the toy room with a permanent database, which treats the name, name, date and place of birth, place of residence, or residence, personal number or number of passports, date and time and exit from the toy room, as well as a written statement by a person who, under material and criminal responsibility, declares that he participates in gambling on his own account and on his own behalf. This newspaper will certainly contribute to a more responsible approach both processors and players, because you will be able to monitor the money flows used in gambling and by any player. On the other hand, there is a obligation to keep a business secret about gambling participants, but when there is a need for this, a processor obligation has been established to make these data available to competent authorities dealing with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. This law now very precisely regulates issues of proof of ownership structure, also important work, way of financial operations and audit control for the editor, the real owner in the process of obtaining a license to play games of chance or a person buying the stake, i.e. actions or increases the share in the structure of the game-makers' capital or toys. It is also required from the editors and his real owner and related persons that documents which confirm that they are not convicted, or that criminal acts are conducted against them, against the economy or money laundering and for a number of other parts listed in this law. This will prevent directors from being persons with the capital of suspected origin or of capital acquired by committing criminal acts. I am convinced that such stricter legal conditions for a gambling director will contribute to a much better control of money flows, and thus to preventing money laundering or financing potential terrorism money that participates in gambling or won gambling. This legal solution in front of us is probably not the best or final solution. I suppose they'll also have their better version of the supplement over time, but the changes that are proposed are really important for one stability at the moment. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must say that we will also support this law, as well as the entire set proposed in the voting day. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66955	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66956	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I will use the remaining time of my parliamentary group to look back at significant changes and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. We will all agree that all global problems and the negative consequences of money laundering and terrorist financing affect the stability, efficiency and transparency of the entire financial system by reducing investment and losing international reputation in the world. Based on estimates, money laundering and a risk assessment of terrorist financing, national vulnerability to money laundering has been assessed as a medium based on an analysis of the state's ability to defend itself against money laundering and sectoral vulnerability analysis. An analysis carried out to achieve the above-mentioned goal has shown for the Republic of Serbia that the overall risk of money laundering is medium. This assessment results in an assessment of the threat of money laundering and national vulnerability to money laundering. Based on an analysis of all crimes, sectoral threats and cross-border threats, the overall assessment of the threat of money laundering is a medium with a trend without change. Money laundering is a complex phenomenon. The way of dirty money is not easy to spot and recognize, which certainly makes it difficult to take timely measures to detect, prevent and combat it. In order to increase the efficiency of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, both the UN and the EU have adopted several conventions that oblige Member States to bring their legislation into line with these international documents. In Serbia, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing was regulated by the law of 2017, which entered into force in 2018 and then we defined money laundering as conversion or transfer of property acquired by the execution of a criminal offence, concealment or incorrect display of the nature of origin, place of find, movement of availability, ownership or property rights acquired by this criminal act. Money laundering is also the acquisition, holding or use of property acquired by the execution of this crime. Otherwise, money laundering has its basic stages – three vases. The first stage is to break the direct link between the money and the illegal activity it has acquired, i.e. the money is introduced into the financial system. The second stage involves hiding the link between money and criminal activity that prompts the transfer from the account to which it has been deposited to other accounts. The third stage is the stage of integration in which money appears as money that stems from the allowed activity. Under the act of financing terrorism is the provision or collection of money used to carry out terrorist acts, as well as the acquisition of money from terrorists or terrorist organisations. The Republic of Serbia is in the process of harmonising and adapting its legislation with EU requirements and standards. In the area of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, the so-called standards are prescribed. The 5th Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018 amending the fourth Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. I would remind you that last week, at the previous session, we adopted an agreement with Eurocasta, an EU body co-ordinated by co-operation between national judicial bodies in the prosecution of serious cross-border crime. The focus of this judicial co-operation is on criminal acts such as terrorism, human trafficking, drugs, money laundering and other organised crime activities. The relevant law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing should be fully brought into line with those legal assets and the Fifth Directive, which I have mentioned. In view of the objective of amending and supplementing the Law, technical harmonisation with international standards, i.e. EU legal flows, is an important part of the changes in question concern international co-operation, which is the basis for effective and timely response and prevention of money laundering, i.e. terrorist financing. In this connection, it is important to point out that the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, was established as early as 2003, into full membership of the Egmont Group, an international organisation of financial and intelligence services, aimed at raising the level of international co-operation between national and financial intelligence services and exchanges of information relating to money laundering and terrorist financing. Maintaining full membership in this group is important, given that both money laundering and terrorist financing are largely criminal acts with a foreign element and that the fight against them on the national agenda is difficult to imagine without effective international co-operation and depends on the adoption of legislation that will cover preventive measures and enable the Republic of Serbia to exchange data with foreign authorities. [[jamour in the O.R.]] Otherwise, international standards in the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are also prescribed by the international FATF body, which develops and improves measures and actions to combat laundering and terrorist financing at national and international level. [[jamour in the O.R.]] In February 2012, the organisation adopted some new international standards in the field of prevention, detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. At that time, these 40 recommendations for Member States should implement national legislation in order to demonstrate technical compliance with standards and to prevent money laundering, to fund terrorism, to spread weapons of mass destruction. Currently you have 39 member states, Serbia is not among them, but by opening Chapters 23 and 24 of the EU, Serbia has committed to adopting these recommendations as well. I would also mention the Committee on the Manival of the Council of Europe, which was established in 1997 with the aim of assessing the compliance of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system in Member States with international standards. This committee regularly reports on the state and recommendations to improve the system for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing in the Member States. Serbia was subject to the fifth round of evaluation in respect of actions and measures taken at national level and further recommendations have been made, such as issues related to public notebooks and lawyers subject to these amendments and the addition of the law. Among the criteria Serbia had to meet to be removed from the list, produced by FATF, there was a better understanding of the risk factors, control, approximation of the organisation's standards, guarantees for adequate and effective investigations and processing, as well as penalties for financing terrorism. As the report published in February this year, the organisation said, Serbia implemented key reforms and was removed from the gray list. The creation of an efficient system, opposing this problem, the problem of financing terrorism and money laundering, requires the improvement of the normative framework with firm mechanisms and clear roles of each institution, both those acting preventively and repressively. Further, building, improving and developing mechanisms to quickly remove vulnerability in areas most at risk of money laundering implies clear application and co-operation of all institutions. This is particularly true for financial institutions' mechanisms, supervisory authorities for monitoring financial flows. So these amendments and additions to the laws were built, of course, in accordance with the recommendations I spoke of and of course we will support this bill as a parliamentary group and this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66957	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66958	I thank you, Chairman. I point to Article 27's injury in relation to Article 26. Rules of Procedure, so I ask you, in the course of the debate, if anything, to allow Members of Parliament to participate normally in the debate on an important set of laws. At the expense of my esteemed colleagues and friends from the parliamentary group, you have allowed the rude Article 106, paragraph 3, to be injured, which says that during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. If you, the Honorable Chairman, think that it is allowed here to significantly overcome the marble and start to get used to it here, who will be able to show through the discussion what he wants to show to understand both the promoter and everyone else who is with them? Then we have one big problem, and that problem manifests itself in two directions. One direction is the disrespect of MPs, which has never happened by MPs in the SPS parliamentary group, and on the other hand we devalue and depreciate our work and this home, which should rightly be a temple of democracy, we show in one ugly light to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think you should take care of it and protect both the MPs and this Parliament and respect the citizens for it. For this reason, I ask you to sanction this kind of behaviour in the future by applying the Rules of Procedure, as did your predecessor, Arsic, when he warned the MPs who had disturbed my colleagues in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66959	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Nedjo Jovanovic: Yes. Yes, thank you. Let's move on. I ask the MPs that we may create an atmosphere as in the theatre if there is a will for it, if not Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66960	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, which sets out in this area to comply with EU standards and directives. In addition to EU institutions, international standards in the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are also prescribed by the international FATF body, which, under its jurisdiction in February 2012, brought new international standards in the area of the prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, known as FATF recommendations. The law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing needs to be fully brought into line with those EU legal assets, which will be achieved by these amendments and amendments to the laws. Given that the objective of amending and supplementing the laws is to technical compliance with international standards, i.e. EU legal assets, an important part of the changes in question concern international co-operation which is the basis... [[jamour in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66961	If there's peace and quiet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66962	... for effective and timely prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In this connection, it is important to point out that the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering in 2003 was admitted to full membership of the Egmont Group, an international organisation of financial and intelligence services, aimed at raising the level of international co-operation between national financial and intelligence services and the exchange of information relating to money laundering and terrorist financing. Membership in the organisation also implies a rapid harmonisation of rules with international standards, especially in the area of international co-operation. Maintaining full membership in the Egomnt Group is extremely important for the state of Serbia given that both money laundering and financing of terrorism are largely criminal acts with a foreign element and that the fight against them on the national agenda can be difficult to imagine without effective international co-operation and depends on the adoption of legislation, which will, of course, cover preventive measures and enable the Republic of Serbia to exchange data with foreign authorities and authorities. The basic objective of amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is, in fact, to improve the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and to bring this law into line with all other international standards concerning the area. The amendments and additions to this law aim to improve the legal framework for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, taking into account the comments and recommendations contained in the second report, so that the system has a basis for improving efficiency and efficiency. In addition to the basic objective associated with the implementation of international standards, the intensity of this law is to pre-warning the preventive system against money laundering and terrorist financing, by introducing new persons into a circle of law-abiding entities. Money laundering and terrorist financing are two criminal phenomena that develop very quickly. Criminals find new, more perfident ways, concealing the criminal origin of money and its purposes, and the necessary state, as a legislator, is in step with changes, or if it is possible to take a step ahead of them and predict areas that can be abused in order to act preventively, because the removal of the consequences resulting from the execution of the criminal act is a major stress for the system and is causing much greater costs. Another law that practically complies with Recommendation 28. The FATF is also the Transport Intermediation and Immobilisation Act, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. So, by amending that law... [[jamour in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66963	I'm sorry. I urge colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia to enable counterpart Natasa Vacic Mihailovic to address us and the citizens. Excuse me, I've warned twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66964	Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law on Intermediation, Transport and Immobilisation are practically strengthened and complemented by those provisions which prohibit persons convicted of certain criminal offences from establishing or controlling persons who provide services subject to regulation of certain laws, in this case the Transport Act and the lease of immovable property. The second report by the Manival Committee of December 2018, on enhanced monitoring and technical compliance of the Republic of Serbia with the FATF recommendations, recognised technical shortcomings regarding adequate implementation of relevant recommendations, including a concrete argument that no measures were taken to prevent criminals from controlling real estate agents. These changes and additions to the law are solving this problem right now. Therefore, the provisions prohibiting persons convicted of those offences will be strengthened to establish or control persons providing services for traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property. So, only non-convicted persons can deal with traffic mediation and the lease of immovable property. The desired result will be the registration of the register, therefore, only intermediaries with the principal activity of the real estate agency, as well as the prevention of criminal occurrences of money laundering and terrorist financing in this important service activity that has millions of turnover in both euro and dinars. When it comes to the measurement of the achievement of this objective, this will be possible after the harmonisation of the provision of a cross-actional activity, when practically resolutely the Ministry of Trade, in accordance with the new regulation, will also issue solutions on the erasure of intermediaries from the register. Also, in the future, no intermediary who does not have an adequate code of activity and who is punished will be legally able to deal with traffic interventions and the lease of immovable property, because it will not be able to register. The law will improve the legal framework for the detection, prevention and control of money laundering and financing of terrorism and terrorist acts. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will support these bill proposals in the voting day, because one of the programme's definitions of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is a consistent fight against crime and violence, as well as their causes. Safe life, life without fear of violence and crime is a special quality. Security as a general good must be guaranteed to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of his status and property opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66965	Thank you, Mrs. Vacic Mihailovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66966	Article 107. Mr Marinkovic, a short time ago, your colleague Jovanovic warned you, called, in fact, to calm down the fire in the hall, referring to MPs of the ruling coalition who did not have the patience to listen, and you, in the absence of courage or indiscipline or for some reason, did not do so, but waited for Djordje Vukadinovic here to speak a little louder to the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to attribute it to the Serbian Radical Party. We don't mind, we learned. We know that you are in certain moments a man who, in addition to tolerance, owns some democratic, basic democratic principles. Sometimes we communicate, but mostly with the minister, we exchange views on the bill's proposals. We helped him and he helped us, whoever else, now it doesn't matter. But I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and not only to apostrophe the SRS, when it is done by Djordje Vukadinović, and you must not show the same archina towards the group that is on your right, or on your left, depending on which side you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66967	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I'm really trying to have the same archaic towards everyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66968	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like the National Assembly to declare a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66969	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Now the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, you can see the enthusiasm of the ruling coalition's MPs. Believe me, there was nothing less of mine when I listened to the previous speakers. I especially must apostrophe what Mr. Arsic said and I must commend that it was indeed the right choice for the SNS parliamentary group to appoint him as an obvious economic expert for this point. Because believe that every announcement by Mr. Arsic gives an immeasurable contribution to economic science. I'm just wondering, if he hadn't been attacked by that fly in the 15th minute, what would we know by the end? Maybe you should check that it wasn't a teletelegated fly, that Bastac didn't send it, that Gilas didn't send it, because it's such a riot in moments of Mr. Arsic's greatest eloquence, it's really rare to see. We have heard from previous speakers that we from the opposition should no longer talk about bad living in Serbia, that it is a thing of the past and that simply such arguments are out of the question. However, there is one problem, which is the official record of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. And whenever you look at these data, we see that today in Serbia, the situation is worse than it has ever been. I have proved to you, Mr. Minister, in one of the previous discussions that the real value of pensions today is only 86% compared to the value of pensions in 2012. You talk persistently about how GDP is growing, how we have a fantastic third quarter in 2019, how Serbia is a country of prosperity and how we live in the golden age. However, when we look at reference statistics, especially those coming from the EU, here, for example I took Eurostat statistics today, and we see that it's actually incomparable, incomparably up there. If it is to trust your mentors from the EU, the economic growth in Serbia from 2012 to 2016 is only 2.07% and these data are completely devastating. At the same time, the average GDP growth in the Eurozone was 10.11%. Of course, of the most powerful countries, the most economically powerful, you can't expect this growth to be great, but in that period in Germany it was 15.9%. In Bulgaria, poor Bulgaria, with which we can compare somewhat, although GDP per capita is significantly smaller in our country, their growth was 14.71%, so seven times higher in that period than in the country's Serbia. In Romania, watch out, in Romania, which has practically twice the GDP per capita compared to Serbia, the growth in that period was 27.21%, which is about 13.5 times more than in Serbia. Not to mention smaller countries like Malta, which had a growth rate of 44.84% in that period. Now, all of this, gentlemen dear, is saying how bad the situation is in Serbia and it says that simply Serbia at this pace will not only never reach EU countries, but that gap between us and them is deepening. What is particularly worrying is the fact that the parity of purchasing power of EU and Serbian countries is extremely bad and not increasing, but stagnating over the past six or seven years. It says there is no real increase and that your quasi economic measures simply did no good to the citizens of Serbia. To return to Mr. Arsic, as an economic expert of the SNS. He presented one fascinating piece of information. He says that in 2012, not the government, it was particularly pointed out, but the SNS parliamentary group submitted the Public Procurement Act, it was one of the first laws of the newly formed regime, and said the law endured all the trials it was put on. Now how do you explain it in the context of the fact that this law has experienced changes and additions and that this law has not been good enough, but you've had to, who knows how many times, resort to the adoption of a Lex specialist to enforce the provisions of that law. So it was with "Belgrade on Water", so it was with the construction of the Moravia Corridor, which you started whether yesterday or when it was. The question is, why are you breaking that law today, if he's so good? Well, it's not good, of course it's not good. If it was good, you wouldn't bring a new one. You just can't convince yourself of what you're saying anymore. You follow that wing that a hundred times repeated lie becomes true, but you are denied official data and official statistics. (Alexander Markovic: Leave time for Mircic. ) Here comes Mr. Markovic, another of the economic experts of the SNS. Let me repeat, Alexander Markovic is an economic expert. It would be good if we heard from Mr. Arsic, believe me, I'm impressed by his knowledge, it would be good to hear what he really is by profession, what is he by profession? Mr. Arsic, while in the SRS, I must admit that he was not one of those who promised much, nor was he among the most beautiful, nor was he among the smartest. He had a high-tech high school in his education at the time, so he was a middle electrician. He didn't like to put it as an occupation, so he put a private entrepreneur as an occupation. Now, he's finally somewhere on the threshold of six decades of his life seems to have finished college, become an economist, so he's writing on this last SNS list. I don't think he graduated from high school, even though he'd be an economic technician. So now I'm curious, let's see what the degree of knowledge is and where it has acquired all these skills and abilities that are practically day-to-day astounding to us from the SRS parliamentary group, but even more and more the general public in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66971	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66972	The respected chairman, respected ministers, today's set of laws shows major changes in Serbia that expect us to see economic growth next year of 4%. This shows not only the Serbian budget that we adopted for 2020 a few days ago, but also certain publications of economic experts from the Faculty of Economics, professors who are the biggest critics of the economy of the Government of Serbia. The presentation "Quartal Monitor" by Professor Milo Arsic acknowledges that GDP growth and our economy will go over 3.5% next year, and the IMF has changed that growth to 4% in its December 4th presentation. Therefore, international institutions and all those critics agree that there is a high growth rate. For this reason, the Fiscal Council insisted on applying Swiss formulas when it comes to salaries and pensions. What is ours to change in Serbia's investment environment and this set of laws that we have on the agenda today, is one of the most important public procurement laws, which have survived several changes as a new legal solution since 2013, because the life we have had since 2013 has changed a lot, survived economic reforms here in Serbia, our economy fiscal consolidation, the inflow of foreign direct investment and a complete change in Serbia's economic picture both in the country and abroad. When we talk about the Public Procurement Act, it should be said that it has been created for a very long time. So this law-making process began two years ago, and in 2018, in June, the working group formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do this draft, i.e. the bill was then attended by three public discussions held in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. In view of the reports of Chapter 5 concerning public procurement, in co-operation with the European Commission in Brussels in June this year, the draft of this law was practically presented. Of course, the draft was the subject of discussion and the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of public spending. Before the committee itself here in the Serbian Parliament, when a session was called in early September, when we had a session in Zrenjanin and there we had opportunities in direct contact, as MPs with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, with representatives of the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures, to see what the papers are and whether the newspaper will really speed up the decision-making process when it comes to this area. What we have seen, above all, is that simplified participation when it comes to self-providers, is that only for bidders over five million dinars is required to provide their data and documentation for consent, when it comes to obtaining contracts, that thresholds, when it comes to the Public Procurement Act, are increased - three million for services, one million for goods, which means that the process, which so far refers to three offers, should help in areas such as culture, education, health care, not delaying such a process and life that is happening in all institutions of culture, education and health, to prevent it from happening in certain health institutions that there are not enough resources for everyday life in hospitals, schools, cultural institutions. It is very important to say that the use of the capacities of other entities is exactly one of the EU directives implemented in this law, as well as the division of parties. What was very interesting was for all the public procurement, whether they were big or so-called. small, they should stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises to report as many public ads as possible, thus reducing the monopoly and increasing competition. When we talk about increasing competition, it should also be said that the State Audit Institute has done one review of the relevance of whether it is necessary to ensure competition in the process of centralised public procurement and, accordingly, the Competition Protection Commission, in collaboration with certain partners on different types of projects, whether the EU, USAID, has considered examples of good practice in protecting competition and public procurement and where there is, in fact, an innovative representation policy and what it looks like. The most important part is, in fact, the introduction of a digitisation process, so what's most important is that it will work out a new portal for public procurement, where a large part of the functioning process will go by electronic means, and therefore the part that you know is going through the Post Office of Serbia or through some other systems, the delivery of documents will be shortened, the process, the time and the money. So, they're going to cheap the procedure for both sides and sides, when we're talking about both bidders and those who simply organize these public procurements, it's going to be necessary to make so-called. Electronic catalogues, to contract public procurement of best offers, will also be the one that should lead to the conclusion of the contract. However, here is the possibility of changing the contract at a much higher level, because, you know, life has shown that many of the rigid procedures of public procurement have come to the very end of the process. On the one hand, a lot of things have been done liberally, and on the other hand, all these restrictions should have a control character. So much more control of the public procurement process has been carried out. If we want to conclude in principle the proposal for a new law on public procurement, it should be said that it should prevent all kinds of abuses, that all changes that happen gradually, that the digitisation process will in fact provide a lot of things, in addition to transparency and raising standards and service levels and what is important, it will speed up the public procurement process itself and reduce costs when it comes to this area. What we can even say about public procurement is that the big problems were, especially at the local level. We see it based on the DRI report all year round, but somewhere in greater control, the level of money we're talking about in public procurement has been slowly shrinking over the past three to four years. This means that somewhere those people who were engaged in public procurement at the bar learned the process and the process as it seems and simply began to apply the law strictly, i.e. less and less, paying the penalties for which they were punished when it comes to the procurement process. In addition to this Public Procurement Act, the Public Debt Act is on the agenda. When we talk about what public debt is, we know that at the end of the previous year, 31. The 12th amounted to 23 billion 328m 438m euros and that the unguaranteed debt, when we talk about local self-government, was 313m 835m000 730 euros. In fact, these amendments and the additions to the laws go towards introducing more control when it comes to local self-government and therefore these are the responsibilities that exist with local self-government under the greater scope of the Ministry of Finance itself and all other institutions that control and the directives themselves that apply when it comes to the Public Debt Act in general. When it comes to cash transactions, settlement of deadlines, they are very important because as of July 1st 2020, the deadline for those who need to settle their debts is defined precisely by law and by the part relating to the payment of electronic invoices. So, the digitisation process itself is being introduced in this part, which is essentially showing that those debtors so far simply felt that the state has freed them from such a procedure somewhere, and now they have to be aware that they are really strict arches of law enforcement and that, by doing so, no one will be able to find themselves in the gray area anymore. When we talk about the Customs Tariff Act, it is a very interesting topic, because it is domestic production for the tractor industry and it is of great importance to us when it comes to the export programme, because the state, after all, is incomeing from customs and taxis, and we are thus promoting and increasing domestic production. So she's saying that imports are increasing to the export contaminants, simply, these laws are reducing and thus increasing our domestic productivity. The laws on gambling and when we talk about amendments and additions to the Money Laundering Act and the part relating to the so-called FATF and Manival provisions, I think we've had enough time to hear from my SPS colleagues, the listeners. Those who are not, you know that we simply introduce certain international standards for these laws, which is of great importance, especially when it comes to money laundering, that any individual found at the stroke of the law, on any basis, really cannot deal with this business and, ultimately, the state itself is carrying out much more control in this area. The tobacco law, with its changes and additions, should ensure predictability of a company in general, or a company dealing with tobacco production and greater transparency, although you know that part of the other part is in force in relation to the bans of the use of tobacco in general. Then it is always difficult for the state to stimulate certain companies involved in this business in a certain way, and thus the state, by increasing certain fees for customs or excise duties, by filling the budget, but, on the one hand, the other ministries, such as the Ministry of Health, have a certain policy to promote that in young people there is less and less of this kind of procedure and there should be no such use. When we talk about the Law on the Central Register for Mandatory Social Insurance, we have here some fundamental changes that show that the process of digitization and connection with the Ministry of Education and Science is very important, because now a certain link is being created between the Ministry of Education and Science itself, where the Central Register for Mandatory Social Insurance will be obliged to send reports based on the net income of employees through this unique information system of education to the Ministry of Education, so we will have the opportunity to see if some professors are working on several colleges and receive more fees and whether this is in accordance with certain laws. All of this will be given a certain way to exercise greater control when it comes to teachers and professors, which the Ministry of Education has noticed is that there are obviously certain problems in this segment and that is why it insisted that such changes happen. Generally, the summary of all these laws today should give a chance that what we adopted with the 2020 budget, where the growth of the economy will be at least 4% in the following year, where we will provide real funding for salaries and pensions under that model that we adopted with the budget, opens up the possibility that really what we talked about last week when we adopted laws on increasing political freedoms, it is really necessary that economic freedoms for which SNS managed to fight and after the time it inherited a total collapse in society when there were wages and pensions and businesses lagging behind and what many, such as Gilas, have made a fortune and managed to earn more than 600 million euros in their companies, to provide themselves with a very easy life now, after so many years of political life, in such a way that they do not have the support of Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other, violence and in an illegal attempt to make a serious attempt at institutions. You've had a chance to see what it's like in the past days and the attacks on institutions and on the outside and on the inside, because what's going on, you know, on these pre-negotiations with all the political entities in society and what's happening with the negotiators from the European Parliament and what's happening and in the RIK itself is, in fact, the desire of all the relevant entities in society, who lead this country to show that there are no conditions that we cannot adopt, and to show the citizens our results, the results of our policy, and that simply through these results we get citizens' support for Serbia's future how we're going to build a new reality, how we're going to bring back all those kids who went abroad to work, because there are going to be a lot of jobs, especially in the IT sector. We've opened up the possibility for these foreign returnees to open their companies, not pay taxes. That's precisely why we simply show every day that we think of all people, all sectors just because we have a better tomorrow. Those who don't have the support of citizens simply don't think well of this Serbia and they don't think well of their attempts to violently lead the state through the dictatorship that the media will look like, through the dictation that any of those who are today leading the state in responsible places, muddling every single person, starts from themselves to their families, actually show that they don't want this country and their future well. Therefore, when we talk about concrete legislative proposals, we should talk to the facts, not to engage in the flat-rate convictions we have by some who have not even received the support to sit here as MPs, but rather rather for some money they have gone to those newly formed parties, movements. Simply, we need to talk with arguments and ignore every kind of violence because it will not contribute to Serbia's better future, but only to what it shows us here, to those who want really well tomorrow, that there is no law that can force us out of any legal framework of the Serbian Constitution to allow someone to enter this assembly illegally and start leading Serbia. For such a thing there is no will of citizens, there is no support and for this reason we in the voting day will exclusively be guided by what are the official proposals of the state, which are the official proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministries and for this reason we today have had opportunities on the Parliament's agenda to vote for a supervisory board that will actually supervise all the electoral actions that we will have in the coming year. In voting day, we need to support this set of laws because it will bring better tomorrow for all of us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66973	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66974	It was interesting today to hear the MPs, representatives of the ruling majority, and we could hear, besides the rest, that the arguments should be made before the citizens, that no law that can be passed could be introduced into the Assembly by the citizens of Serbia. There was only one problem made, that argument was false. Just in 2016, although the lists of Ceda, Canak, Boris and the second DSS list, Dvori did not cross the censorship, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not give them enough votes to cross the 5% censorship threshold, under the pressure of US Ambassador Scott, then the SNS introduced a new formulation in Serbian political life, which is enough to invite you to the US ambassador or some ambassador of influential Western countries and the votes of citizens are not needed and can enter the Assembly as they please. Then when the same politicians, who have not received the trust of the citizens, turn their backs and no longer come to this parliament, then beg them with various discussions, cry for them, to return to the assembly benches. What's interesting, too, was really beautiful and idyllic to listen to the praises of the proposal for a law on public procurement, and I'll remind you that the first Law on Public Procurement came into force on 6 January 2013, I'm talking about SNS law. Now I'm going to remind Mr. Secretary and I'm going to read about how you announced him, since you've made a similar announcement today as you have announced this new law. In 2011, your economic team came out with the next view -- the Serbian economy at an annual level loses up to 10 billion euros through black flows. The Serbian government bears the highest responsibility. More than a billion euros is lost through the form of corruption. A law saving 60 billion dinars means that the state would not have to take international loans, or loans from commercial banks worth 600m euros. This is direct savings, and savings if loans are not taken and debt costs are paid, interest costs, the burden of future generations can certainly be estimated at a billion euros annually. It is also an important mechanism to control the implementation of the negotiation procedure without public call, a mechanism to prevent conflicts of interest and corruption in public procurement. This is how you criticized the law of your natural coalition partners, whose policy you continued, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and others, and then you passed your law and announced savings worth 60 billion dinars and the need for this law, as you announced, will no longer be needed. Let's see, even if we believe you, then you were in opposition, so you brought out, which is not foreign to you, false to deceive the citizens of Serbia, let's see what you said about that law when you passed it. In December 24, 2012, Parliament Speaker Nebojsa Stefanovic, today Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, estimated that by adopting the law, which was then passed, on public procurement, I am talking about the law that Arsic spoke of, that he has endured the pillar of time, endured everything possible, to save between 600 million and a billion euros annually. Be careful, I repeat, because of the citizens of Serbia, it means from January 2013 until today, for six full years, you were supposed to save at an annual level of 600 million to a billion euros a year. Which means we're talking about between five and six and a half billion euros this time, and you'd probably know that money better if you spent it, you wouldn't be taking credit as you announced. Nebojsa Stefanovic further said that savings will be surprised and the biggest skeptics. Here, I'm just shaking, I'm shocked that it's possible that I didn't trust him and the advances at the time that you won't be saving so much and that the contracts will be disabled. The highest SNS official promised it. Then the question arises, and what did you do with projects like Beograd on Water, different corridors, when you used to exclude the Public Procurement Act whenever you thought of it. Furthermore, Stefanovic says, no one will be able to negotiate directly for the money of Serbian citizens in public procurement. I call on Nebojsa Stefanovic to arrest Zorana Mihajlovic. She directly, directly, negotiated with representatives of US companies and accepted a more unfavourable offer, and the gentlemen on the left, more unfortunately, voted in favour of such a proposal. Now, given the fact that you have already praised the law that you have abolished, and which has been in force for nearly seven years, today Minister Djordjevic read a partial explanation of the law, when he explained this bill, and now I am asking Mr. Minister and Mr. Arsic, who praised this law, what are the effects of the application of the 2013 law? How much did you save for those six and a half years? How much in the euro, exactly, of those funds you've saved? Where exactly did you save it? I don't have a problem getting out of the data right away from 2013, in the third and fourth quarter, to prove that you haven't saved 600 million euros, or a billion euros, according to official data, but I want to see if you know, so we can discuss it, it's already been a lot less because you've legalized corruption and continued the DS path where they left off. It's that winged woman - where I left off, you moved on and then you had to start kidnapping from pensioners, cut pensions to fill the budget. So the first and basic question of Minister and Mr Arsic is – give us the effect of the proposed law. How much did you save from the application of the law on 6 January 2013, to this day? And instead of hearing what's wrong today, where you're wrong, so you're proposing a new law, you're going out with completely incorrect information, you're praising the law you're breaking. Again, for Serbia's citizens to repeat only when you passed the law in December 2012, you said the deal would no longer be. You have announced, and the lawyers know what public procurement and tenders are, that those who are the best, who will provide the best, who will give the most, you are for every project where you promised those who came to power to do what you will do, exactly what the DS did, and by these questions you are no different from them at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66975	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, colleague Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66976	Thank you. So, I'm going to talk first and foremost about the law, a little bit and a bit and a bit, about the law on gambling on luck changes and additions to the law on gambling. I say, a little bit and personally because what is now being introduced, I've been struggling for at least 10 years to introduce these things, and I want to welcome what the state is introducing, first of all, in this area. Otherwise, very important, people in Serbia, because of the different campaigns, have a very negative view on all of this and rightly so, since we had a frighteningly large black market that essentially generated, i.e. that it represented in a very ugly way. Now indeed, something is being introduced that is very good, first of all with the increase in the fees to the editors and that almost increases the fees by 100%. I welcome it, because only those who are serious in that area will be able to survive and will no longer be able to show up to various mechanics in that area who have really contributed to literally sometimes the mafia or absolute crime entering that area. Unfortunately, I have to realize that for many years, it hasn't been checked out who opens all those bookies and various casinos, but here, this law is something that promises and I say, only those who are serious players on the market that are domestic, which will be world-renowned. By the way, on the basis of what you are introducing, and I think almost 20m euros can be expected to increase inflows into the budget, 10m euros almost by some estimates of direct fees. Otherwise, it's an area that brings enormous money to our country and it should certainly be developed. People don't even know, for example, in the UK, whoever's in charge of the area, who's in charge of the government, he's a member of the cabinet and first minister, and he's got a low-level minister. It's a serious area where every state wants to carry out a certain kind of control so that money doesn't go black market, which is certainly criminal. I would like us, for example, to introduce legislation like those in the EU, especially, say Malta, it has perfect laws for that. You, in order to open the so-called "Malta" in Malta. Online betting, you have to get at least 40 different licenses, permission to get, fearsome security checks done, just because someone who deals, possibly with crime or some black market wouldn't accidentally enter that market. I think that we could absolutely sharpen the additional control so that eventually some mechanics don't come back to our market. Otherwise, since the future of gambling is certainly online, or online, I want to say hello, which will strengthen the real possibility of obtaining certificates, or permits here. It's what the Military Technical Institute is doing with us right now. It's doing very well. That's the money the Military Technical Institute is getting, and I'm very happy that it stays with our army. They're the ones who give certificates to both machines and editors and the internet at all, the Internet of gambling. I hope that this will develop further and that domestic companies will be the ones who are in charge of this very authorisation, that the Military Technical Institute is certainly one renowned institution and it is good that this money remains with us. What I would have to ask you and see is going in that direction, but I believe that through amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, citizens will change that, someone has so far had a very bad concept of thinking that when you tax players, that then the state will get more money. We lost enormous money with it, and we brought the editors to serious financial problems sometimes because we made a system that if someone gets in the bookie, and he played maybe a hundred times a game and now once he's got 11,000 dinars, he gets taxed. Which is completely out of your mind. Each bookie couldn't charge the player with that tax, but she was giving that money to the player herself, even though she wasn't obliged to do so. Then you had one paradoxical situation that actually the editors were making up for money, which they weren't essentially obliged to give. It's a good thing you're changing it now because when you tax the player he's running away from, he won't play anymore, and now you're going to go the other way that absolutely greets, which is that the editors themselves are increasing significant fees for getting permits, for getting licences for certain games and so on. Of course, you'll get a lot more income as a state than someone had the concept of taxing players, and I hope that in the amendments and additions to the Law on Income of the Citizens, you'll either wipe out that senseless member of 83 or you'll find a solution already. I see that this level has now risen from 11,000 to 100,000 dinars for taxable profit, I hope that will be completely erased since it's completely insane. Affirmation of domestic companies. It's something I like very much especially about granting licenses. I mentioned the Military Technical Institute, I personally advocated it for a long time that the Military Technical Institute would be the one who would issue certificates for obtaining a license for every machine and every online event. I hope that they will expand their diapazone and that indeed the game management that I support is back, because it was completely pointless for me to have the IRS as part of the IRS. It was something that was a complete non-ense and not a reasonable decision of the state in 2012, when it was introduced. It is good that the gambling administration has returned, and I hope that this principle with the Military Technical Institute will really develop, there are, of course, other domestic companies such as the Michael Pupin Institute, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, and so on. So these are all state institutions, it's important that that money stays in the state, that by chance some foreign company that would come here to "suck out" literally money, that it doesn't get it because that money is still needed by our citizens. What you are about to raise directly into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I say, 20m euros is considered to be more money in the budget, which means more money for hospitals, more money for schools, more money for sports fields, more money for socially endangered because social responsibility in this so-called gaming industry, or gambling industry, is something that is very important. All renowned companies in the world are developing the principle of social responsibility and are especially fighting for treatment of disease addiction. I'm glad that certain companies have recognized it and that in collaboration with Draiser Street and various institutes, they approach it very, very seriously, that all their operators have to go to training in Draiser Street, to recognize an addict, because the point is not to deprive someone of their own, but, if someone wants to bet, he should, first of all, have fun, not destroy his family and destroy his life. It is very important to prevent any form of juvenile betting, and I am glad that the state is tightening the additional criteria there. All the serious companies in the world are absolutely introducing the most rigid measures to prevent a minor from ever accessing a toy shop. Unfortunately, since the black market was tremendously developed, those who existed in that gray zone allowed minors to bet. It's good that the state with these big fees and the prevention of unserious people, or thieves and real mobs, will now simply force them into legal flows. By doing so, as soon as they enter legal flows, they must tighten the measures to ban juvenile betting, otherwise they may lose their license. It's something that's very, very important. We must simply fight not to allow minors to have access to such objects. All in all, I really want to welcome this law, that is, what is now being introduced. This is the first time since the incredible chaos that occurred in 2011, when this law was passed and which has brought a lot of bad things, where it was essentially made for certain companies, which lobbyed to bring in certain members, in order to actually make them feel good. This is finally one introduction of order in this area, and I believe that in the future, we will no longer have strong inscriptions on the newspaper as minors bet, as minors gamble, as we have a huge number of gambling addicts and so on, precisely because the state, together with the processors, will work to prevent such things and this is an incredibly good and positive shift, so I want to support and certainly, in the day of the vote, since I have fought for such a thing for so many years, I will vote for this law. Thank you. `
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66977	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66978	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 350th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, for which they receive their salary neatly. So we have a kind of jubilee in that sense, and it will be a little more full-time that MPs of that part of the opposition do not keep coming and not doing the work that the citizens chose for. In this way, they show what their relationship to the function they perform is, what their relationship to the National Assembly is, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Some of them were here today in the National Assembly, though here in the hall, holding a press conference, for example. Bosko Obradovic, I guess today is the day when his duty is. They set it up, one day Bosko Obradović, and the next day Marinika Tepic, and the third day, the one Miroslav Alexic, and so on, but the topic is always the same and the essence is always the same, and it is the unfeeling repetition of the same structures, the same senseless accusations, the same theories of hatred, the same scenarios for films, and that is how, at any cost, and in any way, to bring someone from SNS into connection with some crime, to some corruption, etc. Well, every once in a while, they put in a new face, put in a new photo, put in a new name, like. today what they did, but it's essentially the same, and it's an unfeeling and continuous campaign against Alexander Vukic and the SNS official. It doesn't matter what's long since been denied by all possible state authorities and institutions, of all relevant institutions and domestic and foreign, it doesn't matter what in this way, these malicious allegations are directly threatened and violated by the Serbian defence industry, nothing matters to them, they're absolutely not interested in it. So it's only important that they tell it, so that after those with a "N1" they take it over and make a report about how "Today", "Time", "Nin" and the other media, or newspapers, have something to write about. All to cover up their affairs and to cover their connection with criminals, naked criminals and convicted criminals, so as not to talk about Bastac's machinations, so as not to talk about Bastac's affairs and the Bastac crime. And speaking of Bastache, yesterday... Milorad Mircic: Our Bastache. That's what you said it was your Bastache. Yesterday he was brought in for an informative interview and then a hack goes to the media why you brought him in for an informative interview. So we have a witness from his best man, the married godfather, who says this guy literally kidnapped him, bullied him all night, put bags on his head, beat him all night, because he didn't deliver him some envelope. And then they're surprised he was brought in for an informative conversation. Well, what makes it more logical after such a testimony than being brought into an informative conversation? That's the logical thing to do. I wonder why the D.A. hasn't responded before, why didn't they invite him to an information conversation earlier that same day? Also, in order not to write about Gilas' former brother-in-law, the one Dabovic, who was arrested with two and a half kilos of cocaine, that's this one, that's the picture, we showed her several times, we from the SNS. Here is Djilas and this Dabovic, hugged, then was his brother-in-law convicted, legally convicted, all that Bosko Obradovic wouldn't have to answer questions whether this Tocilo, who was arrested with 77 kilos of heroin, was it Boško Obradovica's godfather or a close friend of Boška Obradovic's? Has he financed the Alliance's activities for Serbia? Did he participate in financing these protests? These are all questions we need to get an answer to. Speaking of Bosko Obradovic, we have a new question for him. This image is in which Bosko Obradovic, together with what the media calls him, is controversial businessman Srdjan Adžmovic, are they at lunch, are they at a meeting, never mind, a question for Bosko Obradovic - what is he doing with Srdjan Adžovic? What kind of joint work do MPs Bosko Obradovic and Srdjan Adzmovic have? Well, when a journalist asks him, he refuses to answer those questions and any other affairs the public has long been waiting for, and Serbian citizens have the right to get answers to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66979	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66980	Here is the debate on very important laws, and one of these laws is the Public Procurement Act, in fact, as colleagues tried to present it, in 2012. It was due according to the SNS leaders at the time, to bring savings of at least 400m euros annually. In 2015, the law suffered changes and said that these changes are not, in fact, more significant than what fits European standards. In the past few months, however, the Director of the State Audit Office has said openly and publicly that it is early cancer in financial matters and in the case of malfeasance, it is the law on procurement and it has been established by locals, across the provinces, to the republican levels of government. That's what you have the testimony and the statement of the man who's responsible and who understands that. It would not be a miracle so much that it is still not claimed that public procurement is something that is transparent, and then, as you say, we Serbian radicals about the past, and you about your Gilas for whom you pay child support and our Bastac, whom you don't get out of your mouth, not to say that something has happened in recent years, which is that public procurement is least transparent. If you look at it at a lower level, financially, then you can see it through your fingers and say it -- it's exposed to the public, it's transparent, but when you look at bigger jobs, by financial scale, for God's sake, there's something that hasn't been represented so much before, for which reasons it doesn't matter, and these are direct contracts. Direct contracts exclude the opening of competitions, i.e. a tender for public procurement. It's in the law defined. Public procurement is not discussed when it comes to defence and security, civil defence, civil protection, threat prevention, etc. And when it comes to a creditor who prescribes conditions, even the conditions of public procurement. But what happened the last few days? You've been contradicting yourself for the last few days. Serbia is in charge, as we have been informed, of a credit line that will be in the function of building the Moravia Corridor. Serbia will benefit from the loan, and the direct agreement by the Serbian government, which was also verified by parliament, was made with Bechtel. You're yourself contradictory. That's a lot of supplies. That's a huge amount of money. How can you trust anything more, even well-meaning, when you deny yourself your own actions? We have a situation here that Serbia is in charge of 110 or 120km of highways, and in doing so, the direct conclusion of a contract with the US company excludes all possibilities when it comes to public procurement. You even brought here a Lex specialise for Bechtel, which will be the subject of analysis for many reasons for a long, long time. First, because it is the negation of laws, applicable laws in Serbia. Secondly, for the purpose of dealing with everyone, including the investigative authorities, is it possible that corruption, bribery and corruption are also involved, against whom you are fighting. You keep fighting by constantly having some extras for corruption. Here's what this is all about. This is about the next one. You and our claims, based on facts, deny by what you say - not the Serbian Radicals' administration, were not directly carried out by the contract and were not meant for Bechtel. Look, gentlemen, what did you bring into the Lex specialis law? You have introduced provisions that a company that deals with the construction of the highway, the so-called Moravia Corridor, should have references, that is, to Southeast Europe, has been doing business at a financial level so far, so you wrote only Bechtel who worked in Southeast Europe. Well, you wrote that this firm has some other references. Only Behtel has those references. You're wondering. You're just surprised that these domestic companies aren't... aside from this incoherent argument that we heard from the Prime Minister last night that domestic firms have too much work to do, so they can't get there, which we insisted on. It is even better to do domestic business, even if the deadlines are a little too long, it is not so much a pity that domestic companies will not receive references and cannot be competitive with other companies that compete for the construction of highways in Serbia on the basis of the credit debt of the same Serbia. That's the point. You can look for whatever models you want, as I see here you justify the existence of casinos, bookies, sports bookies. It's just to deny it. Instead of being against it, you say – the state must have an absolute monopoly when asking the bookies, casinos, sports bookies, you're the opposite. You want the winners to release the tax that is required to pay the state and praise how good it is to raise that level to 100,000 and not 11,000. It takes 1,000 dinars to be taxed. What are you talking about? The bookies, the casinos, that's where the money's being laundered. When it comes to companies, you here have a proposal that actions can be increased from three to five percent and you immediately cite an example – information technology. Wait, guys, did you all submit to this information technology? The Prime Minister says the future is in digitisation, IT technology and everything is subordinated to it. Well, don't say that. These are consulting services to foreign companies. Well, it's not the basic property of Serbia. By making a billion-dollar profit, imagine how much the owner earns profit based on his job in Serbia, but you don't think about it, you don't care. It's important to you that so much media at least you follow that trend of digitization. As far as public debt is concerned, you here have something the public needs to know. You're introducing foreign legal entities so they can trade with securities of value. You are announcing, gentlemen, that Serbia's future will be in that it will place securities of value and thus bring money, fill the budget and settle its obligations. It's out of your mind. We've got a big world crisis ahead of us, and that's what everybody's announcing, and you're playing with fire. Secondly, when it comes to raising credit by local self-government, what did you predict here? You predicted that this would be centralized, in the sense that the Ministry of Finance had insight into any potential credit arrangements for local self-government, which is good. It's good and it has to be introduced once. There must be that order. What's the big mistake? You say here in this provision of amendments to the law – if within 30 days the Ministry of Finance, or the Government does not give an answer to the local self-government, credit or arrangement is deemed not to be approved. Well, it's out of your mind. Well, I guess it takes 30 days, or as long as you've determined, to give a clear answer, and when it's said it can't be credited, to explain why this local self-government can't be credited. We're thinking about international loans here, not 30 days of silence, and that's understood, and no one knows why this local self-government. Then you have the town of Kragujevac. It's a bottomless hole. That Tom's punk, who cares who the Rasputin family is, it's just a waste of time. You charge the budget, he does whatever he wants. Discrimination is among local self-government. We agree that centralization, that control by the Ministry of Finance, is not so, not that the Kragujevac will continue to be privileged to us for unknown reasons. I guess you settle some of your bills, and that'll pay Serbia's budget, that'll be taxpayers. What do you care? Peace in the house is important. You keep that tumulac in a thousand squares, to flaunt with that artist of his, give the son a city. Is it small? You've created the new Nikolic Dynasty. We had Obrenovice, Karadjordjevic, and now we have Nikolic. Not even the Karadjordjevics live as distasteful as these. You must introduce order. It must be known, not on behalf of the citizens of Kragujevac, that you always cover yourself with the interests of the citizens of Kragujevac. What's very interesting is, when you look at chronologically, the most suggestions are in changes and additions to preventing money laundering, and money laundering is increasingly being laundered. Well, the European Union does, so I guess that's clear to you. Serbia and this region serve to launder money. Every big job is based on bribery, corruption, money laundering, and they bring it up in their reports, and they cite it as one of the major minuses when it comes to Serbia and financial business security in Serbia, which is present. There's a growing presence of corruption. Where did this corruption come from? From this European Union. We Serbian radicals cannot vote for such radical changes and additions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66981	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66982	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a bill whose application would increase the efficiency and economy of public procurement procedures. It is also an important segment to contribute to the fight against corruption in terms of clear procedures, in terms of strengthening supervision and penalisation systems, as well as strengthening the capacity of competent institutions. And here's because we've already been able to hear in the debate so far that the actual violation of the Public Procurement Act is related to Mark Bastac, he is one of the current officials who is in executive power, who is the president of a city municipality in Belgrade, the president of the Old Town municipality. And let's remind ourselves that the Office for Budgetary Inspection has come up with a big screw-up in their documentation (Alexander Seselj: Whose Old Town is it? We'll get to who it is. In fact, nearly a million dinars, the management of the city’s municipalities, spent on luxurious restaurants, expensive worships, and that without the public procurement process being carried out. Another example of suspicious acquisitions is the abuse of the property of the Milan Gale Muskatirović Sports Centre, when the pool's assets, which is not actually municipal property, were to be paid off to obtain a loan of 50 million dinars, which was due to be paid off. Instead, money was spent on something else, or it was rerouted to public procurement that was extremely suspicious. Bastic apparently continues through his boss, Dragan Gilas, and we have come to the point whose Bastic, at a time whose authorities also existed these laws, but he preferred it, I think of Dragan Dilas, was more pleased to break these laws than to adhere to them. Remember the purchase of underground containers, purchases that cost citizens six million euros? Of course, the realization of this project has never occurred, and the tender was subject to malfeasance, which led to the arrest of City Cleanness Director and his associates and individuals from some private companies, who had something to do with it and then there was a reasonable suspicion that the state was actually damaged by 169 million dinars. Furthermore, we are having an affair "Bus Plus" which has just been thrown out of competition by the Public Procurement Act of 50 companies. Belgrade won the most expensive, probably not the most beautiful, but Europe's most expensive 400m-euro bridge, however, in their time without the completed connections, it was later done. Not to mention a 10m-euro software programme that has never been used, not to mention their only promotions about some self-marketing services paid by citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens. Not to mention the affairs concerning "Luke Belgrade" or the reconstruction of boulevards and so on. All of this brought in both city manager and dozens of city officials, then Gilas' associates. All of these are bad examples, all of these are examples of violations of the Public Procurement Act that we have all witnessed and it is good that today we can discuss this bill that will mean, among other things, a more precise and stronger system of punishment for such proceedings. Serbia will, by adopting a set of economic and anti-corruption laws that are now ahead of us, bring the countries that have actually set the standards high in this area, and in this sense, I will support these proposals with the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66983	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66984	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that I needed how proud I was yesterday at the beginning of marking the beginning of the work of the Moravia Corridor, a modern traffic station, which will combine Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, of course, and which will allow my citizens from Vrnjaka Banja to reach Vrnjaka Banja within an hour and a half of the time. A traffic station, which I hope will improve our tourism, will help us to develop and be even more beautiful spa in Serbia and one of the most beautiful spas, as Mr. President Aleksandar Vukic said, one of the most beautiful, more beautiful than Baden-Baden, and as far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to say that the government has adopted a bill that will affect the development of the Republic of Serbia, which will simply affect the increase of the standard of living of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have a very important set of laws before us today, and in my discussion, I will refer to the proposal for a law on public procurement. This bill ensures consistency with EU legal acts and liquids, right in this area. The very aim of this law is to increase, of course, the transparency and flexibility of the public procurement process itself, i.e. to reduce that administrative burden by using electronic means, primarily. The application of the new Public Procurement Act itself will result in a significant reduction in administrative burden on the contracting authorities, as well as on the tenderers' side, and in particular a reduction in participation costs in public procurement procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have adequate administrative and professional capacity. I expect that this simplification process will increase the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises to participate and, of course, contribute to a higher level of competition itself. The bill also brings a new solution to the contract. The contract is awarded to the most economically favourable offer on the basis of the price, by application itself, i.e. access to and cost-effectiveness. The proposed solutions are primarily aimed at preventing corrupt behaviour, transparency and competitiveness. Public procurement itself is simply an area that may be exposed to such corrupt activities. For these very reasons, of course, the greatest accent in this bill was also put on the prevention of these corrupt activities and thus increasing transparency and care about the fact that economic operators, the public, media and other participants are informed of the possibility of awarding contracts, of course as well as of the bidders who receive the same contract. The proposal for a law on public procurement brings significant news, which is an electronic application for the protection of rights. The new public procurement portal will enable electronic procurement, which is a very big step forward and something that, in my opinion, will restore confidence in the public procurement process itself. The paper that is yet to be offered, i.e. the bill's proposal, is that there is no longer provision for a qualification procedure, or for a small value procedure, but whether the value of the procurement itself is the same procedure, whether large or small procurement is the same. All the changes mentioned, that is, what is changed in this bill, show that the accent has been thrown into transparency, on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and of course on the reduction of corrupt activity. It simply shows the position of this government, and the president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, shows the eradication of corruption, to show that there are no privileged ones, that there are no privileges. Of course, I also have to say that it's a total opposite of all those who were before us. They ran a slightly different policy. To them politics and political entry meant an increase in their own resources, their continents. Mr. Dragan Gilas is an obvious example and a man who has a series of affairs in his political biography, a series of unprofessionally implemented, so to speak, public procurements, and who have contributed to his incomes being increased even 100 times the moment he entered politics. Not even the other politicians who were before us are behind. There is also a reference to Marko Bastac, Miki Alexic of Triestenik, Vuk Jeremic. They all have a series of corrupt affairs behind them during their reign. I want to say, given that the talk of moving the election, that I was greatly impressed by Vuk Jeremic's statement, is now not even responding to that move. They would like to come to power somewhere, but also to come in such a way undemocratic. Everything they've been doing lately, they've been doing to cause some kind of reaction, or to cause some kind of disturbance. I hope that on October 5th there will be no more and that there will simply be no amnesia, that the citizens of Serbia know very well what Serbia was like, in what state people who were before us and what Serbia is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66985	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66986	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so this whole day's debate tells us that these are good legal proposals, because we haven't heard one more serious remark about the proposed legislative act. When we talk about the Law on Public Procurement, I can also point out what the chairman of the Finance Committee mentioned, the draft law in Zrenjanin was discussed by the Ministry of Finance and the DRI and the Finance Committee, and everything that was in the public debates and what the professional bodies had proposed, it was adopted, and it was a pleasure to me, because I was one of those people who voted here in 2012 for the bill proposed by the SNS. And it is true, in 2015, we had cosmetic changes and alignments with certain EU acts, as I do now, I must mention, because a lot is said, above all, in compliance with the EU regulation and meeting one of the conditions for closing Chapter 5, which means a lot to our country, as well as the realization of one of the main objectives, defined by the Public Procurement Development Strategy and for the period 2019/2023. years and more efficient public procurement procedures. In order not to repeat what my colleagues have said and not to spread the story further, I would say what I have repeatedly mentioned here, and these bill proposals say that this government, that this majority of the congregation, and above all, the man standing before all of us, Alexander Vukic, we have only one idea, a future, and we work for the future. We're not turning back. And when I say that, I'll mention yesterday and I'll mention tomorrow. Yesterday, and I am one of the MPs, as well as a colleague from the Moravia Corridor, yesterday was a significant day for central Serbia and Serbia in general. And all those who criticise, and among other things, the barren opposition of the Alliance for Serbia, who claims to be such a corridor, that we do not need such a highway, so I don't know what they have given us, what have they offered us, what have they done? It is necessary, too, that all those who made the statement yesterday, since they are dealing, first of all, with Twitter politics, Twitter and social networks, are seriously wrong, do not know the Serb voter, do not know the citizens of Serbia. This means a lot to Kruševec and Vrnjačka Banja and Trstenik and Kralje and Čačka and Belgrade, and to those who rely on that highway, so that's all that's there for Užic and Montenegro, it means a lot. It means a lot, I know, until the SNS came, and until President Alexander Vucic concreteized that idea, the King was a bottomless hole. So everything they had, they destroyed those yellow ants, ate it. They got rich, and the workers fell apart. We've closed down companies. Thank God, the King is opening up, that is, they are already partially open and open, because while they are working on building and working on providing these new production facilities, and Leona employs people and that Turkish employs people, not in full capacity, but it is already rich somewhere with about 20% to 30% of the capacity working. So, when they get on the highway, some of the others will come. I see objections - what will it do to the King, the King already has a way out of the highway. There isn't. In 2022, the king will have an exit from the Adriatic to "Miloso Velika", as it should, in full profile, and towards Belgrade, as well as a Kruševac towards the Belgrade-Nish highway. Why do I mention tomorrow? Tomorrow is finally something they've mentioned and called out for years, and nothing but the beautiful one, I can't make a mistake about the soul, the beautiful airport buildings, they haven't done. They built a building on the ice and it's costing for decades, while Alexander Vukic, SNS, our coalition partners and all these governments since 2012 have not rolled up their sleeves and worked for the future. Tomorrow will be the first flight between the airport "Ladjevci", not to mention between the Kings, after the Chacans will get angry, between the airport "shipmen" at Kraljev and Vienna, the first promotional flight, the first and every week two. Let's go. It will create, above all, a good business environment for all our businessmen so that they can make fast connections both east and west. There's going to be new plants, I hope, soon some cargo center next to that airport. Don't talk anymore. Roll up your sleeves, grab something in your hands and work, because a Serbian peasant, a citizen, recognizes someone who works hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66987	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66988	Thank you. A respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, what is expected to be implemented by the Law on Public Enterprises and Public Procurement is more effective in implementing public procurement procedures, reducing costs and administrative procedures, protecting small and medium-sized enterprises from negative consequences, centralising public procurement, as well as more effective protection of rights in the process itself. A special accent is being placed on the fight against corruption. The proposed solutions aim to prevent corrupt behaviour, improve competitiveness and fully open advertising in the public procurement process, and will point to business opportunities by new law for economic operators and allow the expansion of the contract base at local, regional, national and international level. There were a lot of cavities, like, the technical specification was to be adapted to a specific bidder or additional conditions should be prescribed which only certain tenderers may meet. One way was the mechanism of statement. When some of the conditions prove to be criminal and material responsibility for the bidder, false information could be provided, since the contracting authorities had no legal obligation to verify their trueness, especially if they had a prior agreement with the same bidder. This practice has contributed to the discrimination of operators on the market and has thus weakened confidence in the public procurement system, as the problem has become such that it is jeopardising the public finance system. Vendors, for the sake of getting a job, gave unreally low prices, because they know it's only important for the value of offers. In practice, it has often been shown that the initial cheapest offer ultimately is significantly more expensive due to inadequate material or services. I think the new Public Procurement Act solves that part of the problem, because the price is no longer the only criterion. The diagnosed way is to place a tender and a new proposal of the law on public procurement I hope it will be able to prevent the following: fictitious offers that create a false picture of competition, then, to prevent other forms of fitting, such as a deal between the bidders, where competitors submit offers or withdraw them before opening, so that the selected bidder, under quotes, gets a job. Then there's the market split, so they don't interfere with each other in the operating zones, whether they're certain companies, whether it's a region. The new bill envisions the introduction of electronic tenders, where much greater transparency is achieved, as the problem has become such that it threatens the system. We want to put our public finances on sound ground and not run away to deal with everything and anyone who threatens Serbia's progress. The new public procurement law provides another important paper - electronic application for protection of rights. The new public procurement portal will also enable electronic procurement, a major step forward to reduce barriers and access to public procurement, as well as a tool to reduce bureaucracy and corruption. We expect this increase in transparency and the possibility of insight into the overall public procurement process to restore confidence in public procurement procedures and allow for greater competition. This law reduces costs and simplified procedures, protects small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. They are given more equal status. There is a cure for corruption in public procurement, but its application is complex and requires the interaction of a large number of actors and constant adaptation. We need an effective judiciary and this law, as well as others who are on the agenda, are ways to prevent abuses in finance and make economic growth even bigger, hence the standard of living citizens. Transparency causes security, and security of higher investment, and it causes higher employment rates, and this increased consumption, and you can see how everything is connected. We are going one step at a time towards a clearly defined goal and a clearly paved road that has been paved by SNS and its president, Aleksandar Vukic. Alexander Vukic is a name that has become a synonym for success, restoration, prosperity and truly deserves applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66989	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66990	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, today I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken steps to improve its ability to fight terrorism, according to the latest State Department's report on terrorism for 2017 and 2018, presented in Washington. The report on Serbia said there were no terrorist attacks in our country during 2017 and 2018, and that the level of activity related to the recruitment of fighters for the Islamic state was low. The biggest threats to terrorism in Serbia remain the potential movement of money and weapons across our country's territory, the return of foreign terrorist fighters and radicalisation. The report states that the government in Belgrade has taken steps to improve its ability to fight terrorism by adopting a national strategy to prevent and respond to terrorism between 2017 and 2021, but also by continuing co-operation with international partners with special focus on law enforcement and security efforts. The Republic of Serbia has continued to use US government training to build its counterterrorism capabilities. When it comes to justice, law enforcement and border security, the report says it is necessary for Serbia to improve its capacity to implement the law, but that the country's progress in the area is stable. Serbia is involved in limited regional co-operation on anti-terrorist issues, and has co-operation with Interpol and Europe, bilateral co-operation programmes and in providing borders with Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania, and similar, border partnership with BiH and Croatia. Serbian agencies in this area are working routinely with Albania, but also with Macedonia and Montenegro. Terrorist tactics and technology use changed and developed during 2018. For example, greater use of commercial drones and encrypted communication, as well as knife attacks and ordinary cars, has been an additional challenge to the international community in the fight against terrorism. Terrorists continue to want to attack civil aviation, although in 2018 there were no such successful attacks. Thank God. In March, the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities entered into force in Serbia to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption. It is noted that the competent services have progressed, but they still needed improvement in their work. The report states that the vehicle and passenger control system at the border works, but that the centralisation of the data is slow. Serbia is legally prohibiting participation in armed conflicts in another country, and in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2178 and has not yet developed the necessary systems for data collection on passengers. The law on freezing property and preventing terrorism and the law on the prevention of money laundering that harmonize Serbian legislation with international standards has entered into force in Serbia. Serbia is no longer on the grey list of international bodies to prevent money laundering, which is good. In Serbia, the National Anti-Terrorism Prevention Strategy was in place between 2017 and 2021, and an Action Plan was developed to identify early factors leading to radicalisation, envisioning monitoring of threats on social networks and improving citizens' safety. No national anti-extremism coordinator has been appointed yet. The interior ministry of Serbia and the BIA co-operate with Interpol and Europol in the fight against terrorism. In 2018, the Ministry responded to 20 BIA requests. As a NATO programme member – Serbia's Partnership for Peace has assisted NATO training for Iraqi military medical personnel as part of the fight against terrorism. With Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Croatia and BiH, it is working to protect the borders. Serbian agencies co-operate with both Albania and Northern Macedonia. Now let's just remember in 2001, September 11th, it wasn't like it happened again when we all looked and we didn't believe it was true, unfortunately, it was true, when two planes, so to speak, jargonically, knocked in New York in buildings, one of the two tallest buildings in New York, and when 3,000 people died. I think there was a citizen of the Republic of Serbia among them, or it did not happen again. I am sure that such a thing will never happen again, and that is why we are today passing this Law on the ban on terrorist financing. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and newly appointed US Ambassador to Belgrade Anthony Godfrey expressed satisfaction with the co-operation of the MUP and US law enforcement agencies, especially in the field of fighting organised crime, human trafficking, terrorism and drug trafficking, and voiced hope that this co-operation would be announced and continued in the future. Ambassador Godfrey referred to joint co-operation in the fight against narcotics that yields concrete results, while commending the Serbian police's activities in the repression and drug confiscation. Let's just remember how many tons of drugs have been seized. Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Russian Secretary of the National Security Council Nikolaj Patrushev signed two agreements on co-operation in the field of combating terrorism and organised crime. Patrushev also stressed the importance of co-operation between the two countries on security and other areas related to Serbia's national interest. The Russian-Serbian summit plays a major role in strengthening relations. Finally, when I talk about the law, I can only say that the Republic of Serbia is in its own legislation, because it wants to be an EU accession country, and it implements full EU legislation, and this law needs to be dealt with for the simple reason that we have technical shortcomings. When we remove these technical shortcomings, I am sure that co-operation with all European and world countries will be much better, as far as terrorism is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66991	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66992	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us, among other things, a proposal for a law on public procurement that has arisen as a need to introduce solutions to domestic legislation in line with EU rules. The objective is a more transparent and flexible public procurement process, with a reduction in administrative burden and implementation of electronic communications. Of course, the application of this law will allow for the prevention of corruption during the planning of this procedure, during the conduct of the procedure itself, as well as the execution of the contract. The goal is to actually expose corruption in time, to remove the damage and to sanction the perpetrators and fines. The task is to ensure competitiveness and to prevent conflict of interest and precisely conflict of interest in trade in influence, corruption, marked the mandates of Alliance for Serbia leaders who today are only able to give criticism and, since they do not have any programme, to fabricate and place different affairs. Mostly, all those formerly known in politics, because they performed different functions, lost their citizens' trust in their local self-government, but some, such as Marko Bastic, continue to participate in corrupt affairs, illegal construction, citizens' racketeering and other corrupt affairs. Instead of saying, we congratulate you for doing something that we were not able to do, we congratulate you for starting the construction of the Moravia Corridor yesterday, congratulating all the citizens of Rasin County, all the citizens of Triestenik, which will pass through all these municipalities that are on the corridor track of this very important highway that is very important for all of Serbia, rather than saying – congratulations, we were able to hear the criticisms that are addressed to this highway yesterday. They rated him and characterised him as an unnecessary and expensive project. I recommend that they talk to citizens, especially citizens who live on this move, and better explain to them why in Triestenik was more important project "Aqua Park" than projects that would provide all citizens with healthy drinking water, why they did not take a step towards building the Moravian Corridor, they were only dealing with an assessment of which the orchard is more profitable for this highway to pass. Not to mention reports of the DRIs in all these municipalities, led by these Alliance for Serbia leaders, found a number of irregularities. In particular, I will read only one information from the 2014 report of DRI in the Municipality of Trstenik, where it is stated that, among other things, irregularities, that the municipality has made commitments, made payments without respect for legal procedures in the area of public procurement and only one example concerning the purchase of fuel for motor vehicles without the public procurement procedure implemented, without the pre-signed contract, without the indication of which it was fuelled, without indicating how many kilometers we passed. So, we want to stop this kind of behaviour by the president of the municipality, prevent, sanction them, make them responsible for the budget of all Serbian citizens and work in the citizens' interest, because they are obliged to report and act in the best interests of all citizens. The application of the Public Procurement Act will result in a reduction of administrative burden and simplification of procedures, as well as a reduction of the costs for the application itself and a participation in public procurement procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises, and this reduction of costs will be achieved by the objective, i.e. an increased number of offers and a higher level of competition, thus also more efficient and rational spending of budgetary resources. In addition, when it comes to meeting the criteria, those who report to the competition and participate in procedures such as business entities, they submit one document guaranteeing that they meet all the prescribed criteria which are stated and guarantee that there is no reason to be excluded from this procedure and only when the bidder that has the most economically profitable offer is chosen, he is obliged to deliver all the documentation accompanying that proves that he meets the criteria set out. What has also been assessed as very positive, which is the innovation partnership adopted by this new Public Procurement Act. If it is about the realisation of services and works that have not been available in the market until then, the promotion of knowledge and the introduction of new technologies through the integration of science and practical activity will also result in the development of innovative solutions, of course in line with the frameworks of estimated costs. In the spirit of digitisation, all communication is also foreseen by electronic means and certain steps have already been made in this field – electronic filling of participation applications and electronic catalogues. What is the key is eradicating corruption, legal protection in public procurement procedures and an effective legal mechanism and what is wanted to achieve is actually legal certainty, that even in this stable system, bidders have confidence in the system itself and in the public procurement process and that a special accent is placed on preventive action. Given everything mentioned in the voting day, I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66993	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66994	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to say a few words today about the proposal for a law on public procurement. Namely, the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted on 6.1.2013, was changed twice in 2015 so that it was no longer rational to amend and supplement the law, but it was necessary to access the construction of a new public procurement law which certainly has a large number of newspapers and which introduces all new solutions from the new directives. It is important to stress that the provisions of the new directives aim at increasing transparency and flexibility of public procurement procedures, reducing the administrative burden by using electronic means and by proving the criteria for the quality choice of the economic operator. Therefore, the adoption of this Public Procurement Act will introduce a new public procurement portal that will enable public procurement procedures to be implemented by electronic means. This means that the communication and exchange of data in the procurement process, including the submission of tenders, will take place by electronic means. It has also been defined that the opening of tenders will also be made by electronic means, which will certainly contribute to increasing the confidence of operators in the system, resulting in an increase in competition in public procurement procedures. This bill also provides shorter deadlines for certain public procurement procedures in the field of health and social protection and culture. Therefore, we can say that the public procurement of social and other special services involving services, as I have already said, in the area of health and social protection, as well as culture, will be carried out under a special softer regime. The paper is also intended to introduce new criteria for the award of contracts in the procurement process, so that contracts on public procurement will be awarded to the most economically favourable offer determined on the basis of price or cost or price/quality ratios, i.e. costs and quality. There have been a number of reasons to pass this law, but the main reason for all the laws and regulations is for the citizens of Serbia to be better, safer and more prosperous because when the SNS came to power we found a state that was all but unfairly arranged. We found a wasteland and poverty at every step, but it had to be because it was known that in DS there were no interests of citizens, but everything that was done was only done if Gilas and his associates had financial or other benefits. Slowly, but surely President Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia return institutions and systems to the right place because they have been broken down by Democrats to nonsense. The adoption and application of this law definitely enables the development of a modern and efficient public procurement system through four specific objectives – an increase in the efficiency and economy of public procurement procedures through the introduction of mandatory electronic communications in public procurement procedures, strengthening competition in the public procurement market through simplification of public procurement procedures and reducing the cost of preparation of offers, resulting in an increase in the interest of business operators, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, a reduction of the risk of irregularities in the public procurement system and, above all, by strengthening the legal framework, by improving the coordination and co-operation of competent institutions and strengthening their administrative capacities and promoting and promoting the environmental and social aspects in public procurement and innovation. It is definitely that the proposed solutions have a direct and positive effect on all entities that are obliged to apply this law as far as contracting authorities are concerned, i.e. public sector and economic operators, economy. Once again, I will stress that the positive impact of the view is primarily reflected in the more efficient implementation of public procurement procedures, cheaper procedures, less administration and more effective protection of public procurement procedures. Given all the positive effects that should arise after the adoption of the laws that I have spoken and pointed to, I have opinions, as well as an advanced party, that this law should be passed, and the SNS will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66995	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66996	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. At first, I would like to point out that public procurement is of great importance in modern society and is a source of great public attention, which is why many countries in the world are constantly making great efforts to improve existing procurement systems, as this enables the realisation of strategic objectives, such as economic development and economic growth, employment and social protection, improving living and working conditions, encouraging foreign investment, etc. What is important is the well-organised public procurement system and the fact that the participation of public procurement in GDP in 2017 was 7.68% according to the Annual Report of the Public Procurement Administration, while in 2018 a slight increase of 7.98% was recorded. Also, the efficiency of public procurement has a direct impact on other public policies, such as fiscal discipline, the modernisation of public administration, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation, ecological and social sustainable growth, the fight against corruption and others. Starting from this, the Republic of Serbia is determined to establish a modern system of public procurement, and in this respect a legal framework has been established through the adoption of the most significant anti-corruption law, the Public Procurement Act 2013, as well as many sublegal acts adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Public Procurement Authority. The set-up of the legislative framework is in line with the public procurement development strategy for 2014/2018. the year, and it is largely in line with EU legislation. Based on the analysis so far, the application of relevant rules can be stated by the general finding that significant progress has been made in the functioning of a single and modern public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia. The main indicator of progress made in this area is the opening of negotiations with the EU in Chapter 5 - Public procurement in December 2016. The opening of negotiations has identified a high level of compliance with the legal course of the EU, the existence of an institutional framework and mechanisms implemented, but, of course, the priority remains to close this chapter, followed by the implementation of certain criteria. The current application of the current law has produced a number of positive effects on the public procurement system, among which there is a particular need to point out – an increase in transparency by publishing a large number of information on the portal, an increase in competition resulting from a reduction in the share of the negotiation procedures. However, like any system, this system is not perfect, and certain negative phenomena, such as plans that are not realistic enough, are also needed to redefine certain provisions in order to be clarified and allow for their real application in practice. All of this required the adoption of a new law to address the perceived shortcomings, to ensure compliance with EU legislation, to regulate the relation process of public procurement entities to principles of economic and efficiency, to ensure competition and to prohibit discrimination, and to increase transparency and competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, a detailed analysis of the proposed law shows a number of newspapers compared to the existing law and achieves a number of objectives that will positively reflect all entities that are obliged to apply the law. In this regard, I point out only some of them, with a slightly longer view of the legal protection system. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed law is a further alignment with EU legislation, i.e. new directives that have not been implemented in the current law. The new legislative solutions will result in a reduction and simplification of public procurement procedures, as well as a reduction in participation costs, which will positively reflect small and medium-sized enterprises which most often do not have large professional and administrative capacities. Also, one of the important newspapers is a statement of compliance with the criteria for qualitative choice serving as a preliminary document, instead of numerous certificates and copies issued by the competent authorities. It is a standard form that all bidders apply, while at the end of the procedure only the bidder selected will be obliged to present the accompanying documentation with evidence. In the proposed law, we also have a new solution relating to the award of the contract, which is the most economically favourable offer based on the price or cost of applying access to cost-effectiveness or price-quality ratios. It should also be pointed out that the proposed legislative solutions do not provide for a qualification procedure, as well as a low-value public procurement process. The same procurement procedures will apply regardless of the value of the purchase. All communication in the public procurement process will be made through electronic means on the public procurement portal, another step towards compliance with the new EU directives. In particular, qualitative changes have been made in the legal protection system in order to ensure an efficient legal mechanism for all entities involved in the procurement process. In that sense, I point out that the only legal means in the legal protection system is the claim for the protection of rights. The application may be submitted throughout the procurement procedure and no later than 10 days from the day of publication on the decision-making portal, ending the procedure. The request shall be submitted to the contracting authority who has the possibility to decide for himself on the request for a solution, thereby removing certain failures and deficiencies. If it does not do so on the request, in addition to this internal legal protection, there is external protection where the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures decides on the request. The decisions of these authorities may be brought against the administrative court, which challenges the legality of the decision. With regard to this single remedy, it should be pointed out that the same can be declared by the bidder to whom the procurement contract has been awarded, and this means of law in the public interest can also be submitted by the Public Procurement Office, the DRI and the Public Advocate. These quality solutions contained in the bill will certainly contribute to the realization of much of the defined activities in this area, so I propose that we give full support to the same as any other proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66997	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66998	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with my associates, I will talk today about amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Although the amendments and additions to this law are in line with the international recommendations we have received, I believe they are of great importance to the ratings that Serbia has gained among other countries. In assessing the effectiveness of a single state system, the international organisation of the FATF prescribes in its recommendations clear criteria that a country should meet to demonstrate efficiency in the system to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. At a session held on 31 December 2014, Serbia adopted a National Strategy to fight money laundering and terrorist financing. However, Serbia was placed on the list of risky countries in February 2018 in a society of countries such as Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Syria. That is why, over the past year, large-scale legislative activity has been implemented in Serbia and great efforts have been made to improve the application of the rules in practice and the co-operation of all participants in the system to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Reforms have been carried out at the institutional level and a new institution has been formed, such as the Games Authority. As a result of activities implementing the plan since June this year, it has been announced that Serbia is no longer on the grey list of states with strategic shortcomings in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. In order to counter terrorism and combat money laundering, it is also important to detect and cut money flows through the improvement of the existing public surveillance and control system. Terrorist organisations also earn money from drug trafficking or people, and in their ranks most often have experts in new communication technologies for further networking and recruitment of new members. So I would like to point out that the huge role of the Ministry of the Interior is to prevent and detect these actions and to congratulate you on a series of actions in which you have helped detect criminal networks. At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, as part of the anti-terrorism service, established the Department for Preventing the Abuse of Public Sources and the Internet, which allowed the conduct of the Line Investigation, with the aim of providing evidence for the purposes of criminal prosecution of the perpetrators of this crime. Thanks to intensive controls and the work of the MUP, more than 10 tonnes of drugs have been seized in Serbia over the past two years, only in one action jointly conducted by Serbian, Spanish and British police in the Atlantic Ocean near the Azur Islands, where three Serbian citizens were arrested and 800kg of cocaine was seized, worth 50m euros. In an international action launched in Belgium, football coaches, managers, judges were arrested. At six locations in Belgrade and Nis, police seized 800,000 euros, suspected of stemming from money laundering from embezzlement with transfers of football players to Belgium. Also, very important work and work results from the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Ministry of Finance, which in its 2018 report cited trends and challenges in the fight against money laundering, including: investment of cash in construction and car trade; business through non-resident accounts, tax evasion and crypts. When it comes to money laundering and crime, I recently talked about it, but I have to remind the citizens of Serbia that one of the leaders in these actions is just one of the leading to so-called. The Alliance for Serbia, Vuk Jeremic, damaged citizens of the Republic of Serbia for five years in the Serbian government by 11m euros in fraud contracts with businesses in Serbia and lobbyist contracts with US companies. He's involved in international corruption and crime and the humiliation of our country. And over 7.5m euros were paid for his consulting firm's last election campaign. We must not forget that Gilas is also involved in the theft of tens of millions of euros, for which Serbia's public service is damaged and under investigation. Money laundering and crime were committed in the purchase of trams, buses. 200 buses were bought, 150,000 euros were stolen per bus. Gilas's Serbian firms had an annual income of over 80m euros. Half a million Serbian citizens are out of work, GDP was minus 3.1 and public debt is almost 80%. I listed all of this to you precisely because there was no surveillance, warning and notification by the authorities of the identified crime. Today, however, we have Serbian President Alexander Vukic, who represents our country in the best possible way in the world, so he has raised our reputation and there are more investors who see an ambience favourable to investment in our country. We have the government, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is seriously planning and planning and building better and better-looking Serbia in the long term. This government has done ten times as much as others. It's open to thousands of new jobs. Public debt has fallen to 51% and a further drop is expected. Pensions and wages are increasing and there is improvement and progress in every sphere of society. I congratulate you on the selfless effort and the pawning and invite colleagues and colleagues to support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u66999	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67000	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the finance ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are discussing in principle very important laws, a set of laws that are important on the economic side, and also on the anti-corruption side. I will focus my exposure on the proposal for a law on public procurement. At the very beginning, I would point out that there are a number of reasons for the adoption of such a bill, but they are actually the most important increase in the efficiency of the public procurement process, the better visibility of the participants in the procurement process. Also, the level of competitiveness is increasing. By adopting this bill, we will also bring the legislative frameworks in the field of public procurement into line with EU rules. We will also respect the legislative frameworks when it comes to the closure of Chapter 5, which also concerns public procurement procedures. By realising this law, by adopting this bill, we will also respect the Sustainable Development Strategy when it comes to public procurement from 2019 to 2023. Also, this bill also allows us to protect rights, more effectively than it has ever been, in public procurement procedures, and also enables and encourages participation of both medium and small enterprises in public procurement procedures, which is one of the main reasons for adopting such a bill. The most important solutions proposed by law are the new public procurement portal. I would certainly commend this solution introduced by this bill, because all offers in this way become absolutely visible. This portal, a new portal of public procurement, allows for the implementation of public procurement procedures by electronic means, which means that all communication will in fact be by electronic means, as well as the exchange of data in public procurement procedures, and the submission of tenders will also be made by electronic means, which directly affects the increase of transparency in the public procurement process itself. On the other hand, the opening of an offer, which will also be made by electronic means, will allow us to increase confidence in the process itself, conduct public procurement procedures and increase competition levels, as we will call on both small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in public procurement procedures. The bill also introduces new types of public procurement and conditions for their implementation. I would like to point out once again that they are absolutely in line with EU rules. Also, a new kind of public procurement process is being introduced, and this is an innovation partnership. Public procurement of social and other specific services, such as services in the areas of health institutions, as well as in social protection institutions, and when it comes to culture, will be carried out under a milder regime, a milder form, or a shorter duration of the procurement process. New criteria for the award of contracts in the procurement process are also introduced, so that contracts in this procedure will be awarded to the most favourable offer, which is determined on the basis of the price ratio, i.e. on the basis of the price or cost and price ratios - quality, i.e. cost - quality, and thus directly affecting the increase in quality and goods and services and works. The bill clearly sets out the conditions for amending the contract in public procurement procedures, as well as the conditions for termination of the contract, and the supervision of the execution of the public procurement contract will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance, while the infringements, if, of course, prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, will be the jurisdiction of infringement courts. This bill is an absolutely regulated area of protection of rights in public procurement procedures and provides for solutions that will make the procurement process effective. The amount of administrative fees, when applying for the protection of rights, is also reduced, so that the method of proving compliance with the criteria for selecting the economic operator is absolutely simplified. The bill, in addition to contributing to better efficiency and increasing the efficiency of the process itself, also brings us a reduction in the costs of administrative burdens on economic operators when preparing the offer itself. The economic operators participating in the procurement process will be quite sufficient to fill out a statement in the standard form and will confirm that they meet the conditions for participation in the public procurement process itself and that there are no legal reasons for exclusion from the procurement procedure. This is also very important for small and medium-sized enterprises, because this will allow them to participate in the procurement process, and we will also increase confidence in the public procurement process itself. In the end, I would definitely recapture and we can all conclude together that this bill will certainly contribute to better transparency, better efficiency, reduction of administrative burdens for both the bidder and the client. It will also reduce costs in the process itself, simpler procedures, lower costs and increase the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises to participate and thus increase competitiveness. The bill no longer overlooks the public purchases of small values, now the procedure is absolutely equally for large and small values, only the length of the delivery procedure itself, i.e. the deadlines for supplying offers and applications for participation are longer. I would certainly like to stress in the end that the special accent of this bill has been put to the fight against corruption, as it will reduce the possibility of manipulation with documents. It's all transparent now, and it's going to be easier and you're going to check all the documentation in the tenders. For all I have stated, I will certainly support this bill, as well as the other laws that are in principle in the debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67001	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67002	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, respected ministers, respected MPs, of course I will talk today about the draft law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, as I come from a city that is the centre of the tobacco industry. The main objective of this law is: to create conditions for improving the quality of the provision of public services, improving business conditions for operators by reducing administrative burdens in terms of reducing the time limit for resolving the orderly requirement to optimise the procedure for adopting a decision on the issue and renewal of a license to carry out trade in small tobacco products. The register of retailers of small tobacco products lists 20,517 operators operating on the basis of whose two-year period of validity. In 2018, the Ministry of Finance just issued 12,032 permits for retail trade in small tobacco products. Since he's a 65-year-old. The law allows one economic operator to be entered in several registers, in this way the subject who paid a fee when entering one of the registers when entering another register does not pay a registration fee if the amount of the fee paid is equal or greater. He specifically pointed them to a very important fact about tobacco processors, which are conditions. Article 17(4) states that it has its own laboratory or concluded a contract with an accredited domestic or foreign laboratory to analyse and determine the quality of tobacco. This way takes care of the quality of tobacco, although smoking is dangerous to health and is not recommended. When we talk about tobacco, I can't help but look back at the robbery privatisation of the tobacco industry in Nis. The older name for the "Duvanical Nis" industry before World War II was a deficient term of monopoly, which will say that it is a market situation in which there is only one seller on the side of the offer which is able to influence price formation, and on the side of demand there are a lot of customers without the possibility and choice of another supplier and the impact on the price. Such a firm was signed by Privatisation Agency director Mirko Cvetkovic in September 2013, and Europe's Philip Morris President Jean-Claude Kun signed a 66.45% social capital contract in Belgrade. On behalf of the government, initialling was attended by Zoran Zivkovic, as prime minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, privatisation minister and Bozidar Djelic, finance minister with the presence of US Ambassador William Montgomery. According to the contract, Philip Morris was supposed to pay 387m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget, invest in the 64.85m-euro factory, and provide 59.11m euros for the social programme. The actual value of the Danube Nis industry at the time of privatisation was 1.1 billion euros, not 387m euros. Compensation to workers was then paid out of the current inflow and profit. The factory in Nis in the early 1990s hired over 3,500 workers, contracted co-operation with several tens of thousands of individual companies that provided 70% of the raw materials. There were 20,000 families living from DIN. Now around 700 workers work in the factory, the company failed to meet the promise made to the Privatisation Agency for the construction of the "Milka" and "Miller" beer factory in the "Duvanska Industry Nis" circle. The sale contract was declared a state secret because it stated that five years should not specify details. First of all, how much did the consulting service of Bozidar Djelic cost? Secondly, what part of Zoran Zivkovic is there? Because, as I say actor Bogdan Diklic in the role of Mirko in the film "The Marathons run in an honorable circle" during the opening of the Pantelia will – what is my share? That's what I'm asking myself. But I know that the average profit in Nis at the time of Zoran Zivkovic was 17,000 dinars, and now the minimum profit in Serbia is not average, but minimum, 30,022 dinars. So much for privatising the "Duvanska Industry Nis" in which then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic played the leading role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67003	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67004	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, today when we are discussing in a joint principled search of 12 laws, i.e. The law on additions to existing laws, I will not speak of them individually, I can only say that all the proposals are good, that I will certainly vote for them and I think it is the right time to pass those laws. I'll say something, first of all, about the conditions in which we discuss and in which we bring these laws. Let's remind ourselves of what was going on. Before, about, or we could say exactly one year, November 6, 2018, Ramush Haradinaj introduced a 10% fee on Serbian goods. Already on November 21st, he raises that fee to 100%, and in the media, he claims to bring down Alexander Vukic. Synchronized by the Pristina authorities' moves in Belgrade, part of the opposition led by today's evil leaders of the Alliance for Serbia are on the offensive with the goal of destabilising Serbia's situation synchronised. About a year ago, on 15 December 2018, a part of the opposition hidden behind the so-called "One out of five million" moves with demonstrations in terms of walking Belgrade's streets, and they haven't gone too far since the use of force. Five days later, that part of the opposition leaves the opposition behind the "One of Five Million" movement, leaves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and does not appear at plenary sessions, but only at the Assembly's register, press conferences and, of course, does not miss a single trip abroad, giving likely its unquestionable contribution to parliamentary tourism. In the past year, the leaders of the opposition's work gathered around Dragan Gilas, in the so-called Alliance for Serbia, have synchronously acted with leaders from Pristina, Haradinaj and Thaci to destabilise Belgrade and bring down Aleksandr Vukic. They neither destabilised Belgrade nor Serbia, nor brought down Vukic, and they won't, thank God. Serbia is stronger and more stable today, and Aleksandar Vukic in this case, as usual, came out as a winner, even stronger and stronger. Not only have new kilometres of highways, new corridors bringing together hundreds of thousands and millions of people, new factories and new investments, thousands of new jobs, new schools and hospitals, infrastructures in cities and villages, higher wages and pensions, new modern laws and regulations in line with EU legislation, won only the better position of the Republic of Serbia in the international community, the greater reputation of Serbia both in the east and in the north and in the south, democracy won. The school of democracy led by Alexander Vukic continued to win. They defeated the lessons of democracy that he gave all of us, and especially those who had been hiding behind the words of democracy for years, called their own party, while at the same time giving birth to the people, they were encumbered in robbery and crime. Today, when they make new affairs and lies, every day a few, they forget that people don't forget. He doesn't forget who robbed us or who led us almost to bankruptcy as a state. He does not forget the people of tens of thousands of destroyed jobs in their time, or closed factories, broken institutions, corrupt judiciary, impoverished schooling, broken health care, the army in patchages, and overindulged weapons. Well, the people don't forget. Now, when that part of the opposition, Haradinaj and Thaci's Belgrade counterparts gather together to block institutions, such as the blockade of the RTS Public Service, it is right that President Vukic, who says we are not worried, that this group can't do anything, we move on, because Serbia is a democratic state. Now, that beats them. They were defeated by democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67005	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67006	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the fight against corruption, or zero tolerance to corruption, is part of the Serbian Progressive Party programme and part of what we presented as our priority in 2012. The set of all these laws has one common feature, and that's that anti-corruption element. Efficient control of the spending of public funds and how important it is, since effective control of the spending of public funds is the means of all citizens, and for this reason it is necessary for this control of the spending of funds to be transparent, be effective and comply with legal legislation, i.e. with the laws adopted. In that sense, I would like to stress that the Public Procurement Act, which is on the agenda today, has been brought in a transparent way, which means that it has been transparently introduced and presented on round tables, that all interested parties have participated in its adoption, that it systematically regulates the area of public procurement. By 2012, the late Verica Barac pointed to the systematic robbery of the yellow tycoon company for 12 years, and also pointed out that funds from public procurement are being poured into private pockets. According to estimates, by 2012, during the rule of the yellow tycoon company headed by Dragan Gilas, every quarter of public procurement ends in private pockets, and annually, on the basis of a commission and on the basis of illegal money spills, it was about a billion euros. These yellow robbers today would seem to return to power, but, of course, they're not interested in citizens, they're only interested in their private pockets, because Dragan Gilas, at the time of government, was rich by 619m euros, net income 105m. That movie won't look anymore, because citizens don't trust robbers, citizens don't trust bullys, citizens don't trust those who want to call for murder, hang, rape. Citizens believe in work, order and responsibility. Citizens believe in Alexander Vukic's politics. Dragan Gilas, of course, bought software through public procurement and gave 10m euros for it. Of course, it is not a problem that he made the purchase of software, although I do not know what process he obtained it in, the problem is that this software was meant to connect all city institutions to make financial monitoring of money. The software has never been put into operation, and for it the citizens of Belgrade gave 10m euros. That's how the financial care of Dragan Gilas ran it. So, just so you don't see what's being stolen, it's not available and you don't see what's being stolen. But the truth comes out eventually. What I have to say for this Public Procurement Act is one newspaper, and it refers directly to the reduction of these administrative procedures which are and how significant they are from the aspect of small and medium-sized businesses participating in public procurement procedures, which is a statement of compliance with the conditions with which they compete, make an offer for public procurement, which is preliminary evidence. So, they don't have to report for a contest to collect all those documents, go from counter to counter or otherwise, but in the final phase, when the artist is selected, or the client then all those documents that are necessary are delivered. The law is also important and introduces a paper relating to public procurement, which concerns innovation partnerships. Innovative technologies are very important from the aspect of knowledge, from the aspect of experience, from the aspect of integration with the real sector. Serbia is a country that is progressing in both technological terms year by year and this partnership relating to innovative technologies is also important and we hope that it will contribute to sustainable development and accelerated economic growth, and all of this has a reduction in poverty. Also, as far as this law is concerned, I would like to highlight another aspect, which is precisely the tax on legal protection of the bidders. In fact, it's exactly what we're supposed to do. The highest jurisdiction has the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights, but what I want to say is that there can be an administrative dispute. Also, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements is directly linked to this law, as it predicts that one who has been granted a ban on participation in public procurement cannot participate in these competitions in time to two years. Since all these laws are anti-corruption, the Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67007	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67008	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, when we talk about public debt, is always important to highlight the success of Serbia in the past few years, especially when we consider that our public debt until just a few years ago was over 70% of GDP with a constant trend of growth, and that today it is reduced to some 50% of GDP with a constant tendency to fall. Considering that the leading international financial institutions are predicting Serbia for the next few years GDP growth, which will be above 4%, this tells us that we can expect such trends in some future period, which is very important for the country's financial stability. When it comes to these results, there are always those who will try to humiliate them by spraying information in different ways, so when we talk about public debt, our political opponents always say that it has actually increased and always express it in absolute figures, although no one in the world is seriously expressing public debt in absolute figures, but exclusively in its share of GDP. We could also talk about who left a huge budget deficit of over 1.5 billion euros in 2012 and many expensive interest loans from 6% to 8%. When we talk about what Serbia is taking credit for today, there is one big difference in how we do not take credits to finance salaries and pensions, to finance daily liquidity, but to finance many development projects, many highways, everything that raises our economy and which allows us to serve these loans later. Just thanks to such a policy, we open a section of the highway from Surcin to Obrenovac on Wednesday, making the Cačak-Belgrade highway complete. As you know, yesterday the construction of the Moravia Corridor began, and we could immediately see that some of our political opponents opposed it, say it was expensive and unnecessary. Well, for Dragan Gilas, it is expensive and unnecessary to single out 750m euros for the Moravia Corridor, which means life for central Serbia, for more than half a million people, and it was not much to single out over 400m euros for the Adi Bridge with access to traffic, which somewhere says they do not realize that it is not only Belgrade Serbia and that there are some other parts of the country that need development and that need investment and investment. In fact, by building these corridors and building highways, we correct a major historical injustice that has been done to central Serbia in the last half century, because this part of Serbia for various, most often political reasons, has been very often ignored and neglected in terms of investment. Now that's no longer the case. For example, tomorrow at 7:55 p.m., the first plane will take off from Brodjevac to Vienna, after which, for many other European destinations. In particular, this will mean a great deal to our economy when another new runway is completed that will allow the development of the traffic cargo. It will be very important for our tourist destinations, such as Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, Ovčar Banja and many others, as it will be easier to reach foreign tourists. So these are investments, thanks to which the economy in central and western Serbia literally breathed. They also represent only a small part of the National Investment Plan, which Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic will present on December 28th, which is called – Serbia 2025. So, I want to congratulate this opportunity once again on all citizens of Cacack and Central Serbia to complete the construction of the Belgrade-Cacchak highway, to congratulate them on the start of the construction of the Moravian Corridor, the first flight at the airport in Lađevci, but also to take advantage of the opportunity and to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which after opening the Start-Tap Centre in Cačka has singled out an additional nearly three million euros to build a scientific and technological park, which will be the fourth centre in Serbia after Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, which is very important for us, because it will provide a good connection between higher education institutions in our city and economy, because in this way we will be able to stimulate young talents to be creative, innovative, to move their businesses, to provide a job for themselves, for their family or friends, or to provide jobs that will be paid above average, which will enable them to stay in their city. Many tell us – and why do you do all this when our young ones leave anyway? Well, now, if you had built all these corridors, airports, factories and industrial zones 10, 15 or 20 years ago, we might not have had a situation today for young people to go so far, but since you didn't do it, we'll do it for some other generations that are just coming. When they tell us to open the freeway now because we have the election in April, so it's a campaign, so we're not gonna use that highway until April, so we're gonna take it somewhere after that. He will serve Serbian citizens for decades to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67009	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67010	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens, the aim of all these legislative proposals that we are talking about today could be divided somehow, in me, into two parts, into that kind of technical part, which is related to harmonising legal standards with the legal assets of the developed part of the world and the classification of Serbia in a group of countries that guarantee certain legal norms and legal solutions to the full legal certainty of those who deal with different activities in Serbia and who, on the other hand, guarantee complete uncertainty to those who deal with certain legal, moral and otherwise unacceptable things both in Serbia and in the second and most important developed part of the world. The second part, i.e. the second goal that could be found somewhere as something that is the main part of these legal proposals, is what concerns both political and somehow to say Serbia's economic rating and its status in the world at all. I think this very political and economic rating and Serbia's status may be the most important condition for society's progress in general. I am sure that, for a re, to say, the restoration and growth of that reputation, how political, economic and every other Serbia in the world is the most responsible birthor of this policy today, which returns Serbia to some successful pathways, is certainly the country's president. At the same time today, he is also the most important promoter and man who works most to develop this reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Now, what are the benefits of that policy? I can talk about a lot of benefits, as well as all my colleagues, but somehow these last days is the current one with regard to increasing the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, it is both the result of these and such legislative proposals that the government is sending to this respected home, and in particular, to say, synchronisation and the path of the synchronisation of monetary fiscal policy in Serbia as a whole. This will again mean better conditions, i.e. more favourable conditions for financing businesses, slightly more investment, more production, but if from the point of view of the average man and the average citizen in the Republic of Serbia, it will mean more work, more employees. I think that's the most important benefit that today's average citizen in the Republic of Serbia feels from all these jobs. This again means a round and an increase in economic growth, as we see significant global agencies project economic growth in Serbia for the next year to 4%. Compares for, we had, not so long ago, a decline of minus 3% in 2012. Now that you look at it this way, you realize that on one hand you have one serious piece of work, laws and jobs done by both the government and the president of the Republic on the one hand, and they are certainly on the trail of improvement and strengthening and the Serbian state, but if you will, the Serb people in the Balkans as a whole. What do you have on the other side? On the other hand, you have threats, hangers, snipers, incursions, violent incursions to institutions and everything called violence. We MPs of the SNS and how we know to choose between the two. We choose this first. We choose work and order in the Republic of Serbia, but we also choose these laws that you, as Government, send to this respected home. More important than that, people in Serbia choose the same thing. The people in Serbia will have a chance to show it again in the elections that are shortly ahead of us in the coming months. When I have already touched on this speech and our people in general in the Balkans and the entire Serbian Corps in the Balkans, I will take this opportunity to remind our colleagues, our friends, if you will, and our brothers in parliament in Podgorica, once again of the request and the wish that the president of the country has made in the past days, and as regards the Law on Freedom of Faith, which is now current in Montenegro, which the government has sent to the Montenegrin Parliament for adoption. We again ask them to, together with political representatives of the Serb people in Montenegro and the Serbian Orthodox Church, try to bring their views into line, and regarding the law, especially the part concerning the property of the SPC and all other religious communities in Montenegro. As our president said, the SPC is not only the refuge of that part of the people who are nationally pleading as Serbs in Montenegro, it is also the refuge of those who plead as Montenegrins, but very often some other confesions and some other national communities. Certainly not denying the Montenegrin state's right to make its own decisions, we again, together with our president, are giving them a request and an appeal to reconsider this bill again, to try to bring it into line with Serbian political representatives, with the SPC, so that we do not violate good relations between the Serbian-Montenegro state and all that through history has embellished Serbia-Montenegro's relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67011	Thank you. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67012	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, in the next few minutes of my presentation, I will seek to refer to the proposals of the laws that are in this first joint search and I will try not to mention what my colleagues considered to be the same. Therefore, my attention and focus were drawn to the law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on terms of settlement of obligations from commercial transactions. For what reason? First of all, it affects the quality of business. As far as the Business Society Act is concerned, it affects the way we have good practice in already developed market economies where companies have given their employees the opportunity to participate in the share of capital, or that has affected their efficiency in working. Thus, limited-responsibility companies allowed employees at the end of the financial year to be able to earn more money, thus contributing to competitiveness, the quality of the company's work. As for the second law on deadlines related to the settlement of commitments in economic transactions, and I consider it very good because transparency is firstly raised, i.e. we continue to digitise in the Republic of Serbia in such a way that all invoices that have arrived, not only invoices, but also any records are required to register and record in the Central Electronic Register, and they will therefore be considered as already due. This way we will reduce the possibility of corruption, but also the development of a gray economy. Just when we're talking about corruption, we're going to stop at the key thing, because it's only synonym for the yellow company, because that's the only way they've done business in the previous period. Now I have to tell you that this yellow coalition, of course, in the last period is constantly saying that we are only passing laws because the European Union has ordered us to do so, so gentlemen do not agree at all. We're obliged to change those laws, because you've made them in the first place because everything's changed and it's not what it's supposed to be. We must bring everything into the legal framework and there must be a restrictive respect for these laws, so that we do not enter the gray economy, so that corruption does not repeat itself and that we simply focus citizens' awareness on the right path. The train we're going to cannot possibly go along the rotten and broken tracks and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is the first to end corruption and said the economy must be on sound grounds. We did it. The Serbian Progressive Party turned the course of history, as Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy. Therefore, respected colleagues, I am not surprised at why the yellow company with its satellites, when I say that I mean Obradović, Zivkovic, I mean Jerkov, I mean Cobanov Tepic, I mean Aleksic, not in the Assembly. Well, of course not. They're not responsible for the adoption of laws like this, and they're not against their attitudes to come and challenge it. And that would be something that would be transparent if they didn't agree with the laws that need to be adopted. Since this is my first term when I came to the Assembly, colleagues who have been here long know it very well, what I have learned is that the MP has the right to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at any time of the day. One of our colleagues, Bosko Obradović, does it only at night, with flag masts trying to break the door or window. Don't do it with the phantom, I have to admit, the phantom serves them for other operations, when Gilas is headed into the Serbian Radio Television building, but then they don't have a flag mast tool, but that's why they have electric saws, so somewhere I'm interested in whether it's some kind of knight's competition between Obradovic and Gilas? However, at the end of the day, we conclude that the day after that operation, they come to the Grand Hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to hold a press conference, and I just don't know if they're boasting or justifying and wondering who? Perhaps the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who trusted them in the previous elections? I'm somewhere convinced it won't happen again. So I will make my conclusions with only one sentence, a people's sentence, which says that justice is slow, but it is available.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67013	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67014	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, on the agenda of today's session is a set of 12 laws that only seem to regulate different matter at first sight. However, through all these 12 laws, three goals are permeated that should be achieved when these laws start to apply. It is, above all, the development of the economy, the fight against crime and corruption, and also electronic communication, or electronic communication. When it comes to the development of the economy, this is mentioned, above all, in the Public Procurement Act, because it speaks of creating conditions for more efficient public procurement and increasing the competitiveness system, but what is very important is to encourage the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, in order for the economy and in this respect to develop in a wider direction in Serbia. The development of the economy is also mentioned in the Business Society Act, where employees are stimulated to become members of a company and to gain participation in the capital of companies at privileged prices, which has proved to be a good practice in developed Western social systems and in the US. The Customs Tariff Act prescribes increased production capacity engagement in domestic factories and an increase in the competitiveness of finished products. This here refers to tractors in domestic and world markets. There is also a tobacco law that improves the business environment in the business of retail tobacco products. When it comes to the goal of fighting crime and corruption, of course there is a Law on Public Procurement, of course there is a Law on Public Debt which predicts... Instead, when the ministry of finance's consent to borrow local self-government has been asked for an opinion earlier, and now the finance ministry's consent is required so that local self-government can be entrusted. There is also a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing that promotes the existing system of detection and prevention and complies with international standards, but also with several laws relating to this law on the prevention of money laundering and financing, such as the Law on Games on Happiness which regulates this area of gambling, and the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners and the Law on Mediating, Transport and Renting Real Estates, which seeks to prevent criminals from controlling real estate agents. The Law on Infringements introduces a new safeguard measure, which is the measure related to the new Public Procurement Act, which is also on the agenda today, which is the prohibition of participation in public procurement procedures. It is a temporary measure and can last for the longest two years and is being carried out since a judicial verdict has been handed down to punish the offence. The third objective - electronic communication, mentioned in the Public Procurement Act, where submission and opening of tenders in procedures are prescribed to take place by electronic means. The Law on time limits and the settlement of financial obligations in commercial transactions then refers to the registration of electronic invoices and to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. These three objectives, which pervade the 12 laws ahead of us - the development of the economy and the fight against crime and corruption and electronic communications, bring us closer to the EU and to more well-organised social systems. Also, these three objectives are in line with the objectives set by the Government in its 2017 programme, which are faster economic growth, increasing efficiency and providing public services and digitisation, which speaks of the consistency of both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly and the President of the State to make Serbia more beautiful, more decent, more pleasant and much better for life for the future. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67015	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67016	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to say tonight at the end of today's debate that this set of laws is in fact a continuation of fiscal synchronisation that is important for improving Serbia's economic environment, which is important for better credit rating Serbia, for opening new technological parks, for networking Serbia on highways. In a few days, a share opens from Surcin to Belgrade and connects with Cačka. We saw yesterday that a contract was signed for the construction of the Moravski Corridor and all this is important for reducing unemployment and for increasing and improving the economic environment in Serbia. As far as the new Public Procurement Act is concerned, I would like to say that this law is very important because of the efficient implementation of public procurement, and in general for the efficiency of public procurement, competition, transparency and efficiency of courts are key. The new Public Procurement Act should lead to further savings, a reduction in bureaucracy, to the elimination of the shortcomings observed by the still existing Public Procurement Act. It is a very important portal for public procurement to enable us to conduct the whole process electronically, it needs this whole process to increase citizens' trust and reduce corruption. The second law, which I would like to say briefly, is the bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. This is money that brings huge money to the state, and it's very important to be arranged. The objectives of the amending and supplementing laws on gambling are to create a legal framework for adequate control and preventive action to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing in the field of gambling. The second goal is to prevent persons who are associated with crime from owning or managing legal persons who stage gambling. I want to use the debate in this law to warn as a educator of a devastating problem that we are facing based on research by the Public Institute Batut, each of our third children in Serbia has been in contact with some form of gambling or gambling and you, as I said, are the results defeating. For this trend the increase in the number of adolescents who gamble is deserved and it is a line of gambling and the inability to exercise control in this way as these tickets are paid. The big problem so far is the fact that many casinos have opened near schools, parents do not know when the border is and when they should react when it comes to this problem. This is indeed an alarming moment to point to prevention when it comes to adolescents who are increasingly applying this vice and I hope that what I just said in some future period will be the subject of discussion in this high house. In the voting day, I will support all proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67017	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67018	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers and Associates as legislators at today's session, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, at the end of this principle debate, it is also my duty to address as rapporteur of the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Energy at this session because of the amendments and the addition of the three laws discussed by the Committee, which are of particular importance for further economic growth and the improvement of the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. To move forward, the proposed amendments and additions to the Business Society Act provide for certain changes. Why? Because long ago in the developed market economies of the United States or EU countries, the practice is to stimulate employees in a business society to do their jobs better by giving them the opportunity to become members of that society. In this way, employees are stimulated to do their jobs better, thereby increasing the value of the company's capital. In the future, when there is a sale of a company in which they are employed, they can make an additional significant profit by selling participation in capital at the market price they have acquired through options. This way of stimulation has proved particularly effective in the information technology industry, and on the other hand, these societies have a high potential for rapid growth. Given the significant growth in the information technology industry in the Republic of Serbia and the growing share that is taking place in GDP, exports and in general in the economy, there is a general interest in bringing about measures that encourage further growth in economic activity, especially in this industry. Companies, especially companies from the IT industry, also employ different consultants, mentors, business consultants and the like, who are not always employees of society. In addition, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, potential founders of a limited-responsibility society, have often established companies abroad so that they can use different opportunities to stimulate employees. This proposed change will no longer be necessary. The bill allows companies with limited liability to stimulate their employees, investors, consultants and other issuances of a financial instrument – the right to acquire shares, which gives the holders of this financial instrument the right to acquire a share in a company on a given day of maturity at a preferential price. For the purpose of issuing this financial instrument, a limited liability company shall educate the reserve of its own share as a share which the company shall without delay obtain from a member of the company, noting that a single member of a limited liability company may also acquire a reserved own share. Two more amendments, which is that this bill stipulates that employees of a limited liability society and a stock company participate in the distribution of profits, which so far has not been the case, and that the percentage of their own actions that the company can distribute to employees and members of the administration has increased from 3% to 5%. Furthermore, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners with the proposed amendments and additions is also improving the existing system of detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the harmonisation of domestic legislation with all international standards in this area, i.e. the competent authorities and organisations in respect of data recording control, liability for the truthfulness and accuracy of such data, and this proposed amendment foresees and provides supervisory and investigative powers for the submission of requests to initiate a misdemeanour procedure in the event of failure to act under the proposal. In the third proposal of the Transport Mediation Act, the Republic of Serbia should strengthen and supplement the provisions prohibiting persons convicted of certain criminal offences from establishing or controlling persons providing services subject to regulation of certain laws, thus also this matter in traffic intervention and immobilisation. In a second report by the Manival Committee for December 2018 on enhanced monitoring and technical compliance of the Republic of Serbia with FATF recommendations, technical shortcomings have been identified with regard to the active implementation of relevant FATF recommendations, including a concrete argument that no measures have been taken to prevent criminals from controlling real estate agents. The demand of an international organisation in this area is that, in a unique and uniform manner, as well as with the taxpayers under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, a standard is introduced, which is the basic objective of amending this law. Finally, these proposals should be adopted, should contribute to further improving the economic environment and economic growth and minimise the risk of business. The Committee will always support these solutions and for this reason I propose their adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67019	The word has a People's MP, Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67020	I thank the chairman. In the few minutes left, I want to make some conclusions that I believe, as we have today, that as the minister and I, as participants in this discussion, will have full consent, as the minister suggested, I just want to rely on what I've already said. We have a situation in the law of supplementing the Law on Business Society, which, as a paper in law, we want to unconditionally support. It's about a situation where a member of society or a founder of society, not to banalise the story, any of us, has its own company and that share that has in society presents to society. On the basis of this share, which now has the status of reserved own shares, the company will allow employees to gain certain opportunities, which is that employees also have a share in the company and make certain revenues. Now, if we have a situation where one company owner has given his share of the company, and there are only three employees or just a few employees, where the motivation of the owners of the company as founders, when it comes to one-member companies, is to enable them to acquire their own shares of employees or third parties, such as consultants or other third parties, so we call them. We can provide motivation, and I'm sure the minister will agree with me too, only if this whole package of laws, including this law, respected ministers, follows something that we have achieved as a continuity, which is economic growth. If we do not have economic growth and in this context do not stimulate companies, regardless of the status form of a limited liability society or other forms of organisation, then the practical application of this law will not have the effect that we want it to have. Only in a way that implies the motivation of the owners of companies to give benefits to employees through their own reserved shares, then we will have full equality, not only to companies in the IT sector, or technology, but to all others. Why am I saying this? Because the reserved share isn't an obligation. That's right. Whether it is the rightful owner of the company to benefit or not depends on his personal interest depends on whether he will be motivated to make the right use of his employees, in a way, to provide additional income opportunities. Of course, in no case do we feel that this should be a commitment and should not be a obligation, but if it is a right then it implies discretion of one who decides on that right, and that discretion allows and that they can and cannot and must not. Therefore, what the SPS and SPS MPs as a coalition partner thinks is very good, it is very good that we have one legal solution that we have to support, which is this law and I don't think we will have an absolute single dilemma when it comes to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, that we all contribute to this government continuing the path that implies a continuation of economic growth, a single economic environment in which companies, i.e. economic societies in any form of organisation, will have the opportunity to employ as many persons as possible, to make as many persons available as possible, to achieve such income opportunities, to talk about gross incomes, that the balances of conditions and balances of success will always be positive and thus enable those with this right to have the right to have the right of employees and third parties, which through this law, which, which, in turn, will recognise their better status as well as well as those who can say to the third parties. Therefore, in this environment and in this way, the practical application of this law will experience the most positive epilogue and we will fight hard for it. I thank you once again, for supporting everything we've discussed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-16-0.u67021	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 12 of the agenda. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
