ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63518	Dear Mr Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed citizens, as an authorised representative of the proposings, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, which I am chairing, I will explain the procedure and procedures we have carried out with attention, in order to find before you a list of candidates for the selection of the President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition and a list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Competition Commission. We started the procedure on 3 June 2019 and ended on 9 October this year. We held four meetings of the Committee and one session of the Working Group, received and reviewed 25 applications for the competition, held talks with all participants of the public competition who were able and had a desire to respond to the call for an interview and finally, after careful analysis and individual voting on each candidate, decided to send you the proposals that are in front of you today. The procedure is prescribed by Articles 22 and 23. The law on the protection of competition. The Commission's authorities are, as you know, the Council of the Commission and the President of the Commission. The Council shall consist of the President of the Commission and four members of the Council. The President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition and Members of the Commission shall elect and resolve the National Assembly on a proposal from the Competent Committee for Trade Affairs, as provided for in Article 23. The law on the protection of competition. The President of the Commission, members of the Council, shall be elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least 10 years of relevant work experience, which have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, particularly in the field of competition protection and European law, and who enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial personality. The Council shall be composed of experts from both relevant areas, including the President of the Commission, with at least two presentations. Article 23 paragraph 7 of this Act regulates the selection of the Commission body by public competition, which shall be advertised by the President of the National Assembly no later than three months before the end of the term of office of the President of the Commission and of the members of the Council of the Commission. The selection of the President of the Commission, or members of the Council, shall be carried out with two separate lists of candidates, which shall contain at least the same and maximum twice the number of candidates selected. For the President of the Commission, or members of the Council, candidates who receive the most votes on each list, i.e. the first next candidate or candidates on the list for members of the Council, shall be selected until the conditions laid down in Article 2 have been met. The same person may be a candidate on both lists, and if elected on the list for the President of the Commission, the result of the vote for that person on the second list will not be taken into account, nor will it be discussed for a member of the Council. A decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect a president of the Competition Protection Commission since 29 October 2014, has elected a doctor for a period of five years. Dr Miloje Obradovic, and the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect members of the Competition Protection Council, also since 29 October 2014, has selected Dr Veljko Milutinović, Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinović, Marko Obradovic and Ivan Ugrin. Meanwhile, Council member Ivan Ugrin retired, which was the reason for the Committee to suspend its mandate and implement the election procedure of a member of the Commission's Council, according to Articles 24 and 3. By decision of the National Assembly of 27 December 2016, a graduate lawyer, whose term of office expires on 27 December 2021, was elected as a member of the Council, as you know. The mandate expired on 29 October this year for the President of the Commission and the other members of the Competition Protection Council. The legal deadline for advertising a public competition for the election of the President of the Commission and members of the Commission's Council was 29 July this year. So, three months before the term of office. At its 43rd session, held on 3 July 2019, the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy found that the mandate of the President of the Competition Protection Commission, Professor Milo Obradovic and the members of the Commission, Dr Veljak Milutinović, Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinović and Marko Obradovic, expires on 29 October 2019 during the time they were elected. This resulted in conditions for the launch of a procedure for selecting new competition authorities, which was notified by the Committee to the President of the National Assembly and the Secretary-General. Ms. Maja Gojkovic, as president of the National Assembly, announced a public competition for the election of the president and three members of the Competition Protection Council. The contest was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on July 49, 2019, on the National Assembly's website also on July 8th, and on July 10th, the daily "Politika" was published. Since the Committee has carried out the first part of the selection procedure for the new competition authorities in a timely and legal manner in order to prepare as high as possible for the discussion and decision-making process, the Committee has adopted a proposal to educate the working group of three members of the Committee with the task of reviewing the original documentation obtained by participants in the public competition, establishing which of the participants of the public competition meets the criteria and conditions of the Competition Protection Act and of the advertising public competition and submits a report to the Committee with a proposal for a conclusion. The first session of the Working Group to determine the fulfilment of the conditions of the public competition participants for the selection of the Commission's competition authorities was held on 19 September 2019. The session was chaired by Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic as president of the Working Group, and besides it were attended by members of the Working Group Gorica Gajic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and I as chairman of the Committee. The members of the Working Group reviewed the original documentation obtained by the participants of the public competition and found, on the basis of the documentation reviewed, that all participants had supplied the documentation in good time. The task force found that one public competition participant was born in 1953 and met the conditions for retirement in 2018, which is analogous to Article 24. The law on the protection of competition – the reason for the inability to perform a duty. Also, one public competition participant provided photocopies of documents that were not certified. The necessary condition set out in the public competition is that all documents are delivered in the original or certified photocopy, and the Working Group found that it did not meet the conditions set out in the public competition. The Working Group concluded that the criteria and conditions of the Competition Protection Act and the advertising public competition meet 24 participants reported. A public competition participant withdrew his application on September 19th 2019 and was returned to him with documentation. Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic was appointed as the rapporteur of the Working Group at the Committee session. At a session held on 25 September 2019, the Committee adopted a report by the Working Group with a proposal for a conclusion. At the same session, I informed the members and deputies of the Committee that they would hold talks with participants in the public competition on 3 and 4 October 2019 according to the alphabetical order of the last name. All participants in the public competition were informed seven days earlier about the date, time and place of talks, which was the task of the Committee's service, which I would like to commend at this time for the pawnage and organisation of this competition. On the first day of the interview, nine public competition participants responded, and three public competition participants justified the absence due to the inability to respond to the October 3rd call. We informed them that the talks continued on October 4th and invited them if they were able and wanted to take part in the interview. One of the participants informed the competition that he was able to respond to the call on 4 October, and the service referred to the withdrawal procedure of the public competition participants who expressed their will to withdraw the application. On the second day of work, at a session on October 4th, the Committee held a conversation with nine other public competition participants. At a session held on 9 October 2019, the Committee found that out of 26 participants reported, 23 participants met the criteria under the announced public competition for the selection of the President of the Commission and three members of the Competition Protection Council and that another public competition participant withdrew its application to the public competition and decided on 22 candidates. On the basis of the criteria set out in the Competition Protection Act, the conditions for the election from the advertising public competition, the documentation submitted by the participants and the conversation with the public competition participants, the Committee decided by the largest number of votes to be a candidate for the Commission's President for Protection of Competition, while on the second list the largest number of votes were given to Daniela Bokan, Miroslava Djosic and Dr Sinisa Milosevic, candidates for members of the Commission's Council and the protection of competition, whose biographies were provided to you. During the decision-making process, the Committee took note that experts in the field of law or economy with at least two representatives must be represented, in accordance with the Law. After selecting Nebojsa Perić, a graduate lawyer as a candidate for the Commission's presidency, the Committee of the Council of the Commission, Mr Cedomir Radojicic, a graduate lawyer, whose term of office expires on 27 December 2021, met the condition of at least two representatives of the legal profession. By proposing candidates for the selection of three members of the Commission's Council, Daniela Bocan and Dr Sinisa Milosevic, graduate economists, and Miroslava Djosic, a graduate lawyer, are fully met. On the basis of Articles 23, paragraphs 3 and 4. The law on the protection of competition and of Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, set out a list of candidates for the President of the Commission for Competition Protection and a list of candidates for three members of the Competition Protection Council, which he provided to the National Assembly for consideration and decision-making. On this occasion, I thank all candidates for their participation in the competition and for contributing to better understanding in the area of competition protection. The proposed candidates for the President and members of the Council, except for the fact that they received the largest number of votes, acted convincingly, saying they well understood the importance of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, its mission and objectives, which, I believe, will justify if you give them confidence. Continuity in the work of the Commission is achieved by the proposal of two candidates who have managed so far, one economic sector and that is Dr Sinisa Milosevic, and the other by the legal sector Mrs Mirjana Djosic, just as continuity is achieved through the mandate of Mr Cedomir Radojicic, which runs until 2021. The area of competition protection on the market of the Republic of Serbia is governed by the Law on the Protection of Competition in order to promote economic progress and the well-being of society, creating the best conditions for a fair competition of all economic players in Serbia, and particularly for the benefit of the consumer, and it can be said that the best measure of success of the proposed candidates will be as much as they have regulated the market, achieve predictable legal practices, thereby contributing to a rise in competition, i.e. a significant drop in prices on the market for products and services and at the same time to the rise in purchasing power of citizens. The Commission's mandate is decorated in the consistent implementation of the Competition Protection Act, which implies a high degree of autonomy compared to other branches of government, especially in relation to executive power. This autonomy implies personal independence relating to the selection, conditions and procedures of appointment and discharge of officials who lead the Commission. The solution applied in this part in the Republic of Serbia is one of the best practices regulated by law. The Commission shall respond to the National Assembly for its work. The Honored Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, is a brief procedure prescribed by the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has implemented procedures and proposed to the National Assembly candidates for the selection of competition authorities. Our decisions and résumés of the proposed candidates have been sent to you in good time. If you have any questions, I'm at your disposal. I suggest that we consider this matter well and show confidence to the proposed candidates. If you have any questions, I am at your disposal and thank you for your attention. So much for this address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63519	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63520	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, is the Committee on Charters of Values, an institution with a president and four members of the Council who are elected on a proposal from the Committee, by Members of Parliament and, of course, for their work, corresponds to the National Assembly. In view of the fact that, according to the value charter law, not only on the capital market and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in April of the month, the President of the Securities Commission, who until then served as a member of the Securities Committee, was elected to the Council, and therefore it was necessary to discuss, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, one invitation to all parliamentary groups to submit their proposals for candidates to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and to control the spending of public funds. By 10 September 2019, proposals were to be submitted. The only SNS to deliver this proposal, and on September 30th, I have scheduled to hold a meeting session where we held a conversation with that candidate. What is important is to say that the SNS in its proposal had to deliver both biography and what concerns the work programme, as the candidate sees a programme of work in the Securities Commission, but also its possible participation in this work, and what it recommends to the candidate so that the Committee would vote as a proposal and give consideration to the MPs here. The SNS candidate proposed by Marija Djordjevic, a woman who has more than 10 years of work in her biography, when we talk not only about the banking sector, but also about the work of brokerage and her biography, as you can see, she has had all the licenses to do this job since 2008, which she had right in front of this Commission. In addition, she also graduated from high economics school in addition to a university related to the sector. This means that she has long defined herself as doing this job, and she said in her statement that this was one way of her career advancement precisely because many things in her knowledge would circle, because she had a lot of experience in work and with the Commission itself, but also with clients on the capital market. So in all these years, from 2008 to today, she has had the opportunity to see how things change when it comes to securities of value, especially in Serbia, especially when it was the so-called time. Privatisation and when the big economic crisis came, when they, by 2012, led this country, completely destroyed the economy, not just the securities market of value. So what was very interesting, in addition to the biography, is its view that today's market is of value to us very shallow compared to how much our economy really goes, grows and develops. Based on this growth that last year was only 4.4% and based on this degree of foreign direct investment of 3.5 billion, it simply gave its own picture of that and only the securities market of value should be stronger and much better and stronger. After all, she had a lot of experience working on the "Este Bank" projects in early 2019, when it comes to the contribution of the dinarisation of our economy itself, which is actually the part of the experience, when we talk about some of our professional contributions, when it comes to growth and the development of the economy. What she put in her proposal for the programme is that she also saw that many of the laws in which the Securities Commission actively participates as a member of all working groups were to change and monitor these changes and the participation of the Commission itself, and we had the opportunity to vote here in plenary on these laws as well as the drafts relating to the Stock Reserve Act, but also the ones on alternative investment funds, as you remember at one of the previous sessions and the Investment Funds Act. It is interesting to say that this international co-operation is not a party, i.e. it has followed the work of the Commission itself, and it believes that our Commission, like all others, should have started and should continue to carry on a process of reforming the institutional offers on the capital market, so that, on the basis of this, it has concluded that there is a need for a growth and development strategy for the capital market and for the work of the Commission itself for securities of value. I conclude at the end and answer questions, not only the members of the Committee who are from the position, but also the opposition, show that it can deal with this topic and this job, especially when it talks about the organisational structure of growth and the development of the capital market itself, as well as about the need, with the help of international organisations, to prepare Serbia for the entry into this large family of all charters of values, with which Serbia would work towards these high standards, parallel to that, given that we are expected to have a great growth and development of the economy itself, in fact, to follow the work of the Securities Commission itself, how it will reform, that is, to improve its work and monitor the high growth rates that Serbia is following, and based on all these macroeconomic indicators that we are talking about here every day. So candidate Marija Djordjevic has shown that she can perform this function and we have indeed voted in favour of a proposal to elect a member of the Securities Commission, and I call on all members and oppositions and positions to support this candidate, because there is no reason why at all, such professional people, who simply do not have a problem with party definitions, but are exclusively engaged in the profession, would not be able to support all parliamentary groups. So, in voting day, I think this kind of election is really going to get more votes than it really is just one congregation majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63521	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63522	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of this assembly session, including the election of presidents and members of the Competition Protection Commission. As a promoter, she spoke to her colleague Petrovic and little to be added to her discussion. However, I will say that candidates who meet the law of the prescribed conditions, the National Assembly, have been proposed by the committee responsible, i.e. the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism, Energy and Trade. First of all, I would refer briefly to the importance of the Commission for the Protection of Competition as an independent and independent body, which is authorised by law to care primarily for the protection of competition in the Republic of Serbia market, by monitoring and analysing the conditions of competition in sectoral markets, by resolving the rights and obligations of market participants, by providing administrative measures, by providing guidance and guidance for the implementation of the roof law, by proposing to the Government the adoption of rules for the implementation of laws and by participating in their preparation. Therefore, the legal powers, but also the responsibility of the Competition Protection Commission, are high and they speak precisely about the importance of this competition regulation and control body, the legal behaviour of participants and potential competition injuries by participants, such as the illegal concentration of market participants. Therefore, the Commission is tasked with preventing its activity from unfair competition and by its measures to prevent illegally privileged participants in the competition from breaking the law. This law, which was passed in 2009, is in line with EU law, and in this area, it is precisely aimed at regulating market relations and the behaviour of participants, especially those who would unfairly participate, occupy the market and prevent less and economically weaker participants. This certainly would not contribute to this objective, which is an economic prosperous society and a market-based economy. The Competition Protection Commission has its own mission, which is to make sure that conditions on the Serbian market are such as to enable the equal participation of all economic operators and their goods and services in order to enable the economic growth and development of our country, but also to protect the interests and position of our consumers from bad and harmful offers on the market. In this respect, I see the role and importance of the Competition Protection Commission as a regulator that protects the interests of market participants, but also of consumers. What we have heard from the promoters is that it is necessary, in order for the Commission to exercise its legal competence in full capacity, to elect the President of the Commission and three other members of the Commission's Council, who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy. As a member of the Committee, I took part in the work and what is my pleasure is that the Committee on Economy had 23 quality candidates in front of it, most likely that we could take the mortgage and that we were wrong about some quality people, unfortunately we had to listen to three members and the president. I firmly believe that the choice that the Committee on Economy made and proposed to the Serbian Parliament is what was best proposed. What makes me more happy is that, like any other commission, this one has a mandate. There were a lot of young people, which means that in the perspective, we will absolutely not have a problem with people who will seriously deal with this job with the position of members of the Commission, because they also have enough time and experience, and I would also like to say that they would like to improve their knowledge and their capacities. I support the proposals submitted by the committee responsible to the National Assembly, and I stress that in the voting day and by my parliamentary group, the SPS will support the proposals that are now on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63523	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63524	Ladies and gentlemen, we are having a debate over members of the Competition and Paper Protection Commission. Basically, we Serbian radicals do not deal with names or personal solutions for a principled reason because we believe that anyone who has competed, chosen by the Commission, by his name and by his qualifications deserves to be a member of the Commission or that body elected by the Assembly. Secondly, we do not want to deal with and waste time discussing individuals who are members of these committees, but this is an opportunity to still discuss the essence of the problem which is in some way directly or indirectly related to the work of these committees. First of all, this Competition Protection Commission, by regulation and by law, should make sure that conditions of engagement, i.e. functioning on the Serbian market, are the same for all or approximately the same for all participants. We are witnesses that over the past few years, and this is the period, when we would analyze in more detail, which is much longer, we see that of these conditions equal or identical, other than theoretical settings, there is not much evidence where we could suggest that in some way there are certain conditions or climates to function in different areas of different subjects. What bothers us Serbian radicals, what we keep talking about, is that when it comes to the area of imports for many years, for decades, there's an import lobby, even if it's interesting, with the same names and last names, we see how much influence they have, so powerful and so much power that they even influence the work of the National Bank of Serbia, or monetary policy when it comes to the course of the dinar, and it's also widely known in professional circles, and also in the circles of politicians. This import lobby actually works by having no competition at all, or if competition appears quickly eliminated by different methods, different ways. The public is always interested in who these individuals are and who these companies are and who have a monopoly. Well, these are traditionally close to the ruling coalition, or parties that are in power, and, interestingly, when we look at these individuals, it doesn't bother them at all to change political garneries, which is changing parties, which is conditionedly changing ideologies, they accept every ideology, they are present and always every government, which is interesting and characteristic, calls respected businessmen and people who and how they are relevant to economic flows in Serbia. If you could maybe make a projection in a more normal world and some normal conditions, you wouldn't be able to believe that such individuals, and especially their firms, can be put into something that's respectable and something that should be an example. A series is an example of imports, literally and when you look at the types of goods or products being imported, you know exactly which company has a monopoly in which part, and in the meantime all the authorities of the state, including this commission, run statistics and statistics more than they do in essence. Maybe individuals would dare or even this commission to take it a little more seriously, in a more serious way, and that means that in public it states how irregular the conditions are, how much monopoly has been established there, which is the basis of this commission's struggle and the functioning of this commission to prevent the monopoly, but there's always a big sign of the question behind that lobby. There are certainly no ordinary citizens, there are no people who do not have a policy of power, there are always individuals, and there are also political parties that are powerful, who are in power, in one way or another can decide whether the continuity of the import lobby will survive or start to some root changes. Why is this important for the citizens to understand? All of this, the functioning of these commissions and a series of institutions in this country have been tasked with protecting every citizen from this unfair competition, because it reflects the most directly on the lives of all of us. It especially reflects the part that is very, very important in life, and that is the economic and financial part of each and every one of us's lives. So this isn't something that doesn't touch every citizen and that's just in the towers of political debate. Secondly, when we look in the area of finance, when we look in the area of banking, we see that certain banks, certain financial organisations, are inevitably creating a monopoly on the banking market. Whenever such a single question is asked how more banks can be fusiond, that one bank is somehow owned by a majority capital or a larger share than is permitted by law, we will always encounter insubstantial arguments that this is something that is circulating in public, that it is unofficial, and that the bank is officially operating under all the conditions and criteria that the laws provide for. So we have until yesterday that they explained to us that the Vojvodjanska Banka is an independent bank, regardless of even in the media that the OTP bank, the Hungarian bank, became the owner of the Vojvodjanska Banka. The Vojvodjan bank continues to function under that name. Why? Because there's a certain trust in that bank, because it has not a small clientele, the tradition of that bank is much bigger than the OTP bank, just so you know, and there's a lot of mortgage capital bigger and a day-to-day Vojvodjanska Banka than many banks. Remember, for the most part, the Vojvodjanska Banka was a business bank in the AP Vojvodina, and even the Vojvodjanska Banka, for those not informed, had its own exposures in Republika Srpska, which is very, very important. Why? Because it was thus directly established at the time of payment traffic between Serbia and Republika Srpska, because Republika Srpska is potentially strong enough that a bank such as the Vojvodina Bank can function without any problems. With the arrival of foreign capital the first measure taken, I think it was Greek capital, as far as I remember, all ties to the Republika Srpska were cut off. So, you don't need to see it as a pure financial part or a sphere of finance. There is always a policy behind it and something that can be and how significant for the policy being conducted in Serbia, in this case I point to the case of Republika Srpska. Logically, by showing up a new one, so to speak, the owner of the Vojvodjanska Banka has no intention of establishing a connection in the banking system when it comes to Republika Srpska. It's left to Raiffeisen Bank, it's usually a savings facility, etc. So there is something going on in front of our eyes that in any case has the most direct negative impact on life in Serbia. When it comes to economics, here you are, where better examples than foreign investors, those who intend to open power plants in Serbia, they have all the privileges. They have subsidies, they enter directly, which they would say, at the door, and the Latin saying says -- whose father is vo, he doesn't roar at the door. So in this case, they shouldn't worry about subsidies, about getting favourable conditions when it comes to building land, about all other privileges. Unlike domestic businessmen who would eventually intend to expand or open new plants, they do not have nearly any privilege when compared to foreign investors. Perhaps those from the ruling, in order to defend some of their strange policies to deny these facts, but gentlemen, don't forget your life deny you, we have no intention of leading the controversy over it, you see that foreign capital, or investors from abroad, come to Serbia in large numbers. What do you think is luck and a happy solution? Well, if that were good, so you think that only Serbia would deal with the development of the overall economy, that it is developing an economy, that it creates better economic conditions, so that it would not certainly leave the Western European countries to the Balkans, or Serbia, but rather practice them. They'd let foreign capital open, give construction land for free as it's done here, give huge subsidies and thus develop their economy. Nowhere in the world has it been recorded that in this way you can develop your own economy with other people's capital. It's just an attempt here, but what's devastating is that unfair competition is created when it comes to investment and investment. How and in what way will the ruling set solve this? It is hard to believe that there will be some changes more significant in terms of this being positive for domestic investors, because the 2020 budget also provides for not a small amount of funding when it comes to subsidies, they refer to investors, girlically to all investors as someone likes to say here, the same or the same conditions have both domestic and foreign investors. You know Orwell said-- they're all equal, but there are those who are more equal. So even in this case, it's a little bit more equal or more equal to the ones that come from abroad. Why? There's some background behind it all, and it shouldn't be hidden. There are some personal interests. Why don't you talk about it? You know, when a foreign investor comes in, when you talk to a foreigner, then it's less likely to leak it to the public, if you get a commission, to enjoy some privileges. Yes, domestic investors, domestic businessmen, we are in some real contexts of a small country, small by population. According to the law, the likelihood of six or seven million Serbian citizens living in Serbia is always very likely to leak some information, that some commission has been given to a minister, and then it is already a problem for not only that individual, but it is a problem for those who have set him up to function. We are witnesses, day by day, of maltenes, of growing or new and new affairs, I will not speak, I will not compare them, they are all large in our Serbian radicals, and we see that no one less is immune to the fact that time determines, that everything that is related to contacts with some from the domestic market, with investors, with traders leaks quickly. You see how many affairs rock Serbia. When it comes to the road economy itself, where you will be better off than the most unfair if you can say competition by bringing in a foreign performer, bringing in Bechtel, and even this government has gone one step further than any other, it has brought a Lech specialis, proposed a lech specialis adopted by the Assembly. Well, what better evidence you're going to have is that there's just no way they're going to be some regular or objective operating conditions in this case of travel economy. We have had a huge road construction operation, road maintenance, literally the mechanization of the collapse, the owners of these companies have long stepped into that sphere of debt slavery, because they cannot maintain the entire system they acquired in their own country for years to come and build. They can no longer maintain, can't even bear the basic costs, have to be in debt as a mortgage to all that they have, hoping and thinking that in one part of the general building of investments, road infrastructure, at least in one part, they will have the opportunity to work and in some way try to save these devastating consequences that threaten not only for them, but for all those who have been employed or are employed in such companies. We are witnessing that mass layoff workers who worked in road construction operations, "The Ways of Užice" and "Planum" and others, have long had major problems, cannot overcome themselves, the state is not helping them. On the other hand, the government in this country is bringing in a lex special to make the trip from Cack to Pojat the US company. Then it's explained to us that it's the only possible solution that domestic companies have no reference. Well, as gentlemen will have references, where they can get references, where they've been working on major projects, corridors and corridors have been built, where you've engaged domestic companies from Serbia, not counting on us for Serbian radicals, the domestic company is according to us "Integral" from Banja Luka. But let's not talk about it now, what kind of loyal competition is this? How does it work under such conditions? It's not possible, and we only have something that's a form, something that serves as a decoration in order to simply say it, these are these Commissions for the Protection of Competition. These are various commissions and anti-corruption agencies. Imagine the irony, the people who deal with politics, who are MPs calling for little things, why they didn't report something that was completely and valuable, and in any other sense worthless, there's no weight, and besides them there's big tycoons who, thanks to their politics, have acquired that capital. The agency shut up, wisely shut up. Shut up about the Corruption Agency, shut up about the Competition Protection Agency. When it comes to the work of the Ministry of Transport, even the minister has been so raped, it is so independent under the assumption that she said that the difference of three hundred million, the difference in price between what Chinese companies offered and what Bechtel offers, the American company, is not enough, it must increase the total cost of carrying out the work on the Cačak road – Pojate, because the conditions are completely different, there are some already unpredictable problems that arise, they have not even begun to work, and they are already announcing that they will additionally burden, drag their hand into the pockets of all Serbian citizens. Where's the Competition Protection Commission? There is one provision, the truth works, that citizens, that the public knows, say, competition cannot, the principle of competition cannot apply where the interest of the state is. The interest of the state is where special laws are passed, Lex specialis, we want to operate like that? Are we going to depend on foreign contractors to let our domestic economy go to waste? Are we still going to be prisoners of the import lobby? Are we literally going to be slaves in our own country besides this debt slavery we have to foreign banks? Don't deal with formalities. Don't make these people who tried to finish these schools, don't harass them by satisfying the form they essentially have their place, according to us Serbian radicals, which is to prevent unfair competition and that's to power domestic companies and domestic production.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63525	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63526	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after 2000, were privatized, better to say grabbing. The special target was the agricultural combination. The tycoons, who were involved in smuggling in the 1990s and who were happy beneficiaries of sanctions and who filled their pockets during Milosevic, gained the right to fertilise their capital through privatisation. In particular, it was harmful in agriculture. By buying combinations and huge areas of agricultural land, small agricultural holdings that suffered the greatest burden of economic pressure and social peace, economic pressure on our country outside. In the 1990s, none of these tycoons, nor Miskovic, nor Miodrag Kostic, and they were similar to agricultural production, were engaged in smuggling, better said. Many of them smuggled oil, cigarettes, received contigences, earned money, and then, according to the "Finnsnel Integration", the international organisation, through privatisation, took 51 billion dollars out of our country, stole citizens, em stole the state, em took that money out of Serbia's financial flows. Poverty is not made by the poor, but by the rich. The rich take the money with shovels, puking it in a certain place, and it can no longer reach the poor, the common people and the workers of the peasants. Ladies and gentlemen, through the purchase of combinations, the tycoons have also bought processing facilities, but also the buying-in stations, the unsuspecting monopolies are today in terms of buying, say, raspberries, sunflowers, other agricultural products, sugar tails, there are dominant buyers who previously bought the combination, through ransom stations used to keep the monopoly, not only in agricultural production where large possessions threaten small ones, but also through the purchase of additional ones, because through the buying-in stations, the way that agricultural products will be purchased, and that happens every year. The Commission and its outgoing president have never taken this issue seriously. As a result, the dead agricultural holdings that are difficult to recover are the monopolies that have certain buyers, where two or one of them, sit down and agree, set some price they wanted or didn't want, farmers have to respect due to lack of competition. It is known, for example, that these monopolies on the one hand threaten the prices of agricultural products, and on the other hand, that monopoly is headed towards the government and the state authorities. I will give an example from 2011, at the end of 2011, when the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic made a decision, nor was it challenged at the end of the year, when the sugar beet campaign was already under way to buy 15,000 tonnes of sugar for the benefit of the Serbian state. The government made the decision at a price, i.e. for 13m euros. It is the price of 86, 87, euro or 105 dinar, which was the price above the normal price of 30, at least 30 euros, which means he earned no credit, about fivem euros alone with the government of the Republic of Serbia. The second combination he had with the government, it's a monopoly, that in buying sugar tails and quality control, through a dysthetic every farmer steals on sugar tail about 15%, because the control system itself is such that if you want to check the digestia measurement, you had to announce taking a sample and when you announce it, the digestia is normal, 15, 16%, and when that first truck goes by, if you don't re-announce control, which is almost impossible on each vehicle, your digestia falls to 14% which, when you divide, you get at a lower price of 6 to 10%, even 15%. So, on the two sides, Miodrag Kostic stole farmers from two ends, and that was not enough for him when he bought a yacht for that money, not registered to the state of Serbia to make business, but to register it on the white world islands, to avoid paying taxes, on a yacht he bought money, which he took from farmers in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, telecommunications, huge business. For example, the outgoing president of the commission and the commission themselves have done nothing about the SBB, and there are more violations, it's for prison. I think that our competent authorities should deal with not only the outgoing president, but also the members of the Competition Protection Commission. It was impossible to miss some of the facts, or actions committed by the SBB. Let's remember, ICOM mergers, ICOM purchases by SBB. At the time of purchase, SBB had already taken over 50% of Serbia's market, and ICOM had 9%. Thus, the dominant position of the SBB on the territory of the Republic of Serbia was achieved. The Competition Protection Commission, through some strange glasses, observed and allowed such a type of merger and allowed other cable operators to sharpen, including Telecom, this merger and thus the dominant position of Šolakov and Gilas SBB, United Media and United Groups, which are owners of SBB. Furthermore, the Competition Protection Commission is the same cable operator, SBB, whose owner of United Media and United Group allowed the following, you all know that electronic media must register in the Republic of Serbia. The media service provider receives licences from REM, but in doing so, the Competition Protection Commission should make sure that all media are in the same position. This is particularly sensitive because the media is affecting the entire political and social life in Serbia. The media is creating a picture. Based on the picture the media provide, public opinion is being formed, and based on public opinion, people gain their opinion whether or not they will. Based on the information one man receives, he's forming his opinion and it's rare for those who don't use the media today. When you look at some television channels or read some means of information, you have a chance to be misinformed, and if you don't read or watch anything, then you're not informed. Also, media advertising is done through various products that are on our market, affecting the awareness of customers, choosing on the basis of the consciousness and subconscious that is formed in watching TV programs, forming a certain desire for certain products, and this is achieved by advertising. But, lo and behold, the board of members and outgoing presidents missed the opportunity to see and intervene, that cable operator became the owner of TV channels. This was banned from many countries in a market match in Europe. What they banned in their countries allowed it to happen in Serbia. But what Europe has allowed, that Solak and Gilas have excavated certain officials in Brussels, is not surprising to me. I am surprised that the Competition Protection Commission missed the opportunity to stop such a thing, to intervene or to say – cable operator cannot own the media, because in that case it will push its media in front of other media, which has happened. The competition commission had some weird glasses again and didn't see what was going on. Well, let's say, Article 100. The e-media law was violated by the SBB television channels, owned by "N1" and "New" placed ahead of "RTS", "RTS-2", "Pinka", a national frequency media, although the law obliges them to logically sort the channels, they missed it. Also, the Competition Protection Commission has missed the opportunity to say that the most important events, football matches, by law, cannot be transmitted by media that do not cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, which is "N1" and "SBB"-owned sports clubs are the Commission for the Protection of Competition, had strange glasses that I was talking about and missed the opportunity to see and intervene. Furthermore, we all know that domestic media is paying REM, RATL, Sokoya, taxes, and so on, to live off advertising. We all know that SBB's domestic media for their program, for their product, which runs through its cable doesn't pay anything. The Competition Protection Commission kept quiet. So he pays nothing to the media who pays everything. But, look at the wonders, three kinds of cross-border channels, making cross-border boxings that put in a commercial in Bulgaria that's not allowed, and the third type of channels, twenty fake cross-border ones, that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, and they're acting to replay the program. The program can't be re-emissioned unless there's no broadcast. Luxembourg regulators, including Slovenia, have replied that such re-emission programmes in Serbia are not initially broadcast in either Slovenia or Luxembourg, according to SBB, "Adria News" and other related companies with SBB. The Competition Protection Commission has missed an opportunity to say – you can't do that. In such a way, since foreign cross-border channels do not pay any compensation to REM or RATEL or Sokoya or taxes, they have come to a more favourable position on the Republic of Serbia's market in the face of the media that meet their obligations that are domestic and registered here. Working on black, these fake cross-border channels, they took bread broadcasts, they took bread from our domestic media who paid for it. The president of the Competition Protection Commission, addressed by local media, told me here that such a request was never received, which was one lie and a fraud. Local media that have been threatened by such behaviours by SBB and various cross-border channels that are used to pump up subscriptions unlike domestic channels where SBB pays nothing for their programme. With its channels "N1", "Nova" and Sports clubs, it pays several euros per user and you think "N1" television is funded by Americans. No, I don't. It is financed from the subscription of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by pumping money into Luxembourg. In Luxembourg, only fictitiously registered and say – since we don't pay anything in Luxembourg, and in Serbia we allegedly re-emissioned the programme, and there is no re-emission without broadcasting, and we have found that they re-emission the programme, and in Serbia they don't pay anything. Then a virtual walking signal, which he says - well, we produce in Belgrade, and then we walk it to Luxembourg and Slovenia and then return it to Serbia. It's broadcasting through the sad flow of that signal, it's not re-emitting. Re-emissioning at the same time, without any changes in the additions and insertion of domestic advertising. So if this is a program that needs to be re-routed, it has to go the way it's going right now and there's no other way to re-emitting it in any other country, if that's considered re-emissioning. That's not happening. They break all the laws, the Competition Protection Commission has failed to protect domestic media from these false pirated cross-border channels, which, by working on black, endanger those who pay for everything and who live off advertising. Advertises are made through the Media Hour, which is also a Diract Media, which are members, where SBB, United Group and United Media, this business is worth about 500m euros a year in the region, Serbia, Bosnia and Croatia, of which 70% of the businesses in Serbia... So Serbia is pumping 350m euros a year on fake cross-border channels and then you're surprised where Gilas 619m euros came from, and then you're wondering where Mr. Solak's two 35m-euro and 20m-euro Falcon planes came from, and you're surprised, and the Competition Protection Commission has given them the opportunity to prevent this kind of behavior and to prevent the SBB monopolies and to prevent fake cross-border channels from working on black suffocating domestic media. If they take only 20m euros on the advertising market, when you divide into 200 local electronic media, you get that each media damaged through an advert for 100,000 euros, each local media with 100,000 euros will survive, improving its programme without the 100,000 euros threatening to shut down the media. Finally, let me ask you what do you think, gentlemen of the Competition Protection Commission? What do you think of REM? What do you think of Ratel? What do you think if these local media take the same way, in one room in one address in Luxembourg registers all 200 of our domestic channels and they say -- here we are, and we are cross-border television and we stop paying all our obligations, RATELU taxes, REM, Sokoya, and various other associations of performers? Then what do you think will happen? Then Serbia will lose one electronic medium. To say the following, Secretary-General, the Executive Director of REM are the services of Solakov and Gilas's business, such as this Competition Protection Commission. They argue that in Europe, the EU, media can register in one country and broadcast the programme in another. Yes, it is true, but we are not members of the EU and we have never taken a commitment there. So, it's a lie, an expensive paid fat lie, which officials in REM, RATEL and the Competition Protection Commission let out to some dinar to release huge millions of cases of School and Gilas and damage the range of regular media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63527	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63528	Ladies and gentlemen, all these exhibitions that we can hear this morning are just talking about the need for the functioning of the Competition Protection Commission to be arranged and made more orderly in accordance with the decision taken by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is indisputable that we have done much, but in certain segments, as my distinguished colleague, Marijan Risticevic says -- we have much more to do as a Serbian Parliament, as a society, as a Commission for the Protection of Competition. It is relatively difficult to say anything about these two agenda points after the presentation of the two committee presidents who clearly spoke precisely about how we choose committee members. In fact, we today choose two members of the commission, two commissions, or the competition protection commission we choose in accordance with the Competition Protection Act Article 23(3), and this should be done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the authority to do so on the basis of the decision and proposal made by the Committee, in this case we choose the Commission on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Trade. Serbia's parliament elected 29 October 2014, a previous commission dealing with operation over a five-year period, in line with the Competition Protection Act. That Commission, i.e. the President, expired on 29 October 2019. In her paper, the Serbian Parliament adopted several reports and the committee of directors, of course, that he had joined the usual procedure, where he defined the need to elect new members of the commission and president. On July 8, 2019, the Committee on Economy issued a public call, and on July 10th, a press release published an ad to which 23 people applied. I am only saying this about the need to emphasise the importance of the procedure in the area of competition and the Serbian Assembly, i.e. committees themselves respect competition. A discussion was held on 3 October or 4 October, and based on the discussion, the Committee's Working Group set up a proposal on 9 October. The proposal, adopted by the Working Group and proposed to the Assembly in plenary, is in fact the end of the selection process for members of the Competition Protection Commission. We argue today, and in a few days we will choose them. In 2005, the Commission was formed. The Commission is independent and independent in its work, i.e. performs its public office and public authority and is a legal person. In its work, it is based and operates under the Law on the Protection of Competition brought by the Serbian Parliament and several norms brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the Commission is operating in accordance with the usual EU procedure, because the EU clearly defines the level of competition, with Serbia being obliged to sign an Association and Stabilisation Agreement, Article 73, to respect competition in the EU's norms. The Commission is extremely important for the functioning of accession negotiations, because it directly and indirectly participates in the conclusion, i.e. the opening of negotiations number five, negotiations 10, 14, 15 and 23. The Commission, as the law says, serves Serbia's citizens above all, to ensure a full level of competition throughout the territory of the Serbian state and it is undeniable that respect for the Commission's work and respect for the principles of competition are better achieved by foreign companies because they have experience that has decades in the functioning of the Commission and the free market in competition. The Serbian companies, Serbian society, learns free competition, hence the Commission's obligations when sometimes we don't understand what it is doing, is primarily due to the ignorance resulting from inexperience. The importance of the Commission is, in fact, economic freedom. If you have no economic freedom, and there is the Serbian Parliament, the whole society, as well as the Commission, then you have essentially a problem in the functioning of a society. One society grows fastest and develops if you have competition in all areas. Practically, it is impossible to imagine economic growth and development if you have no competition and you do not have a free market. Society grows and develops, not just an economy, if you have freedom. Without economic freedom, it is difficult to talk about growth and economic development. These are principles that still work 500 years ago. The English Revolution, the bourgeois revolution, has only established and confirmed that without economic freedom, there is practically no economic growth, no democracy, no free society. You can't talk about a free economy, talk about the functioning of society if you don't have competition, and competition should be controlled by all state institutions, and primarily in this case by the Competition Protection Commission. The real equality without any conditions is actually competition. We in Serbia have been hard to understand what competition is for centuries. We had two dynasties that were monopolies in running the state, and that's less important, they were primarily monopolies in running the economy. You had a communist-monopolist system, and it's the opposite of a serious functioning of the economy, and that's why our results in society and economics in the history of the economy are different from the nations that had freedom in the economy. It is not disputed that certain parts of society, individual segments of society may want to have different principles in the management of the economy, but then you do not have, on the basis of the state, macroeconomic growth and the macroeconomic economy that is significant. Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, the Competition Protection Commission has major challenges in the coming period, and the Serbian Parliament should not succumb at this time to global challenges that say things are happening in a different way in the world, but the role of the state in the free economy is more important. The current global developments in the economy, in fact, come down to two things – regulation, that is, deregulation of the state. If you look at the deregulation, and it's done primarily by the Asian state, those with progressed economically over the last 10 years. If you look at Africa, it does it today. When nations that had significant economic freedoms don't do it or do it differently, then they find themselves in trouble. This is still the case with the Anglo-Saxon economy. The essence of the functioning of the economy is economic freedom and Serbia needs economic freedom in every sense. Serbia has been a completely changed state since 2014. We can say that we rely on the tradition of the period from 1903 to 1914, when we had significant economic freedoms. Foreign direct investment, which my esteemed colleague has been talking about, which goes beyond three billion, contributes to the development of a free economy. Why? Because by investing so much money in goods and services, you raise the level of competition and thus raise the level of competition in the labour market. This cannot possibly be contrary to Serbia's interest. Practically, when you look at macroeconomic parameters that are all unquestionable, we clearly say that the government policy of the Republic of Serbia has been on track since 2014. Of course competition and the protection of competition is a key thing in the fight against corruption and that is what needs to be highlighted. The law that we will adopt in the next period of time, which is also important, and as far as the origin of the property is concerned, is only an anchor, and the key mechanism is certainly free competition, because when you have competition, then you have no more or less corruption. The Serbian Parliament should, together with the Commission, make efforts to make competition in all areas complete. Where we may be lagging behind, above all, it is an area of education, health, public enterprises, making full competition and completely ironing property rights, regardless of whether it is private or state-owned, we make Serbia a better and richer country. The Securities Commission is certainly part of the competition. It is an institution that needs to regulate functioning in one key segment, which is the capital market. When we choose a member of the Commission today, in fact we face him personally and the entire Commission with two global problems, and this should be stressed that, in addition to the growth of the economy that Serbia has, macroeconomic parameters, in fact, the Securities Commission faces two global problems, two global challenges that are beyond their power. It is, above all, the functioning of European investors on the principle that they do not want to invest in the capital market. Simply, Europeans, Serbs are differently business-oriented compared to Americans and other investment nations. We, first of all, and Europe is investing in three segments – in safe capital, in the banking sector, in private affairs and in the real estate market, and so it is for centuries. That's where the capital market only comes in fourth place. The low capital price at this point also does not correspond to the capital market. If you have a banking sector that gives interest rates that are negative, it practically does positive things for those who want to be in debt. Then you have too much risk and a challenge to take instead of taking cheap loans, go and place capital on the open market at a lower price. Of course, information technologies have contributed to a very easy impact from Serbia today on various markets in the world and leading ones. The shallow Serbian financial market is essentially a problem and we today have to make legislation when market conditions change to welcome these challenges. The Serbian Parliament, the Serbian government, the finance ministry made a number of efforts during the previous period of time. Just a few days ago, we had, in practice, the Investment Funds Act and alternative investment funds where the Serbian Parliament supported expert proposals that went through the Ministry of Finance. This will certainly contribute at some point to making the capital market and the financial market work better. This does not depend on macroeconomic parameters, it depends on objective circumstances. What I would particularly point out and what I would particularly point out is that Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and all institutions operating in the financial market need to look at, as well as the National Bank, which we will discuss a little later, alternative sources of funding. What we're talking about is actually classic sources of funding that exist for 100, 200, 500 years. Today you have changed technology, you have brand-new segments, new funding lines that must be included, and that Serbia is monitoring global and economic developments. You also have Internet funding, IT funding. You have institutions that are traditional in different areas, which are beginning to deal with funding. You have institutions that have never been involved in financing, and they appear on the financial market. Legal regulations and norms by the Serbian Parliament, of course through the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, the Securities Commission, are certainly a challenge ahead of us and that we must address in the next period of time. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would first of all like to congratulate you on voting day for members of the committee, to wish them successful work and to say that the SNS will support the proposals of the Committee on Budgets and Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63529	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of MPs by application for a word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63530	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the question of competition and competition protection is one very important issue for the health of the economy. So I believe that this decision to round up the body that will control the protection of competition is, in fact, formally reaching the assumption that even on the ground, we begin to change the situation that is not so pink in some segments. Of course, the issue of staff should always be put on the usual scale, which is a question or standard of competence, moral competence and professional competence. Certainly, according to the information and the "cv" that we have proposed staff meeting these conditions, and as far as the essential quality of meeting these conditions is concerned, this will only be demonstrated after they have been elected and after they have exercised these powers. However, what I want to draw attention to is the fact that we have a lot of accumulated problems in the field regarding unfair competition and non-compliance with anti-monopol laws, especially where I have insight, which is Sandzak space. We witnessed that a decade ago and a half ago in Sandzak, especially in Novi Pazar, we had a kind of expansion of small businesses, family enterprises, and above all in the manufacturing sector. We had over 5,000 living manufacturers of textile products, shoes, furniture. After that, unfortunately, there is a collapse of this initiative. For a time, Novi Pazar was considered an economic miracle that managed to, in very difficult circumstances, actually offer a model of how it is possible to use a private initiative. Unfortunately, there has been a significant collapse in this sector, primarily due to the lack of respect for the anti-monopol laws and to the collapse of loyal competition that always comes from the sector or that large crime or the discipline of crime and certain structures of the government in the local region. So, we had a phenomenon in Sandzak where big crime was, above all, big drug dealers had as a front for various confection production factories and other products, which they were benefiting from, in fact, that in society they played prominent businessmen, and the main money was pumped from crime and drug trafficking. They were thus able to sell their products below the price, and in a few years they brought down that healthy part of production in Novi Pazar, which they could not deal with on the market that was unprotected, because this criminal who manufactures pants that cost him 15 euros in production, sells them for 12 euros, and the honest one has to sell them for 20 euros and eventually he dies. So it's a very important moment for which it is necessary to attach importance, especially for that small part of that powerful economy that we had at the level of private entrepreneurs. We still have about twenty percent left, and now it would be very important for us to survive the most vital and vital protection. On the other hand, to protect against the abuse of inspection bodies used to account at local political level, where, in some ways, fear is ruled by these firms, because they will be at the mercy of certain inspection bodies which are in the hands of municipal authorities and certain structures of the opposite side, which directly threatens competition protection, i.e. introducing unofficial monopoly practices. So, I want to believe that our support for the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party and these decisions and these appointments, as we have given support to the anti-Monopolitan laws, will finally enable us to put an end to this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63531	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday, the press resented that when I speak, the cameramen don't even catch this sign against GMOs on my tie, and that's why I'm going to hold this tie like this. At the same time, I want to show the document that speaks of avoiding competition in the Republic of Serbia. Recently, the National Assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on plant protection funds. The law extended the obligation to test machines, pesticides in agriculture on 1 January 2022. I was wondering how is it possible to prolong this when the EU has provided 2.5m euros for human training, their licensing, for the purchase of equipment and for the practical provision of a 31st test centre for these devices? I was wondering, too, how is it possible to apply for IPARD funds or for Global G.A.P. when it must have evidence that it has atomized pesticide devices? Looking for this, I came across information that there is, however, a firm in Serbia that is licensed to test these devices. Believe it or not, it is a company, here in ads, "Technical Control" from Novi Sad, which examines in accordance with European standard N 13-790, which controls menmetres, which conducts pump control, spray control, work evenness control and fluid distribution on the sprinkler and sales of measuring instruments. Why did we extend that provision of the law only and only to test pesticides? Is there anyone's interest in leaving only one firm on the Serbian market that will do so and will collect extra profits by licensing pesticide testing devices throughout Serbia, anyone applying for IPARD projects and anyone applying for Global G.A.P. standards? Also, I already announced yesterday that in the previous two days, i.e. during the weekend, 9. I was in the village of Kumara near Novi Becey, where I attended the establishment of the “Coat-gauge-gathering” association and welcomed all participants, because it was the only way to join together and protect their interests, so that they could solve a number of problems, from defiling goats of quality, to increasing participation in the use of subsidies, i.e. incentives instead of modest forty million at least 400 million dinars per year, as much as they could possibly be. On Sunday, 10th, I was in the village of Kutlovo. This is the middle-term between Kragujevac and Gornji Milanovac, which belongs to the territory of the town of Kragujevac, where the representatives of the village residents, pedest and I do not know how many villages in the territory of Kragujevac, have gathered and formed an association of citizens "The People's Movement – I love the village of my own". Here's a photo. Finally, the time has come for the citizens of the village to take matters into their own hands. They formed this association, with the aim of protecting their interests, because they said they were socially and economically reduced compared to the town of Kragujevac, and occupy most of the territory of the town of Kragujevac. They obviously realized that they had to rely "in and in their beaks" and it would be good if they formed a similar association in each municipality in Serbia and that they chose their representatives, the best hosts from the village to represent them in municipalities and cities, because it is obvious that villages have been neglected. And finally, if we want equality, I support initiatives that have been in the context of the development of cooperativeism and in the context of the National Council for the Development of the Village, but, please, from political declaration to practical application, there are many obstacles. Why, for example, do the citizens of the village not provide at least 70% of the investment for infrastructure per capita compared to the resources for the infrastructure invested for the city's inhabitants? Or, for example, why do 10 suburban municipalities in the territory of the city of Belgrade not allocate 70% of resources for infrastructure per capita compared to infrastructure investments per capita in seven urban municipalities? We can't just make a declaration about the equality of residents in villages, and we're practically doing nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63533	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63534	Thank you. As you have heard, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will also support these proposals for a decision, as well as all others concerning protection against monopoly and sound competition when it comes to economic activity in our country. What is very important to us is that these agencies are indeed present in the entire territory of the state, because it is much harder to maintain healthy competition and fight monopolies in environments that are not the central part of the state and represent border and border areas, such as the Sandzak area. You used to be able to hear exactly what the situation in Novi Pazar is, however, much, much worse situation is in Sjenica and Tutin, where literally no one who is not in the field with local authorities can absolutely do any work or any economic activity. It's been going on for 30 years. The one who is not in the field with local authority and especially with the authority of the SDA, Mr. Ugljanin in Tutin, absolutely cannot get any tender, no economic activity of general interest, and if he is engaged in private business, then he is constantly asphyxiated. So it happens, let's say, that only in one village, for which data has been published, in one family exists in the APR registered about 20 companies that are always active when it comes to carrying out works funded by local self-government. It's only because they're both related and political with local authority. The same is true in the area of the Municipality of Sjenica. This is how any healthy business initiative is choked. In this way, a chaotic environment is being created, in which those who have a healthy ambition for a healthy business, for a healthy economy, absolutely have no chance of succeeding, because it is impossible to succeed in the middle where every serious business must be connected through a drug or through business exclusively with the president of the municipality, such as that, for example, in the municipality of Tutin, and also in the municipality of Sjenica. Of course, it is very important that this agency and all other control agencies are really present in these areas and that order is put in place, because only in this way will we succeed in restoring a healthy economic environment and allowing those young people who have and education, who have both good ideas and who have flight and strength to develop their environments, to develop their own jobs, to have the chance to make choices and thus to stay in their places, i.e. to help develop and to promote the economic prosperity of their end. On the other hand, such a truly monopolies ambience rejects all those, especially those originating in these parts, who have serious capital, and are linked to diaspora, to invest anything, to run any business in these environments, although they have a desire, even though they have good ideas, although they have good connections, because those who have, unfortunately, come across walls, have come across open calls for corruption and have come across open calls for abuse of their credibility, their trust and, ultimately, their capital. In order to make these regions, as well as the entire economic territory of our country unique and recognizable to sound competition, because it is a reduced form of monopoly, and indeed, this agency and all other agencies must be additionally present in this area and must take whatever is necessary to protect a healthy initiative and to protect serious manufacturers and to prevent local oligarchs, local sheriffs from using their powers, political, in any way abuse, harassing and recalibrating all those who wish to participate in the economic process of developing their end and their environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63535	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63536	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, here we are, once again in your power, choosing the President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, selecting three members, selecting a member of the Securities Commission. What I, above all, expected during this discussion of yours, is that you first discuss the great successes this commission has achieved in the previous period. First of all, you had to say, and to list the Commission's greatest successes, to see what it was that the commission did magnificently for the citizens of Serbia, to see which monopolies were broken, to see which lobby it came into the grip of this commission, and to know that the big salaries they receive, to ensure their independence and independence, are indeed justified. You gentlemen promised, before you came to power, that you would lift over 100 agencies. You were talking about how they were bloodsuckers, how they invented yellow to capture their own personnel. You said you wouldn't allow it, because millions and millions and millions and dinars and euros are spent annually on the work of those agencies. However, after you came to power, you quickly forgot your promises. You've made a whole series of commissions, too. Unlike the yellow ones, you've stopped giving up that unpopular name -- agencies. So there's been a bit of a change in rhetoric, but the essence remains the same. You claim to be independent and independent for many of these bodies, and it is clear that no one who passes through your party committees and through the committees chaired by your staff can be either independent or independent. How good and serious these personnel committees of yours are, I think it's best to remember a little of those previous solutions of yours. You, ladies and gentlemen, are MPs or your predecessors in these benches, persuading the citizens of Serbia, and that Sasa Jankovic is the best possible solution to the function he has performed. You chose and claimed and guaranteed that he would do the job in the best possible way. It didn't go long and he became Sale Prange, he became a foreign spy, a foreign mercenary and a lot more. You chose Rodoljub Šabić as well. It's also your frame, your upper leaf, which you were equally certain would do the best possible job for which he was in charge. Gentlemen, as an independent candidate, you've put mad Radulet in your government. They put him as a minister and talked a few months later that he was a criminal, that he robbed Serbian citizens as a bankruptcy manager, that he was an extremely bad man and much more, so that they would have him in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, allegedly, as a political opponent, and I don't think he's your political opponent but an ideal opposition. You are still doing it today, you are creating an ideal opposition with both Sergei Trifunović and Misa Vacic and Canka and Chad Jovanovic and many others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63537	Please, colleague Sarovic, at least in the fifth minute, start talking about the subject of the agenda. We've been listening to you for five minutes, for the development of democracy enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63538	You, Mr. Arsic, try, here, at least in 10 minutes to understand what I'm saying. Maybe you don't understand from the beginning...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63539	I give you a warning, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63540	For what reason? What you don't understand is my discussion, you give me a warning. Mr. Arsic, that haughtiness speaks of you and exclusively of you. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63541	Comrade Sarovic, let me remind you. The agenda points are, and this is under discussion: a list of candidates for the President of the Competition Commission, a list of candidates for three members of the Competition Protection Board, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Securities Commission. So these are the topics of the agenda. Go ahead, go ahead, just this once on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63542	Mr. Arsic, my discussion is strictly in line with the agenda points. So, I'm talking about it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63543	Let me remind you. Tell me, what does a colleague of Radulovic have to do with this debate? Tell me, what does a colleague have to do with, say, Nenad Canak or Sasa Jankovic or Rodoljub Sabic? Are they on the list? Do you know what's on the agenda? It's not a problem for me, I won't take it as evil for you, to read the names of the candidates, if you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63544	Mr. Arsic, you understand what your role here would not have asked me to explain what you were just asking. If you claim that only one whose name is in the proposal can be mentioned in the discussion, then you do not understand absolutely what it means... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63545	Comrade Sarovic, I've been patient. I listened for five minutes to whatever you wanted to talk about. In the sixth minute, you haven't tried to be close to the topic of the agenda we're having. So I have to tell you again that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Don't put me in an awkward situation, that I violate the Rules of Procedure and that I be warned by other MPs who think you don't talk about the points of the agenda. If you want me to read you the candidates' names, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63546	Mr. Arsic, you just interrupted me, no less than the fourth time. For the fourth time in five minutes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63547	Here's the fifth time. Article 106. The Rules of Procedure - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor can warn him, except the President of the National Assembly in the case provided for by this Rules of Procedure, concerning the previous position. The previous point of view, to read it to you, is that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. That's why you're breaking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63548	Mr. Arsic, this isn't the first time, and I'm sure it's not the last time that you're taking offense to me. It's all that's left in the stenogram, and it's all part of parliamentary life. I accept that, because that's how you speak exclusively of yourself, say who you are, say what you are, show your education... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63549	I'm not on any read candidate list, I'm not on the agenda. Do you want to continue the discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63550	Here, from the seventh try, Mr. Arsic. Of course, I will be persistent and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia see and hear what is the way you are interrupting the session, in which you are interrupting me. You can punish me willingly, Mr. Arsic, because I would be ashamed to be praised. I'm being punished by people like you, so it's an opposition privilege, Mr. Arsic. You were once the opposition and you met... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63551	Comrade Sarovic, please, about the agenda points, I really ask you. So, it is about candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, a list of candidates for three members of the Competition Protection Council, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Securities Commission. They are candidates, not Veroljub Arsic, or Nemanja Sarovic. Please start talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63552	Please, Mr. Arsic, remember what it looked like while you were being punished by Gordana Komic, while Natasa Micic, while many of you today call yellow thieves, did so. There will either be freedom of speech here or there will be no freedom of speech. I didn't insult anyone, I speak in principle, and I'm talking about your personnel solutions. I have the right within the time set for my parliamentary group to, in the way I think it is best, most comprehensive, how Serbia's citizens will understand it best, explain for what reason I am for or against a solution. It's my business law. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63553	Comrade Sarovic, I have to interrupt again. Around your business rights, you're missing another piece of experience. I'll tell you now. I had to talk about agenda points or agenda points in about a minute and 27 seconds earlier. Once you've mastered it, it won't take you 10 minutes. I'm asking you to talk about a debate that's on the agenda, not whatever you want to talk about. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63554	You have injured Article 27, Articles 106 and 104 and Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you are not here to replace the President of the Assembly, Ms. Maja Gojkovic, to act against the Rules of Procedure, but to respect the right of every MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63555	Are you saying that colleague Gojkovic disrespects the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63556	No, no, I'm saying you're not here to abuse the chair. As for the warning you gave to your colleague Sarovic, you did so against the business, as Col. Sarovic held on to the topics of the agenda. It is for those who can understand and understand that we, the Serbian Radicals, are dissatisfied with the work of the Competition Protection Commission and that the mentioned persons - Nenad Canak, Cedomir Jovanovic, Radulovic and others and that they should fall under the attack of that Competition Protection Commission, which you, as someone who has been involved in politics, should have understood and understood in the way of a political breadth and its eloquence that he showed earlier in his reasoning. You said, Mr. Arsic, I quote - you can't speak... First you asked your colleague Sarovic, there's a secretary, whom we handed over the list of our speakers this morning - does Nemanja Sarovic know what's on the agenda? You hereby insult the SRS, because the SRS has handed over a list of three speakers for our time foreseen by this point, and you're saying that the MPs of the SRS, which we have defined to talk about, don't know what they're talking about, and we heard yesterday about beautiful flowers and greenery on the east side, about how the minister is the most beautiful in the world. One even got up here, that's what King Peter two says, Sonja Vlahovic, she thinks she has some King Peter two when she talks about some elementary school...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63557	Please, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63558	Please don't. You're really tearing down the dignity of MPs with political experience... [[Disabled microphone.]] Three members you've broken and more...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63559	About all the members you said I broke, you'd have broken them if I hadn't reacted. I ask you that when you speak of colleagues, whether they are from another parliamentary group, whether they are from the former regime, etc. to speak with respect. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. ) The other thing, while you're at it and throwing it away, I just wanted to tell you that I didn't ask if he knew, but I offered to help him. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? Yeah. All right. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) By the Rules of Procedure again? How could I break the Rules of Procedure now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63560	You have broken the Rules of Procedure again, Mr. Arsic, because you have been obliged to explain to me my apparition of the breach of the Rules of Procedure whether or not you have or in any way hurt the Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it the way you should protect the integrity and dignity of the National Assembly, but you tried as you tried earlier as your colleague Sarovic and I spoke to you to demean and to tell me and to lecture me that I am here in the course of explaining the injuries of the Rules of Procedure I want to offend. It wasn't my intention. I only gave you one illustration as an example of how MPs of the ruling SNS use time. We don't have anything against it at all, except for some leaps and nebuloses we hear that are neither based on culture nor on history, etc. But, well, we don't mind. There are both quality exhibitions and speeches, and we follow everything closely. You are instead of telling me - that exactly, colleague Jovanovic, in the situations when it comes to the points that are on the agenda of all political parties, most of the ones from which I come SNS speak what they want to talk about, which there is no objection to the SRS, you today, because of your private possible antipathies towards counterpart Sarovic, have taken such a stand. I don't know what's wrong with you. So, my colleague Mircic said several times from the bench – don't Arsic, why are you doing this to Arsic. You proceeded as if it were something interesting now, as if it were now great to see you as being strict here and that colleague Sarovic doesn't know what he's talking about. That's what you tell the MP who has the fifth parliamentary term. Really embarrassing and embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63561	My colleague Jovanovic, I am really sorry that you think that I offended you when I explained why I did not consider I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't my intention. Do you want the National Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63562	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63563	It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63564	Mr. Arsic, you have violated a whole series of members of the Rules of Procedure, of Article 107, of Article 106, of Article 105, and if you should do something, it is that, first of all, you give yourself not only a reminder, but a measure of distance from the session. The way you run the National Assembly sessions is scandalous. The way you discriminate against the MPs, and hence the citizens of Serbia, is an insult to common sense. You allow here for days and weeks and months to talk about everything and everything, which is not on the agenda. You allow people to be told about people who, of course, are not proposed candidates. You allow a lot of people who aren't there to talk, but when it suits you and when it comes to the representatives of the regime. You, Mr. Arsic, are not up to having meetings of the Assembly, and that is my assessment, my political position because you openly show both hatred and impatience and vanity and pride and passion. You have no right to do that. You can't insult me, I repeat that, because how could someone like you insult someone like me? If you could intellectually deal with me, you wouldn't punish me for no reason, and if you think you're going to shut me up like that, Mr. Arsic, like a lot of people have been wronged before you, so now they're at the dump of history, so you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63565	Comrade Sarovic, all that you have now numbered as violations of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by a folk MP who participates in the debate. I'm just the chairman at the moment. Like you think I can't insult you, you can't insult me either. That's what I'm telling you now. One more thing, colleague Sarovic, to be clear, I am for the broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the application of the Rules of Procedure and great freedom to have MPs, but you are six minutes, not immediately in the first sentence no one interrupted you, talking about people who are not at all the subject of this debate, and that can be understood, but you also talked about fellow Members of Parliament. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63566	I want the National Assembly declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63567	Do you want to continue your discussion? (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Again in the Rules of
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63568	Article 103, which states that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. Mr Arsic, you have once again shown how much you do not understand what parliamentary democracy is and how you do not understand what it says in the Rules of Procedure. Just because you have as chairman the obligation to give an explanation when someone points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that does not mean that you have the right to express some of your views, your thoughts, your desires, your memories from the past, etc. You need to explain in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, strictly and you still don't realize that what a speaker can do at a session, it can't be chaired. You have no right to say what I have. You don't understand your duty, your obligation, you think being vice president of the National Assembly is some title that gives you confirmation that you're better than others, that you're smarter, that you can insult, that you can interrupt, that you can punish. Now, that's not it. You need to be more polite, calmer and much better acquainted with the Rules of Procedure than anyone else. That's you, Mr. Arsic, you're not. An insult to common sense is what you say. I'm in your way. You're in the way of what I'm saying. If it wasn't for that, you wouldn't have done it without having to give that punishment. I didn't insult anyone. You are not in a position to deal politically with me or the SRS you once belonged to, so you took over the night of those traits, the ones you were most critical of yesterday and which, today, you are very often criticizing. What is the principle difference between you and Gordana Komic? What is the principle difference between you and Natasha Micic? She's gone. You're all the worst things they've ever represented today. You are the one who does not allow the word of the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be heard. You do not allow political attitudes to be heard. Do I have to give you an advance speech so you can follow what's right and wrong? Or do I have the right to state my position within the time of my parliamentary group, without insulting anyone? I've made a point about your staff, about your commissions, and I have a right to do so, and you can't take that right away from me, Mr. Arsic. If you feel like controversy, have a little courage, a little dignity, get down to the MPs' benches, so you don't try to replicate to me, but without being able to turn off the microphone. It's dishonest, it doesn't replicate like that, it doesn't get into a political duel like that. You want to go on TV, Mr. Arsic? By your choice, on the subject of your choice, let us see who understands better and who is better understood by the citizens of Serbia. You don't have the guts to do that. You have the courage to interrupt, turn off the microphone and punish for no reason. That's you, Mr. Arsic. You're the vice president of the National Assembly today, and tomorrow you won't be, and I'll always be able to look you and everyone else in the eye. I won't have anything to be ashamed of. Will you know a man, and in order to be ashamed, he must have some other qualities first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63569	Here, colleague Sarovic, I've endured everything you've said, there can be a lot of insults, and as you can see, I haven't responded. When you begin to quote the Rules of Procedure, and when you want to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, that same article, at least respect it. Here, that please. You've been talking for five minutes, I didn't want to interrupt you, and according to that same Rules of Procedure, attitude four says, that member of your staff who you said I broke, that attitude says that your discussion about hurting the Rules of Procedure can last for the longest time in two minutes. Well, all that stuff you said about me, try looking at it from another angle, thinking about yourself a little bit, and I don't have that problem coming down here amongst the MPs, replicating with you, every time you've had a bad time, even when you don't read the law. Do you want the National Assembly, in the day of voting, to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63570	I want the National Assembly declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63571	Thank you. Do you want to continue your discussion? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Now, in accordance with Article 112, I am setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Col. Sarovic, you cannot get a word in the Rules of Procedure, since the break was made to avoid further reporting in the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to continue in the order of the registered candidates? Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63573	Mr. Milicevic, first of all, it is good that you noticed that Mr. Arsic is absolutely not in the role of the chairman and that you replaced him. I wish he hadn't even sat in that chair before you and never come to work today. If he's unable to perform that function, then he shouldn't be able to perform it. The second thing, article 112 says, I will read it for the citizens of Serbia – if the president of the National Assembly cannot maintain order at the session regularly, it will set a break until order is established. There was no mess in the session. So, the session normally ran until Mr. Arsic interfered with his incoherent remarks and violations of the Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Milicevic, were part of what Veroljub Arsic did. I suppose you too are at least a little ashamed of that, and I expect that you, as chairman, should, above all, remove any violations of the Rules of Procedure committed by Veroljub Arsic. That's what your duty is. So you can either act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or go over everything Veroljub Arsic has done, and the fact that you have come to replace him speaks enough of what you think about the way he conducts the session. So, the fact that someone takes a break in accordance with Article 112 absolutely does not give you the right to report to someone who reports to the Rules of Procedure, or to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, deny the right to the word. I have the right to the word always, it gives me the right to the Rules of Procedure. You have the right, of course, to act like Mr. Arsic, but don't, Mr. Milicevic, you know that everything here is fleeting. Many here were boastful, many here were ossions, but look where they are today. Therefore, I demand of you, Mr Milicevic, that you repeal all decisions made by Mr Arsic, his decision to give me a warning for no reason, and then possibly move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63574	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. You pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since I did not attend the most part of the session, I could not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure, and from what I understand, my colleague Arsic took a break for one simple reason, because he felt that it was too far from what is the agenda point and what we are talking about today. I don't want it to be misread, I didn't come here to replace Mr. Arsic for the reasons you cited, we simply have the order and arrangement of the presidency among the vice presidents, in accordance with the agreement we make with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I cannot remove what was and was not involved in, Mr. Sarovic, and I certainly cannot do so as vice president of the National Assembly, you know that very well. But I would also ask you and the next speakers to try to focus on what is the theme of today's assembly session. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63575	Yes, I want the National Assembly declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63576	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63577	Dear counterpart Milicevic, let's say that the attempt was to break Article 114. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MP who has been warned is fined up to 10% of the basic salary of the MP. You see, my colleague Milicevic, I have been punished many times in this assembly. I've never asked for the warning I've been told to withdraw, nor do I think of it. I was punished even as president of the SNS parliamentary group when it was the largest political party, as it is now, in this National Assembly and at that time supported the government of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't ask for my warning back then, ever. It's not about that 10%, it's about whether I'm behind what I said or not. Since there were still very difficult words here at my expense that I am incapacitated, here I can now say that my colleague Sarovic and I are working together or as he says, equal or whatever. That's when we don't read the laws, that's when we don't know what the agenda is about, that's when we think we can do what we want and how we want to do it. Then the chairman is guilty because it was hard for us to read the law. That's blasphemy. He doesn't even have to read the law, so at least read the name of the law. He doesn't have to talk all the time on that agenda, but in ten minutes at least let him talk about the subject of the agenda. I guess that's when you respect the National Assembly, too, when you respect your promoters. We are now proposing, not the Government, not the Ministers, but the Assembly Committees, our working bodies. If we can't link the draft decision of our working body to Sasa Jankovic, Nenad Canko, Rodoljub Sabic, Sasa Radulovic or whoever we want to deal with, then we don't even have to deal with the job. We don't have to do this job, I said, we don't have to and we don't need to, it's the same. What kind of a messenger is that? You know what? He can't tell me a colleague, asking me what the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly was like at the time, because he didn't even know where the National Assembly was, he didn't even dream he was going to be a MP in it. It doesn't offend me when he identifies me with her. He should've felt it on his skin, and this is how he was honored by everything he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63578	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I allowed my colleague Sarovic over four minutes, so that was never a problem. Comrade Arsic, you have indicated my understanding of article 114 regarding the specific statement of notice. You also know very well as a People's MP, a longtime MP and as chairman, that I am not able to withdraw a warning, nor to make a decision about it as vice president of the National Assembly. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Can we continue on the agenda? Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63579	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milicevic, Article 27. I think this is really an interesting historical moment. There have been different reports so far to point to some breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, for the first time anyone as Mr. Arsic reported himself, as he said, to point out the attempted injury of Article 114. So it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure in an attempt. We haven't had that yet. He may have become some kind of legal expert in the meantime, but there are a lot of people who end up under the old days of college, who write master's, allegedly write master's, write doctor's, etc. And that's clear. He did not ask for the People’s Assembly to be declared, for in order to make a statement. Here, let anyone know who understood what Veroljub Arsic just said. It's nobody. The only thing we all understand is that he cannot say what is the principle difference between him and Natasha Micic. There's no principle of difference. What's the principle difference? You're talking about how you used to be punished when you were an MP for the SRS. Once upon a time, Mr. Arsic, he's making a story now. In the meantime, you've pro-Europeanly transformed, you've changed gender politically, you've changed your ideology. It is now just a shell between the 2000 Veroljub Arsic, 2001, 2002, 2003 and today, there is no similarity, as there is no longer any principleal difference between you and Natasa Micic, between you and Gordana Komic. You are the modern Natasa Micic. In 2019, you do what she did after 2000, which is why you called them the dosmanians, because of the Zulus they conducted, because they were unable to deal politically with political opponents, so they imposed repressive measures. You're using it now. It's not the DS Rules of Procedure. This is your Rules of Procedure. How many terms do you use? Where are your experts? Where are these geniuses who understand parliamentary democracy? How did you show us that you think anything different from DS? You're the same, you're political clones, you're ideological clones. You use the same personnel, same Rules of Procedure. There is no difference between you and Natasa Micic. There may be other things in some you may be a little better, in some you may be much worse, but at least because you criticized such behavior now you had to have a little more consideration. And that's the point. I just want to stamp your behavior. I, unlike you, Mr. Arsic, am not a millimeter away from my views. I didn't change political parties overnight. I have never changed ideology, and for that, among other things, I am respected by political opponents, those of whom respect can be expected. Some people don't expect that. It's a little... (President: I thank you, colleague Sarovic.) Here, I'll finish next time. Thank you, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63580	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. You've ordered a violation of article 27. – The President of the National Assembly shall represent the National Assembly, convene its meetings, chair them and perform other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. In particular, this is about the chairman, not the president of the National Assembly, and I don't see that I violated the Rules of Procedure, except that I respected him by giving you and Mr. Arsic my word the moment you pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What is my request is that you do not speak directly to the MPs through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because they cannot, as you know, do harm to the Rules of Procedure, I can do it, but I do not see that I have done it in a specific case. Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63581	Article 107(2), colleague Milicevic. A lot of things have been said to me, I don't want to answer everything, all the nonsense, I can't think of. I just wanted to make one big difference between me and my esteemed colleague, Nemanje Sarovic. I have been punished in this National Assembly for my word that I have spoken from this pay phone and I have never asked nor asked, nor will I, that the reminder given to me is withdrawn, because my political position and my political opinion do not cost 10% of the parliamentary salary, and that is exactly what my colleague Sarovic asked you to do, 10% of the parliamentary salary. I don't think so. My political position is my political position, if I am to be punished – I will be, if I should be taken from my word, be taken from me, but I will express it, and never beg to be forgiven, nor if I am already punished for not bearing this punishment entirely. As much as I don't know, but 10,000 is the price for some here. I'll never be, because I don't have a price.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63582	My colleague Arsic, I understand that you first pointed to an infringement of Article 114, I think we've defined it, and now you've pointed to a violation of Article 107(2). – at a session of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to address the MP directly to another MP by using offensive expressions, nor by giving facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. I also did so after my fellow Members were exposed, and asked him and all MPs not to address MPs directly through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because then it was not the violation of the Rules of Procedure but the replica. I guess during the day there will be plenty of time to discuss, I repeat, what is the point of the agenda and that there will be enough time for an argumentary interaction of opinion, and not in this way, I think we are really getting too far from what is the topic of the current assembly session. Mr. Arsic, I have to ask you - do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic. Nemanja Sarovic: I signed up, too. A colleague named Sarovic, the electronic system is here. So, in order of the candidates reported, I give my word. Don't be impatient, slow. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63583	I thank you, Chairman. I'm suggesting a breach of article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly and I ask you to bring this session and our debate under the agenda at last. I understand your tolerance that through the violations of the Rules of Procedure you have allowed and replication, I understand that it is in the spirit of a democratic debate and the confrontation of views, I understand that in this way and the parliamentary groups are trying to show themselves to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the way that in the political sense, words know it best and know it. What seems important to me, it is important that we return to the agenda today, because citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to do our job, citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to make decisions, or acts that are in the interests of citizens, and today we have very important points of the agenda, which are purely personal issues that have been considered extremely seriously and I ask you to continue the debate in this spirit, because this Government of the Republic of Serbia and how it takes care of its personnel, their quality and of course the results of their work. In that sense, it also has the support of the majority composed of the majority of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Please continue this work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63584	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. You've ordered a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I think you've noticed that from the moment I took the presidency, that's exactly what I'm trying to do, let's get back to the agenda point and what it is is the topic of the current assembly session. You're absolutely right that at no point did I want to deny the right to either the position or the opposition to speak and point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63585	Indeed, Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic noted that Veroljub Arsic broke Article 106 and that he spoke any nonsense, I am free to say, which has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda. But even worse, Veroljub Arsic also injured a member of 107, namely the dignity of the National Assembly, and it was necessary for Mr Neđo Jovanovic to point out that, and you, Mr Milicevic, were obliged to interrupt Veroljub Arsic. I expressed my concrete political position that there is no principled difference between Veroljub Arsic and Natasa Micic, that there is no principled difference between Veroljub Arsic and Gordana Komic and all Serbian citizens see it. In response, he tried to insult her, to speak about her price. Look, only one who has a price can think about politics that way. I haven't thought about politics that way, and the proof of that is that, unlike him, I never stole my foreign political mandate, I didn't swear in church that I would respect SRS's ideology, so overnight I became a European. You know, when it comes to political prostitution, then the price doesn't matter, if it's less, if it's more, whether it's completely whatever, it's the principle, it's the point. Either you have, or you don't, and well now that Veroljub Arsic has escaped from the O.R., we can now complete this series of reports by the Rules of Procedure. It may be a hint that he began to develop a sense of shame, which would mean that he may have begun to face him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63586	My colleague Sarovic, I did not want to interrupt you, as I did not interrupt my colleague Arsic, but both you and my colleague Arsic, not a colleague, Jovanovic, spoke directly to any of the MPs. Nemanja Sarovic: I have spoken to you. Less, but okay, I didn't want to interrupt. What I would like to make a request to you and the other MPs, given that there are others reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure simply that the vocabulary we use in the National Assembly be within the political frameworks, that it first be adapted to the dignity of the National Assembly and that it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it does not exceed any political frameworks. Otherwise, I understand, the elections are there, so everyone has their own political approach and political philosophy which is legitimately right. They're close, Mr. Sarovic. Is that why you're impatient? You're not. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63587	Yes, I want the National Assembly declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63588	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. No, we are going in order, co-worker Jovanovic, and counterpart Kovacevic will be given the floor, but before counterpart Kovacevic, a colleague Vladimir Orlic, a colleague of Kovacevic, and a colleague of Nedo Jovanovic reported. Here you go, colleague Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63589	Member of the 103rd Mr. Chairman, who, when there was no reaction in the sense of ending the senseless insult of Veroljub Arsic, who has really exceeded every measure, now gives you the right to transfer this insult to the burden of the time of the parliamentary group, which belongs to Nemanja Sarovic. I think that's the least we can do here. You heard why it happened. Because Veroljub Arsic has said something that is notorna truth and it is clear to all of us that for some of the questions here, money is the main motive for everything he does, including in the National Assembly, and that then it bothers them to complain so strongly and vigorously, to ask for something to change, to withdraw, to correct. In the case of the Negativity of Sarovic, 7,000 dinars, is that right? That's the order of size we've been discussing here for 30 minutes. Seven or 8,000 since there were increases, of course, dinars, of course, is why we need to endure the torture of nervous people here, especially Mr. Arsic, and all of us who listen to this. Mr. Arsic only pointed out the fact that he never set a price for himself, not such, but also the fact that now it has come to me that Mr. Arsic, unlike Nemanje Sarovic, has never, again because of the pair of course, instead of being a Belgrademan, as he is, declared himself a Vranjanec. Remember that? That was a little more than a thousand dinars, but that's another clear indicator of what some people only run and only disrupt. If we talk about who is who and who he looks like and what kind of people he is, there's no principle difference. I would also take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Sarovic, but others who find themselves in that situation, on having decided to be the same as Marko Bastac, to hold him there in power, to put bags on people's heads and to physically torture them. You know why? Well, it's the money again. This time for the money from the racketeering, this time for the money for illegal construction. You know, when you choose your society that way and you're ready to say, I'm a little Belgrademan, a little Vranian for money, and seven thousand dinars is the price for which I'm going to jump in here and say everything and everything about the MP, then you are, as someone has said well today, the best and the most beautiful thing about yourself. In line with that, I invite you to direct those who make such a nice price to themselves at the time of the parliamentary group that the bamboo have spent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63590	Comrade Orlic, you have pointed to a violation of Article 103. I have not disputed at any moment the right to point out to anyone the facts, and what the facts are is a subjective opinion of who they are. Which brings up the facts, I can't really judge that. I can't take it back and correct what's been done, I've talked about it before. I agree with you that we are wasting time on things that are not the subject of today's assembly session, and all the time I'm trying not to go through sanctions, but through dialogue we try to put this session back into a spirit of democracy, or return it to normal flows, to talk about what is the topic of the current assembly session. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Comrade Kovacevic, would you like a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63591	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63592	Please, just a moment, colleague Sarovic, please allow our colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63593	Here, and this shows what we've allowed the Assembly to do to us. We have a nonstop situation for MPs to talk and work, or someone speaking from MPs or the chairman of speeches, to get used to the gym all over, and that's normal for us. And the chairman is there by the Rules of Procedure, among other things, and responsible for the order in the O.R. Second of all, we have business obligations to listen to a man who speaks. But that's not why I answered. I don't want to discuss it like this, it's not my custom, you talk to others like that. Come in nice and talk to me. Please, he's not a member, I didn't answer the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63594	Comrade Kovacevic, one moment please. First of all, as far as the dialogue in parliament is concerned, I cannot personally follow the camera atmosphere, and it is neither the first nor the last time that we have this dialogue in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for this is the responsibility of every parliamentary group, individually, I cannot. Since you've reached out, please just point out not one member of the Rules of Procedure, nothing more and keep talking. (Borisav Kovacevic: He is not a member of the Rules of Procedure, but only a few sentences I want to say. ) Col. Kovacevic, you can contact a few sentences during the debate if you have the right to reply or if you have reported in a orderly manner to the MPs, and you cannot use a few sentences at this time, in fact, if you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm directin' you right now that you're gonna have to point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure to say those few sentences. (Borisav Kovacevic: Article 27) All right, please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63595	Please, this had to come out today. I'll remind you, if you don't believe it or you haven't paid attention, but we've been paying attention to it, several last sessions have been happening to us, I don't know if it's passed or passed, or who, that the whole afternoon discussion has been conducted, people have appeared on the list, and no one, literally, has touched the subject that has been discussed, and it has all been tolerated by the chairman. For this reason, I don't care if Arsic or Sarovic or what anyone is called, in principle, I welcome what he did to the chairman in the image of Arsic, which is that he tried to bring the Rules of Procedure finally into order and that every chairman should break up in the discussion, that is, any of the MPs who are not in the topic. Please, we're losing, I'm telling you, if you make me, that's what I'm going to do, statistically, I'm going to take the stenograms, and I'm going to check it out, we're losing hours in the day to complete, things that have nothing to do with the agenda. Turn that into money as much as it costs the Assembly's working day, so get it together at the level of a year, and you'll see how much money we spend in vain and without need. I answered the other day, I'm not going to say it again, just because we're listening to the same thing for a few days, etc. And that's not what we're reacting to and I've been welcomed to the knife. People, we have to once, I'm president, only once I was in the cabinet a month or two ago, couldn't be president of our parliamentary group, so I was there before the meeting I told her and suggested that we should talk about how we work and how we treat the Rules of Procedure in terms of respect for the same. Here, I suggest now and I think it would be good. We wouldn't have had one of these, I don't know how you guys went through it, but for me today, this is an awkward situation. It's not supposed to be an atmosphere, and that's how we shoot each other and welcome each other to the assembly session. It is not worthy of our place or of what we have taken over as chosen people from the citizens. That is what I meant to say, to use this now as the strongest possible reminder that we should turn to the Rules of Procedure, or work to the end of the Rules of Procedure, because we did not respect it, first of all, it became a habit of letting the chair speak much longer than the Rules of Procedure prescribes, to talk about all possible topics, just not about the agenda etc. Don't do this, it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63596	Thank you. Col. Kovacevic, you pointed to a violation of Rules of Procedure 27, which is your right, he said at the beginning. You said that, among other things, it has been said much longer than expected, and you too have spoken for four minutes and the right to the replica is two minutes. If I had denied the right at any point, no problem, I just want to say that I have broken up, you would say that I am violating the Rules of Procedure and that I am putting you in an unequal position against other MPs and that there are double arches and double standards, which, believe me, none of the chairmans have any intention. You also said that, you compared a day in parliament when MPs spoke in order of the MPs, and talked about different topics. You know what, every MP group looks at the subject we're talking about in a different way and has one broader context of looking at the topic and expanding access to the overall framework. You cannot predict what and how the messengers will speak. It is up to the chairman that, in order for the MPs to give a word, it is up to the chairman that the moment he points out to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he allows the MPs to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as time goes, let it be our responsibility. It is, I repeat, just for one simple reason, that we do not want to put in an unequal position the MPs of the position, versus the MPs of the opposition or vice versa. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63597	I thank the chairman. Given that several injuries before I point out what I am about to do, it can even be said that it is a serious relapse when it comes to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, I again point to Article 106, with great respect for your attitude towards MPs to allow a democratic debate without sanctioning. Please do not allow future abuses of the Rules of Procedure, because these are abuses of procedural powers, even my name has been misused in a tending way, and the Rules of Procedure have been misused by replicating it instead of referring to the Rules of Procedure. I will remind myself once again and agree with one of my predecessors who has made it clear and loud that it is time to return to the agenda and discuss what is very important. I propose, because it will shorten the full time to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, by proposing that you set a break for Mr Milicevic and thus prevent further indication of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, because according to the Rules of Procedure you have the right to do so, because it is also one of the measures that introduces order in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63598	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Col. Sarovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63599	Article 107, Mr. Milicevic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured and it is truly amazing that at the moment that I said we could end the circle of replicas, because Veroljub Arsic escaped from the hall and did not know to explain or to try to explain the principleal difference between him and Natasha Micicic, because there is no, that only MPs of the ruling coalition appear again and point to the violations of the Rules of Procedure that you allegedly made, because as you said earlier, I cannot harm the Rules of Procedure of People's Parliament, but only you as chairman. The last three speakers were from three political parties that are part of the ruling regime. Therefore, Mr. Milicevic, your differences, your differences, at the party level, resolve elsewhere, do not do so in the National Assembly. So, make arrangements before the session, whatever you want, and what you don't want, you can harass both Serbian citizens and harass our MPs. You see, there are different ideas here, these are new domains of parliamentary democracy, so one claims democracy is expensive and should have smaller sessions of the National Assembly, and then says that they should be closed sessions of the National Assembly, because they would probably be better and smarter discussed, so it says it will add up what it costs to the National Assembly. Collect what it costs when there is no National Assembly, when there is no democracy. Collect how much the government of the Republic of Serbia's tyranny costs over the legislative and judicial branch of power. That's what you add up, gentlemen, and that's what's the point. As for those who are trying to answer, you gentlemen are so politically talented that I look forward to every address you make, but make sure the elections are coming, you just said it. They're citizens who'll judge who's worth it, who's not worth it, who's working, who's not working, who's doing political prostitution and who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63600	Comrade Sarovic, don't worry about disagreements, they don't exist. So, be totally relaxed, time will tell. As for showing the breach of the Rules of Procedure by colleagues in the ruling coalition, they are only trying one thing, and that is to direct this session to those during which it should go, and that is to talk about the points of the agenda. I do not think that, as you have defined, the harassment of Serbian citizens is merely a political stance, to which every parliamentary group has a legitimate right. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Nemnja Sarovic: Yes, I want the National Assembly to declare itself. Thank you. I thank my colleague. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63601	Since you, MPs from the government, do not respect democracy, do not know what parliamentary democracy is, I am obliged by Article 32 to help you conduct the session, since you do not allow the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who is not from the government, to never sit in that seat and hold a session, to see once the public of Serbia in what way, indeed, in a democratic spirit, a session of the National Assembly is held. In the chair of the National Assembly, it does not apply to you, it must never allow itself to show itself complexes in relation to any MP. It can be done elsewhere, it can be in a gossip party, but in that place, the one sitting in that place must show, above all, dignity personally, to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. Today we are here again, so after Nemanja Sarovic was forbidden to speak, we heard here again the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, so the return of the story to Bastac. This can be done through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and through a normal parliamentary debate, an SRS MP must not mention a name, a man you once elected in office, whether a minister, like Radulovic, mentioned by Sasa Jankovic, etc. What you're missing is your problem. If you allow through the Rules of Procedure, O Bastac, here, I suggest we do something else through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let Bastache go. Let's talk about the crime of progressors in Požega, let's talk about Krusik, let's talk about a little Schengen, something that depends on the lives of Serbian citizens. Let go of those trivial things. If you'll excuse me, you must allow it absolutely to everyone. Of course, I'm asking you to make a statement in the voting day about this injury as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63602	Thank you. She's a colleague of Radeta's. You mentioned a member of the 32nd Vice President of the National Assembly helping the National Assembly to do business in its work, which I am currently doing and doing. You mentioned parliamentary democracy. Personally, I think that everyone has the opportunity to express their position, at this point, on my great regret through the violations of the Rules of Procedure, that is parliamentary democracy. Would you like the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. You'll get your word, but you've heard from your colleague, Arsic. Come on, please, I have to say if I want to make a statement. You said you wanted to, I figured it out. You asked me if I wanted to plead, I already said I wanted to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63603	That's exactly what I wanted. I don't know who's funny right now. If I say I want you to plead, and the chairman asks me afterwards if I want to, it shows he doesn't listen to what the MP is saying. That's funny to you. But you're really funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63604	My colleague Radeta, I said you would. I have to ask a question first to find out that you said it at first. I have to do it because of my stenogram, my colleague Radet, because you said it the moment the microphone wasn't turned on. You don't have to if I said so. I thank you. The word is from a fellow MP, Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63605	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, here, let me break it while I chaired the National Assembly session, but in order to show the difference between me and the fellow MPs mentioned, Natasa Micic, Gordana Komic, here I will withdraw the warning given to the MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here, I showed one difference, and now I'm going to show another difference. I don't really care when I've been told the reminders, for those 7,000 dinars, that that's why I'm blocking the work of the Assembly and I'm going into a constant breach of the Rules of Procedure, until the chairman withdraws his notice. That's the difference between me and my colleague Sarovic. He was ready to block the work of the National Assembly until his warning retreated. Col. Milicevic, I ask you to take advantage of the position of the chairman, to tell the Secretary-General that the Service of the National Assembly is preparing an act for me to sign, and which I am withdrawing the notice given to Nemanja Sarovic, because I did not allow the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63606	Thank you, colleague Arsic. And that, among other things, is part of parliamentary democracy, I thank you for your contribution. The National Assembly will prepare, i.e. the secretary heard and will prepare what is necessary in order to formally withdraw the warning you gave to your colleagues, Sarovic. Would you like the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you initially pointed out Article 106? (Veloljub Arsic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63607	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milicevic. You know, every time he talks about something, he goes from himself. Some always start with money and they say it's trivial for them to say if it's a member, it's 107th that it's three thousand or 7,000 dinars for them. For them it is, for the citizens of Serbia it is not and it is a serious indicator. Another thing, what kind of force are you and what kind of congregation are you when one man, one MP, can block the work of the National Assembly? If you were right, you would step on it, but there are those who are a little smarter than you are, if they are watching the National Assembly's session, and then they invite you out, and then you get pucks, and they tell you what you have to do. It's not me, Mr. Arsic, this is not the first, not the last reminder, not in this, not in the previous regimes, and I'm sure I'll be punished by someone else. As you can see, I haven't given up and it shows me that a sense of honor, a sense of justice plays a greater role than 6,000, 7,000 or 100,000 dinars, because there are many more penalties that I have paid. That doesn't mean that now that you're pulling that warning, you think it's affecting my opinion of you. Do you think you have distanced yourself from Natasa Micic in principle, or Gordana Komic? Will you pull the Rules of Procedure you're using? You think there's a kid here, so you can play with him? So now I'm going to apply, now I'm not going to apply. That shows passion. Well, that shows haughtiness. That shows you don't understand what parliamentary democracy is. It's not a parliamentary democracy of toys that depends on your goodwill. Either there are principles, or there is respect for a political opponent, or there is no one. How many years have you given me in the past three years, Mr. Arsic, an insult as chairman? You, as chairman, told me I wasn't normal if I didn't think like you. And it's in the stenogram. It's unremembered in parliamentary life. You, Mr. Arsic, for 40 minutes, 45 minutes, you wouldn't give me a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So for you, Maya Gojkovic came, so she gave it to me. Not because she's better than you, but because you had a foreign delegation after that, so it was important not to watch someone from the balcony as the MP of the opposition hour and change of time tries to get word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure but doesn't get it. You can't allow democracy from moment to moment, you can't allow time to discuss, you can't allow time. Either it's allowed or it's not allowed. Everything else is a farce. You were forced to sit at the table with those you said you'd never sit down. You have brought all of Serbia back decades, to discuss democracy and elections in front of foreigners, under a foreign patronage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63609	Talk to those who respect the National Assembly, with us sitting here, who represent the attitudes of the citizens who chose us. Well, you don't respect us, but when strangers come, then you're as calm as bugs. Show me how strong you are, how strong you are. And here, Mr. Arsic, you should behave differently here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63610	Thank you. counterpart Sarovic, I do not see that the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been blocked and that the violations of the Rules of Procedure are an integral part of the work of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63611	Article 27, item 1. What Veroljub Arsic did earlier, so little Perica imagines the National Assembly. Veroljub Arsic cannot from the post of MPs order you as chairman of what you will do. He made a warning and he can only withdraw it on either the Administrative Committee or there, sitting in the chair seat. And to play, so that the public would hear that he was big and generous, so he withdrew the warning that Nemanja Sarovic would not take seven thousand dinars, as if those seven thousand dinars were important to someone and someone intervened because of those seven thousand dinars. So get more work done by this National Assembly. I am truly surprised that you, Mr Milicevic, did not react to this when Mr Arsic was from the seat of the MP, where he could also report to the Rules of Procedure, to replicate, to speak, etc., but from the seat of the MP, he cannot act as the chairman. You're the chairman now. But you allow this National Assembly to really be made more than a children's playroom. There are more serious children in the playroom when they celebrate their birthday than you do in the National Assembly. You're still acting on the system - I think so. Believe me, you can do it right now. Remember the ones you were with -- I can have them up to a few years ago, and those who were opposition up to a few years ago, so you see how the circle of happiness in politics turns. The People's Messenger and the Chairman must, above all, guard the dignity of the National Assembly. And no one can show their strength because from this place you allow the MPs to speak whenever they want, to say whatever they want, to abuse the Rules of Procedure, to abuse the replicas, to abuse the regular debate. They can abuse everything, and the MPs of the opposition, the MPs of the SRS, the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly, are trying to choke every word we want to say. You end your replicas by ending the replica with the final word of the MPs of the government. Has one of the presidents ever made the precedent, which is not a precedent, but would really be in line with parliamentary democracy, to end the replica of the opposition MP? Or that you, since there is already, as I hear, hints and whispers to interrupt the session again, to see if you will do so after pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs of the opposition, or if you will do so to the alms to pick up the MP of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63612	My colleague Radeta, I did not realize that my colleague, Arsic, was acting as an MP from the assembly benches, but I understood it as his request that the secretary of the National Assembly, with the request of Mr Arsic, prepare the necessary documentation to, of course, respect the procedure and withdraw the reminder he gave. I don't really see anything wrong with that. You know very well that, at least in this part of the session and during the previous time period, I am not acting in the context of the presidency -- I can. And you know very well, even you once told me that it was impossible for an opposition MP to happen, remember, end up with a replica, which I really don't pay attention to, but as it stands in the electronic system. And of course, I didn't want any of the chairmans to choke the law, as you said, of the Serbian Radical Party to speak. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63613	I want you to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're doing something in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63614	We'll work, colleague Radeta. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63615	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107 of Item 2 - at the National Assembly session is not allowed to address the MP directly to another MP. Here, my esteemed colleague, not a colleague, you can't even count how much insult he has brought to my account. Nemanja Sarovic: It is no insult if it is true. ) Before I asked the Secretary-General to prepare the necessary documentation for me to withdraw this famous reminder, I apologized to all MPs for withdrawing the warning I gave to fellow Members of Sarovic to violate Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure and Rule 109. Rules of Procedure. I apologized to all MPs, that in the end it would be said that the President of the National Assembly comes in here, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic wanted to impose a strict provision of Members 107, that every MP, including one who speaks, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that it would be very ugly to enter a foreign delegation here in the National Assembly, sees one circusman, and thinks that the National Assembly is a circus. I don't want to make a statement in voting day about this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63616	Comrade Arsic, I have just said that I have understood the apology and application you have made in order to prepare the necessary documentation to carry out the procedure of what you have insisted on. As for Article 107(2), I have repeatedly asked the MPs to try not to address the MPs directly through references to the Rules of Procedure and to address this direction to the chairman. Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63617	Article 109(1), first indent, 8 Mr. Chairman, you've just boasted about how you're running the sessions, and we've basically not had any excessive objections to that part of your work so far, but you just had to react, you're not too late yet. So, if Veroljub Arsic, chairing before you and the Vice-President of the National Assembly, now publicly says that he has made a mistake, that he has actually violated the Rules of Procedure, that he has actually used his power, his haughtiness and in the most cruel way possible violated the Rules of Procedure by giving notice to Nemanja Sarovic, you must therefore, in accordance with the article, the attitude and the indent that I have said, give a warning to him. He can't just go through with it. A moment ago, he was going to say to him, "I give him a warning, after which he wanted to say, "I was joking, I apologized, I withdrawed the warning." That's not how he can do it. It's very precise in which way. As much as this cocky Rules of Procedure is, he must be respected and you must respect him and you must give Veroljub Arsic a warning about what he just said here, in front of the entire public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63618	Thank you, colleague Radeta. It wasn't my intention to brag, nor did I speak that way. As for my colleague Arsic, I don't think it's a symbol of force, pride and strength if you make an apology and a request. He only made an application to prepare whatever was necessary in order to proceed in order to withdraw the warning. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63619	I want to, and I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure again, a new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63620	We've only got reports before you do. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63621	Okay, I'm patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63622	Of course. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63623	Mr. Milicevic, here, it's really good that the president is coming, probably following her. I ask you, in accordance with article 108, to give a warning to MP Veroljub Arsic, because he rudely violated the order at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's session by misusing the fact that the Vice-President of the National Assembly spoke to you, as chairman, during this part of the session, until Mrs Gojkovic arrived, what should you do, not only to you, but also to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. It all began, as Mrs Gojkovic is now there, as president of the National Assembly, and we believe that she will protect us with her integrity against the haughtiness of Veroljub Arsic, when a colleague of Sarovic, using the time of the SRS parliamentary group, made an introduction. First, he talked about the Commission's work so far to protect competition, and then illustrating the individual examples of those you have appointed to certain functions or who benefit you as some kind of, toboj, opposition, mention names both Radulovic and Canka and Cedomir Jovanovic. At that point, Veroljub Arsic, without any basis, as chairman, interrupted his colleague Sarovic. Of course, since he, we didn't then, he was in office as chairman, we could ask from that moment on for a reminder for Arsic. We are now asking, behold, there is now Mrs Gojkovic, to give him the measure of warning, because he is opposed to the Rules of Procedure, indeed disrupting the normal course and order and the work of this session rudely disrupted and in accordance with the article, as she just said to her colleague 109, and I now 108, to give him a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63624	Okay. Two hours of total debate. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: To know what started it. Yeah, I know, I've been watching everything. Don't worry about anything. I followed closely. Chairman Veroljub Arsic, as far as I'm aware, asked the secretary general to prepare papers, documentation, to withdraw a reminder he made two, two and a half hours ago. We'll measure it. If you're not happy with it, here, as President of Parliament, I can do it. But really, the citizens of Serbia really don't have any more of those two and a half hours that we're talking about being warned by one of the MPs here. Nemanja Sarovic: Give Arsic a statement. ) There is no basis to give notice to Vice President Veroljub Arsic. There is no basis for anyone to give him a warning, so I am convinced for two and a half hours that it was enough to clear up the Arsic vs Nemanja Sarovic case in today's session. Veroljub Arsic will withdraw the warning when he receives this documentation. I can pull it, too, if that's easier. This incident and this misunderstanding between the chairman and one of the MPs to bring an end and allow me to continue holding the session. I'll sign the withdrawal, so it's, uh, the peace council has decided that everything will be okay and we'll keep working, we'll discuss it. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63625	Thank you. I will talk about the proposal for a agenda item, specifically related to the selection of the Commission's candidate for competition, for the President and for three members of the Commission, then for the selection of a member of the Securities Commission and the selection of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. I mean, the proposals that were delivered, which Snow White's colleague had just read earlier, are all correct, positive, excellent candidates. I'll, of course, support the proposal. I think it is very important for all of us who are here to have the Competitiveness Protection Commission complete, that there are people who deserve to be there and that we all have the opportunity at all times, in every part of our Serbia, Srlig, Gajino Han, the White Palanca, in all these municipalities in southeastern Serbia, throughout Serbia, to have the opportunity to provide quality healthy competition where quality, best quality products can be purchased and to ensure that they are products from our region. Products from Svrljiga – turret lambs, svrjski cheese, svrjski whitemuž, everything produced by us in our area, that at any time can be competitive, that can reach any customer and normal, there is no way to win and be someone else, because these are the products of our highest quality. I think that we here as people in the Assembly are talking about all these things, talking about the problems that are happening in the territory of these small areas in southeastern Serbia, where I always say that we have to ensure competition, that this competition is healthy, that they are domestic products, that they are products from our fields, that these products can at any moment come to Belgrade and to Novi Sad and that these products can be best qualified, and that qualification is that they are from a healthy environment, from these municipalities, such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Sokobanja, Babušnica, Bolec and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and in other parts of Serbia. These products of ours are really the best we've got. Here, today, the Ariel raspberries are placed in order of the best, best quality products, which means they can appear everywhere because it's the most beautiful and the best thing that we have in us. In Ariel raspberries, in Svrlig svrljiške lamb, in Svrlig svrljaški cheese, in Svrlig svrljjjska belmuž, in Beli Palanca moženica, in Pirot sausages etc., etc. So our Serbia has many beautiful products and that is why competition is important to us, because products from other environments that come to Serbia can never be like our quality, good, organic clean. It can write anything on paper – green, clean, if it came from the side, came from another country, I'm sure, I'm sure a thousand percent, that such a product will be better, better, may not be competitive in price, but it will certainly be healthier. That is why I think that by voting these proposals and the president and the members of the committee, it will be very important for us, because we must at all times and in every place have the opportunity to show our products. I always boast when I say that I am from Svrlig, that it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that I come from an area where order is respected, work, honesty, where Orthodoxism is respected, where the household house is respected and where people are respected. Therefore, I will always say that as long as I am in the Assembly and in the next period, I think Serbia needs more people who respect our tradition, our faith, our Orthodoxism, and I think it is necessary to respect our peasant, the host man, a man who can produce something that is best in Serbia at any moment, and everywhere it can be competitive. Therefore, my fellow Members, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote in favour of the proposals of all these members and the president of the members and members of the committees, because I think it is best. On the other hand, I'd take advantage of the opportunity, I hope no one resents me, because you know that every time I say something that might be funny to someone, it does matter. Here, today, on November 13, 1813, a great Serb was born, a great man was born, Petar Petrovic Negos. It's something very important to all of us. We know everything about him, and we all know who He is. On this day, Katarina Karadjordjevic was born in 1943, a woman, the princess of the Crown Prince Alexander, a person who, at all times, works with his humanitarian work helps a large number of municipalities, such as the Municipality of Svrljig, where he helps all those people who need it. I'd invite her to come to Srlig, to come to the White Palanca, to come to Gajin Han, to visit small municipalities, to help these people with her organization. There's no shame in helping. Whoever has it should help. Once again, dear fellow Members of the Parliament and citizens of Serbia, I will vote as president of the United Peasants' Party, as a man who respects our tradition, our village, our agriculture, who respects our country, for the proposals of these committees, because I think that's what's worth it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63626	Thank you. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Please finish your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63627	Mrs Gojkovic, since I have been informed in the meantime that Veroljub Arsic, who has interrupted me eight times, has already taken eight and a half minutes away from the parliamentary group, it is a time that I am about to have at my disposal, I will only conclude that we do not believe in your staff, in your personnel solutions and that we will not vote for any of these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63628	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63629	Thank you. I'm glad we're back on the agenda and on the list of speakers after a little longer, let's say, breaks. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 317th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work for which they receive their salary neatly and thus clearly demonstrate their relationship with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Commission for the Protection of Competition and the Commission for the Protection of Charter of Values, but also towards the citizens of Serbia. I expected at least today to come to the session when we talk about these independent and independent institutions. You will agree that their mouths were full years ago about independent and independent institutions, so they accused us of not wanting to put on the agenda reports of these independent independent bodies, and when we organised a session of the National Assembly with the agenda of the report on the work of these bodies, they did not come to that session again. But if you are wondering why they are not here today when we talk about these institutions, the answer is very simple – well, not to them Dragan Gilas. Not that Dragan Gilas, who's the boss of all of them, can't let them come to their session. You know how, the Competition Protection Commission is by nature an anti-monopoly body, therefore, by nature an anti-corruption body. If that's what we're talking about, then it's no wonder why Dragan Gilas won't let his MPs come to today's session. How do you expect Gilas to support the anti-monopoly body when he's making all his fortune right on the monopoly, just using the monopoly? How do you expect Gilas to support the anti-corruption body when he acquired all his assets just through corruption? So, everyone knows that he had an absolute monopoly on media advertising in Serbia, a monopoly that was achieved exclusively by political means, political influence and those "Darekt Media" and all other related firms, and thus gained dozens of millions of euros. Everyone knows that during his time as mayor of Belgrade, precisely thanks to corrupt actions, he acquired this famous asset measured today with tens of millions of euros, 25m euros, if I am not mistaken, and he says it is publicly available, and he himself says that in a period when he was not involved in politics, while he was allegedly in the Czech Republic, he earned 74,000 euros. Then the question arises – how does such a difference, where does such money come from? In view of the fact that during that time he performed exclusively public functions, such as The director of that non-existent office, the People's Offices of the President of the Republic, and then the Minister of Government, and then the Mayor of Belgrade, and then the Deputy President of the DS, etc., then we get one answer to that question from where and where the millions come from. Now, the problem is that now that the register is full again, now that the state budget is full, let's say, now that there's money in the budget, well, now that they're back in power, they want to continue with their personal wealth. I would take the opportunity, for the sake of the Serbian citizens, just to say one thing about the address of the previous speaker. Well, he mixed up some years and some mandates when he spoke about the SNS being responsible for Shabic's role as Commissioner for Public Information. So it's not SNS, it's not that year at all. That was a year earlier, before the SNS, to say, took responsibility for the exercise of power. When it comes to that Radulovic, as you said, "mad Radula" or I don't know what you called him, so it's partly true, but then the prime minister was not from the SNS, but from another party. That government did, but after a few months, when people saw who they were dealing with, they immediately drove him out of the government, and that's the end of the story. It's just for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. So, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, strongly supports proposals that are on the agenda today. Our authorised representative has highlighted all the reasons why we will vote for the personnel solutions on the agenda today, as regards the Commission for the Protection of Competition and the Securities Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63630	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the candidate for the President of the Competition Commission is Nebojsa Peric. That's a nice name. Until now, I thought a man was born and now lives in Srlig, and he was born in Loznica, the director of a municipal company in Vrbas or Vrsac, I may be wrong, but it doesn't matter that much now. We do not have enough indicators here as these candidates are, which will serve as president and members of the Competition Protection Council, but Mrs Snezana Petrovic has very detailedly informed that the procedure was under way during the elections. It's something that indicates that certain things are prescribed and respected. For us Serbian Radicals, it is also a very important 24th session where we discussed the report on the work of this Commission. It was held in June of the month and then there were not many objections to work, i.e. on the Commission's work report and its President for 2018. I also made some arguments about the lack of action by the Commission, and it seems to me that another colleague, who was still speaking today, was not given enough attention to it, but from other speakers, above all members of the SNS, we were unable to hear these objections. Now something very interesting has happened. After the adoption of the report, and during the implementation of this procedure, a daily paper began to announce how the president of the commission works. Whether they were ordered texts or not, it's a question of others, that they're dealing with the team, that they're analyzing, and we're going to be the essence of this Commission's work here. This is one of the regulatory bodies that could play a very serious role in the market, above all, Serbia. This may be one of the few regulatory bodies that we in the SRS think could contribute to the development of good financial relations, to increasing the standard of living of Serbian citizens, and therefore perhaps should be respected, to pay greater attention. We do not think that this Commission has dealt with several significant categories at all, which does not mean that it is not at all. An EPS case has been conducted. Maybe this isn't exactly the exact information, somewhere around 20 or close to 20 electricity transporters that exist, and they're not all in the same position, when it comes to the EPS's relationship to them. There's been a procedure, I think certain financial measures have been made. The case against "Mastercard", "Visa", "Frikoma" and some other business participants is under way. What is the greatest possibility of harming competition? We need her here very much. There is a high concentration, or concentration of that capital. It can be created by association, can be attached, can in other ways and major abuses in public procurement. Although there is a Law on Public Procurement, we all expected him to give good results. However, very often he contrasts with what one expected at the time. In order for this Commission and its president to do his job well and to strengthen competition, what must be done here? We need to have two strong segments. The first is certainly this legislative activity, i.e. the legal regulations, and we have the first time in 2005, the second time in 2009 passed the Law on the Protection of Competition, with amendments. There are also some sublegal acts, but in this area, besides the Commission itself, who should participate and make their very serious contribution to strengthen competition in Serbia, or to protect it? This is, above all, of course, when these acts, i.e. by carrying out these business activities, are criminal acts, by the public prosecutor and administrative courts, which are to be intervened after the act adopted by the Commission. We already have a great deal of administrative courts, they're not effective. I don't know if I can say this out loud and publicly, because the minister of justice can say -- now we're going to trust that administrative court with private administrative judges, as we did with public private perpetrators. Comrade Mircic, then I'm going to reduce this discussion about that court. Why are they so overworked? They're so overworked because we at the state administration have a large number of people in certain places with public authority, and they're not professional and they're not competent. What led to that? It's a party job, certainly, there's no other one. People think they can do anything, but basically, it's not like that. This commission, of course, has a big one, now it's modern, popular to say, mission, and the mission is to strengthen competition, to protect it. I guess the vision is to carry out what it is under the law in her jurisdiction, and that's how she's supposed to keep doing it. Where are also major abuses and where has the Commission not responded? It may have taken this working group, perhaps the Committee that proposed these candidates to us, to see how many employees there are, or it is known that, according to the Report, I am speaking from the Report, the work of 33 people in this Commission. According to the systematization, which is approved, it needs 65. Is that an intervention where it wasn't? We expect, Serbian citizens expect and expect both Gilas and Solak's, we also expect in the agreement of refrigerators who are expected each year before the start of the buy-out season, so-called. red gold, which is not a strategic product, but only one very important product in Serbia... Of course, we now have the production of a mercantile blueberry that has been experiencing more and more pioneering steps lately in certain areas, and just where raspberries are most produced. There is no intervention by the Commission or is not to the extent that Serbia's producers and citizens and all those who take this issue a little more seriously want it and expect it. There are no importers who, in the course of further distribution of goods, where the privileged importers are certainly, we studied and we know that they are, trying to impose, to determine the ultimate selling price. The recommended selling price is not as problematic as this one, not to say, the ordered price, where it is conditioned that it has to be. This then disrupts that competition, and there is no competition, or no market product, and it is freedom of transport, goods and services if there are any restrictions, and it exists if the monopolies are trying to implement their ideas, and in that case the Commission remains absent or not responding. I can't say and I won't expect in advance that Nebojsa Peric will not be able to organise this and do it better than the Commission has done so far, but what he's done so far is, mostly at the beginning of his career, work in the field of justice, the prosecution, later in the utility parking service, a public firm, which doesn't mean, when he's got a chance here, he won't be able to respond to that task, but I'm not sure that sometimes the previous president didn't have a call when he wanted to intervene. I don't know, nor do I claim so, but there are plenty of areas left where there was no intervention by either the President or the Council. Maybe he didn't get a signal that he shouldn't interfere there. Whether it is or not, I don't know, but this President and this current Council, which is 3/4 in the changed composition and one because it has not yet expired its mandate, has remained in the old composition, if they are not disturbed by the executive authority and by other powerful individuals who may not be politically powerful, but are financially, they will be able to do their job in a good way. We expect it. We will not vote in favour of this proposal, but we believe that they will have free hands to do their job in accordance with the law and expectations of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63632	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63633	Dear President, we are today discussing members of the Securities Committee, where we were sent the proposal by Mrs. Marija Djordjevic, then three members of the Competition Protection Council, Daniela Bocan, Tosic Miroslav and Dr. Sinisa Milosevic. If we've looked closely, all the candidates have envious biographies and there's no dilemma. They are particularly rich in their working features that adorn the expertise in the front row, responsibility, at least that's how it stands, in the performance of jobs and work tasks and career advancement. With all the candidates, it really looks great. However, what I want to put on a special accent, what Mr., our representative, Mr. Goran Kovacevic was talking about -- there is no competition if there is no economic freedom within the state and outside our country. If there's political pressure on the market either inside or outside, then we really can't talk about competition. One example will be very relevant today, and have so much patience, for the first time, I think, in our public, because I have investigated it, that these days it is done from one of our overseas countries to our country of pressure, and it is normal that we cannot talk about economic freedoms, and that is what some of our domestic journalists in this case are doing, and this is about the Genesis case where the US Congress unanimously adopted a resolution that is required of the state of Serbia to solve the case immediately. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I've been investigating this case for one three four years as a man of the profession and has come up with information very interesting to our public, but also to our country to protect our national and national interests. You know the journalist, Sejdiuovic. You've heard of him. Otherwise, it's a big itch, that Sejdimovic journalist and one of the biggest separatists. These days he claims that, I quote, our judicial limits are impotent, and politicians are hypocrites when it comes to the Being Brothers and that Serbia is not ready to face its crimes, the quote is completed. He further argues that the state will not establish anything about it and argues that the Genesis Brothers have not liquidated without the approval of a senior police or military and state official. He further argues that the Beings entered the SRJ, or Serbia with intent, to help two Roma families leave Kosovo. They're being stopped, as he claims, by a patrol that found out they didn't have a visa to join the SRJ. They were conducted in the Cup and punished for 15 days in prison. They were released before the deadline, you know who you've been following, five days. They have been arrested again, and he claims, and it is officially unknown who took them from the prison for the release of KIM and liquidated. Respected and respected MPs, Sejdimovic and Natasa Kandic dive their crocodile tears over the Bitici brothers. They claim they were later buried in a mass grave. Never, Mr. Journalist, it seems to me that the President of Vojvodina and Natasa Kandic have wondered who the names and last names of the criminals who killed our spray victims in RTS or on the train to the Grdelička Klisura were on 12 April 1999 and who it was, by name and last name, who shot little Milica Rakic who was on the stretch at the time. Now look at what's true, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia. What I'm about to tell you is the speeches of American historians, to see how much DOS ex-co-operated with Bill Clinton and to demonize our country and lies whose consequences we today, these days we see also in the adoption of a resolution by the United States and their Congress. The truth is quite different from what Mr. Journalist and Natasa Kandic say when it comes to the Genesis brothers. Let them explain this, and even to the US Congress, American Justin Raymond, who, by the way, is to know who this is about, to express an activist and a harsh critic was Milosevic's socialist past as president of the SRJ. He sees this case in a completely different light than Bill Clinton and our DOS champions saw. Raymond says that brothers, pay attention, Beings belonged to the Atlantic brigade, not that they went to pull out two Roma families in Kosovo, formed in the United States together with NATO, I call them dusters, NATO dusters, involved in criminal aggression against our country of SRJ and Serbia. So it's about cases like that. American Justin Raymond argues that everything indicates that the Being Brothers after they have stopped their enmity, pay attention to this line by Raymond, illegally as terrorists, pointed out Raymond, fell into southern Serbia, not to Kim, but to southern Serbia, in order to continue the fight for the release of Presevo and Medvedje. You see, respected citizens, being caught as terrorists, Rajmond says, can be executed as such because they are not protected by any international law. The brothers of Beings have received what they deserve. Their deaths are not a war crime, this is a very important, but a responsible punishment for their crimes. Here's what a decent American says. Justin Raymond, with a mockery in one text, refers to the fact that the bodies had some American documents and, above all, a release from the Serbian prison. According to him, Raymond, if the Serbs were to commit a crime, they would surely destroy what could have identified the victims. At the time, Rajmond says, but I guess we do, the Serbian DOS authorities made the victims' brothers' terrorists, and of the then Serb services that had been the duty of anti-terrorist activities, they made criminals, not in KIM, but in the southern part of Serbia. Who sent them there, and they were allowed to go to KIM. You remember very much, ladies and gentlemen, that there was also former Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlović and Natasa Kandic because Milosevic was in prison and they were shouting – they needed victims, and Clinton, who was then pressing from America. That won't work. Gentlemen in Congress American let them ask their fellow citizen Justin Raymond, and the Beings have been before and are now trying to apply themselves to the pressure of our country at the moment when we seek a compromise, long-term and just solution for our southern Serbian province and are trying to pressure our President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic to do this in some way. Respected citizens of Serbia, never and never one part of decent Serbian historians will bow down like the Americans before these attacks, in front of the scientific truth and without justice. This is another attempt to see that today those who are trying to pressure not only the president of the state, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in 1999, are linked to the same forces with which they were also connected. Here they are, walking the streets. That's what they're called. I call them street circuses because they don't even care about choices. They care about taking the government down the street like they did in 2000. I set an example of what competition means when political pressure is on one country. Normally, like my colleagues, the SNS will vote for all these proposed candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63634	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and Art. In the 87th century, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63636	Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today on the agenda a proposal from the Assembly's competent committee to elect the President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition and a member of the Commission. Given that in this term, this assembly of the National Assembly has already had an amendment and an addition to the existing law, as well as a report recently in June, the Commission headed by Mr Obradovic, I will do a little digression to show you, which is the view of the SRS that this para-state authority, which has the administrative authority to do the job of protecting competition, is unable to face this problem in Serbia. In fact, even when the SRS was also the opposition and the main opposition party, when the first call of this Commission was chosen, we said that the scandalous fact that the Commission assumes certain responsibilities as a para-state body, which should operate by certain ministries, by decision and by law which could thus be amended, the Ministry Act, and the already existing ministries, above all the Ministry of Trade, as well as the Ministry of Commerce, have competences from this area. This creates an impression that there is a commission in Serbia whose members we are choosing today, which will solve and prevent unfair competition and protect economic operators. In practice, it turns out it's not like that at all. There were several spectacular examples, one of them mentioned today by counterpart Sreto Peric. However, there have been cases where the Competition Protection Commission, making a solution with a huge tax, which was needed by a company that, by the way, and a state-owned company, was to pay, later by a decision of the Administrative Court, the company received a solution to annul the Commission's decision, which was quickly made, because the process was supposed to take at least a year to examine all the circumstances, but was done for political reasons quickly, and then the Serbian citizens paid for the damage. How? Because with all the interest, which amounted to over 50m euros, the company demanded compensation from the state. This Commission assumes jurisdiction, and here there are lawyers and graduates of administrative procedure, before the ordinary Administrative Court. She and her capacity, as demonstrated in practice, as well as the former president of the Commission have admitted that they do not have enough staff, that they do not have qualified people who would do this job in a quality way so that they can accept and employ them, that they do not have the resources they are still looking for, and that those who are now working have astronomical salaries, from 250 to 300 000 dinars, see what kind of paradox it is, therefore, they are not their capacity, both professionally and technically, able to carry out this job. This job is very serious and rather than having, as was the case in the government by 2000, when the SR Yugoslavia, later the SCG state union, had an anti-monopolitan commission, as a single body working with the government, now formed a special commission that takes over the jurisdiction of the courts, in quite suspicious proceedings it conducts, most often according to the decision of the president and members of the Commission. Are they, ladies and gentlemen, able to do this in one quality way? We are responsible for saying that they are not, because if they were, they would be taking over certain activities as far as cartels are concerned, above all cartels that destroy rabbles, which destroy orchards. Why has the Commission not reported so far on the SRS claims and our public remarks, after all, there is evidence of it, because it was such an offer, that "Bechtel" with the shortcut, namely the lobbying of Zorana Mihajlovic by former US Ambassador Kyle Scott, was given a job that was 300m euros more expensive for Serbian citizens and for Serbia's budget, than China's Tchajna Road and Bridges. So, we are coming into a situation, not to mention the extent of the farce, to illustrate to you this information, that a member of the Commission was one of the former employees of Miroslav Miskovic "Delta Holding". Do you think that they will impartially, securely and responsibly carry out the procedure as would members of a special, independent branch of government, such as the judicial authority, holders of prosecutorial and judicial functions, judges and prosecutors, who could do so in regular court proceedings? Not only have they taken over the office of the Administrative Court, they even carry out certain criminal and criminal proceedings, because what else is in that legal sense, here I am not a lawyer, but I have been in the legislative area for a long time so that I can see it realistically and compare it with the existing laws in the field of justice, that those on themselves, the Commission, this future elected president, can be called Pera Peric, Mika Lazic, it doesn't matter at all who he is, not to be concerned with now, some pompous biography, what do we care, what matters is what they do? They're now on their own to take one of those roles, believe that's not good. It's not good because it creates, right to tell you, legal uncertainty in the Serbian market for companies that need to operate, which are not going to deal with some speculative and cloudy activities, to join in certain cartels, thereby agreeing on offers in the public procurement process, etc. Or those who have freezers so they destroy our raspberries as if raspberries were incompetent and large possessions and people who have their own companies that they do a better job, but they can neither get together, nor buy that freezer, they're forced, and then eventually people hectare so far they just cut, because they won't give a wake. The same is true of you when you prevent business, that's what your colleague Mircic, the import lobby, was talking about. Please, as you are, here is not Milija Miletic, someone may like the way he says it, but he's really right, how are you going to prevent now from protecting the goods that he has and the geographical origin, to tell you that it's not easy to get. You think that's what he was talking about. In the end, if you have the time and the way to apply you, then go and try that famous specialty. Nothing is easy, you know, not to protect, not to get for certain products and a certain standard of quality, a green apple, a geographical origin. It's an agonizing process. Then there comes a tycoon that is a representative of the import lobby, imports some goods that are at least suspicious of quality, but you see what the standard is in the country, something a little cheaper, and the question is, therefore, that the state is helping those who produce our quality food, of course, that it would be favourable to citizens, and that one is positioned on the Serbian market, unfeeling advertising, their products, and all of ours is not good. Then you just get used to people and future generations buying other products instead of homework, instead of pushing for what we need to do. We have a real situation that no one is seriously dealing with problems that have domestic large companies dealing with production, first of all, food. But in the end, to go to the construction sector, to any sector of our economy, industry, that's all the problems for them. So far, the Commission has made some decisions on the shortcut in its work processes, some decisions to impose astronomical penalties so that they can fill their register and have high salaries. Is that the point and essence of the commission's work? Should the members and president of the commission have a salary that is 100,000, at least, dinars greater than the ministerial salary or two or three times that of citizens? It's not just about money, it's about the fact that such things are set up and the order of size and the way they act is not good and it's not going to contribute to the unfair competition here being contained and to protect, first of all, us insisting on it, our domestic companies from the import lobby, from all those who want to mix in the Serbian market, because you know we're all for free flow of goods, capital and all, but let's protect what is ours, where people work hard on it and for generations, to preserve it and to produce what's quality and what needs to be our Serbian goods, to export first of all. Here, now we have a contract that is good for Serbia, for the Eurasian Union, but you know for yourself that our businessmen and how they have problems and in export, here I will tell you openly, the goods for the broad Russian market because that is why, and just to get to this pet of yours, because at the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlović, mildly said mixers with licenses for carriers that need quality Serbian fruit to export to the Russian market where they have arranged jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63637	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now the word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63638	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about candidates for the President and members of the Competition Protection Commission. I am sure that the committee responsible for the economy after the talks with them has referred to the National Assembly for consideration the quality of the proposal, i.e. the best candidates. As an independent and independent organisation, this Commission exercises its powers under the Competition Protection Act and is there to protect consumers, but on the other hand, although our country's economic progress in different ways. When we discussed here in Parliament on the report on work, on their work report, we showed a good relationship with all these independent bodies and concluded that the Assembly as part of a large system, together with the government and together with all these independent bodies, is on a joint mission, which is to enable the proper implementation of the law, above all, in different areas. I would refer briefly to one situation, and in that case, I would like to give you the attitude of the parliamentary majority towards these independent bodies. So, I would refer to another independent and independent organisation, which is the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media, which exercises powers to implement a particular policy in the field of providing media services in Serbia. A public hearing was held in this area yesterday, organised by the Committee on Culture, the committee responsible. The Serbian Progressive Party has again shown that it wants to take active part in these important issues and that we are actually ready for dialogue at any moment. We showed yesterday, and I quote this as a good example, we showed yesterday that we are ready to apply the measures brought by the Government Commissions in terms of banning the abuse of public resources for political purposes, in terms of the full transparency of the electoral list, in terms of the training of a person who will participate tomorrow in the electoral process. What is in the responsibilities of the National Assembly, which is also being prepared by the SNS parliamentary group, is that we are here discussing fully on the principles of democracy and parliamentary dialogue on any amendments and additions to the laws relating to the election. Also, yesterday we could hear that we are also in favour of the absolute implementation of the Law on Electronic Media and that indeed all election lists are represented at the public service in the pre-election campaign. So, and now when it comes to this issue and many other issues, when we speak in the Assembly, the question arises why this was not done in this way until 2012, but also not just that, but now it is happening that they are asking for some things both from the parliamentary majority and from the SNS specifically, and that they insist on talking about certain things, and then, of course, they do not participate in it later. I just wanted to say this as one good example of relations between the SNS and the ruling coalition towards these independent and independent bodies. It is clear that the SNS is ready for parliamentary and dialogue in general on all issues raised before us and on all issues relevant to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Unlike us, those who are not at the session today, and it is mainly about parties or MPs who have joined the Alliance for Serbia, they make it clear to us what their relationship to these important topics is, but it also tells us all about what their objections are, that they are not based on facts, that they are arbitrary and that they are unserious. In that sense, I would like to say that the SNS parliamentary group will support these candidates who are standing before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63639	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now the word has Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63640	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk about selecting candidates for a member of the Securities Committee, which is a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group. A candidate who primarily has experience for more than ten years in brokerage and drug dealings, from the biography that has been delivered to us, i.e. which has been sent to all MPs for insight, we see that she is employed at the Erste Bank at the position of an expert associate - expert broker-diler, therefore in the profession that is needed for this job. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, preceded this debate today at the plenary session, the members of the Committee on Finance had the opportunity to hear the presentation of candidates, to ask questions to the candidate. We've all gotten the impression somewhere that candidate Marija Djordjevic, someone who's really instilling trust, is someone who's really out of the profession and can make a big contribution to improving the work of this institution. The opinion of the candidate for a member of the Charter Commission is that it is urgent to take steps towards the development of a value-based paper market, given that the overall development of the entire country takes place much faster than the development of the securities market. We also heard that the Commission's growth and development strategy for securities of value should, among other things, be based on the experience of the countries in the environment, which have so far been at a higher level than we have. The applicant was also a member of the working team for the draft law on stock exchanges and on the draft law on alternative investment funds, a law that would affect the improvement of the securities market, but also the work of the Securities Commission. The candidate will work to ensure that the institution, or the Charter Commission, takes certain steps towards development by opening up to the market in the first place and towards market participants so that it can obtain feedback from the relevant participants and thus improve its work. As I said at the outset, the opinion of all the members of the Finance Committee is that the proposed candidate has great confidence that it will improve the work of the Securities Commission. Of course, in voting day, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63641	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. Now the word has been made by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63642	Thank you, esteemed chairman, co-workers and colleagues. We heard a lot today, and I, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, and also a member of the Committee on Finance, participated in the work and in drawing up this list of candidates for both one and the other commission. I can tell you, I would not repeat myself, everything that was important for the procedure itself and for the election process itself was spoken of by one president and the other president, and what competition means, which means the free market from the economic aspect for our country was spoken by the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Kovacevic. That at some point, and I'm going to say at the time of the original accumulation of capital, that was about 2000 to 2007, there was all sorts of things happening and there was no protection of competition telling you that when you read the declarations of different producers that one owner was behind them. Someone didn't take care of the protection of competition at the time. There were also talks here today about SBB, about telecommunications, about Telecom. Yes, not only the Competition Protection Commission, but also some other commissions and other agencies took care of it in time, but not only that, but they created a large company that covered over 51% of the market without competition, and during that time limited Telecom and Telecom could not have offered a service for a single dinar for years, which you can finally achieve with us in the last few years, and you can also offer with competition. Now a little more talk about the candidates themselves, especially when it comes to the Competition Protection Commission. We who are members of the Committee and on the Committee have pointed out that the Commission has worked in the previous mandate as well as we have not had any concrete objections to their work, but since the SNS and our coalition partners want us to do better, to be even better, at this point in time of 24 or 25 excellent candidates, candidates with a name and last name, we have decided to choose a new Commission president, a man who was neither a member of the Commission nor three new members of the Commission, and all of them have perfect biographies and I am sure he will do even better than the previous Commission did. When we talk about the lady who was elected member of the Securities Commission, she was the only candidate, so, with the previous commission there was, I can tell you, that kind of good vote, there were good candidates and only the best candidates had passed, that is, candidates who got the most votes. In this case, at the Securities Commission, there was one candidate with a good biography, with a good working experience, with a good impression that she had made in conversation with the Committee, and I am sure that she would work primarily for the interests of this country, and that she would account as well as everyone else who had set up and chosen, which is this National Assembly, because we are the ones who run those commissions. They are independent, but they depend on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, anyway, I'll do what I did on committees, I'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63643	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. Now the word has a People's MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, Mr. Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63644	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a list of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission. The appointment of the president of this commission is a significant step towards full capacity of the Commission's competition protection performance, a step that represents further editing of the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia and another proof of the government's commitment to achieving the full performance of state institutions, and all in favour of Serbian citizens who feel the benefits of such a policy. The Competition Protection Act itself represents an orderly area of competition for the Republic of Serbia market, with the aim of economic progress and the welfare of society, especially for the benefit of consumers. The establishment, position, organisation and authority of the Consumer Protection Commission are the most important elements in terms of the implementation and control of this law. Since the provisions of this law refer to all legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly participate in the transport of goods, i.e. services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it becomes clear how important the Commission is to elect a president tomorrow. The government of the Republic of Serbia creates frameworks for the Commission's operation by defining the relevant market. The relevant market is of great importance because it represents a reference market, prices for goods and services on that market are a measure for the Commission to determine whether there are possible mergers or agreements on our market which affect the fact that the prices and conditions of business are deviating from the conditions of the relevant market and thus put our consumers in an unequal position in terms of paying a higher price for the same product, which is the most common form of breach of competition rights. In light of the provision, it is clear that the purpose of the appointment of the president of this commission with such an exceptional biography is the intention of the Government of Serbia to protect consumers in our country in another way, as well as to improve the business environment for the benefit of our citizens. The Commission President's task is to represent and represent the Commission, manage the work of the Council, make decisions and perform other duties in accordance with the Statute of the Competition Protection Commission. Due to the importance of this institution, the law has laid down very high criteria for the president and members of the Commission and the Council. The President of the Commission and the members of the Council shall be elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least 10 years of relevant working relationship, professional experience, who have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, particularly in the field of competition protection and European law, and who enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial person. With pleasure in the end, I can say that the proposed candidate is more than professional and qualified to perform this duty. His personal and working biography is an example of high business, professional and moral quality of personnel, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses on responsible state functions. I expect it to contribute, of course, if elected, in the best possible way to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the policy of constantly improving the living conditions and the work of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63645	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The word has Milan Ljubic. He's not there. Now the word has Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63646	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have heard details of the procedure for electing the president and members of the Competition Commission from the authorised representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, i.e. from my colleague Petrovic, and as a member of this committee, I would point out that the Committee has been very careful to consider the candidates' applications and that, based on the talks we have had with the candidates, in my opinion, we have made a good decision. It is undeniable that the candidates were very high-quality, and what was crucial in the statement on the selection of candidates, except for the good qualifications reported, was the vision of candidates to improve the work of the Competition Protection Commission itself. So, most of the Committee members, as demonstrated in their vote, were overcome by candidates who showed excellent knowledge of the work of the Commission itself, its functioning, but above all presented very good intensities and guidelines for strengthening and improving the Commission's work on the protection of competition. The President and members of the Commission are elected, as we have heard from colleagues from Bogatinovic, from the ranks of prominent law and economic experts who have a minimum of 10 years of relevant work and professional experience, have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in this area. I must say in my personal name that I am very pleasantly surprised by the competences of the elected members of the Commission, as well as by the president of this Commission, because their biographies are really impressive and I really expect this composition to surpass the previous who has worked well, has been successful in its work. So much will be harder for this composition to make visible progress in this area. However, that is why we have chosen the best among them, those who are up to the challenge of entering into commission activities with a new energy. Competition as one of the basic principles of the market economy implies competition for business operators in order to better position the market and increase their own economic efficiency. Protection of competition and the creation of so-called Fair competition is often useful for both business and citizens as users of certain services, i.e. goods. Companies are often unaware that certain anti-competitive decisions and market moves violate the Competition Protection Act. In these cases, proceedings shall be brought against them before the Competition Protection Commission. The Commission's action provides for the improvement of the economic efficiency of market players, which has a beneficial impact on the economic growth and productivity of market participants themselves. The competition of market providers has a general impact on the formation of lower prices, quality and variety of goods and services, which, of course, represents greater satisfaction for end-users and affects the increase in production, i.e. the creation of sustainable jobs. In view of the importance of this area of candidates proposed as a Committee to the National Assembly, which colleagues in the voting day, I hope, will support a visible shift in the implementation of the competitiveness policy, of course, in that part of the Commission's competence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63647	Thank you, Mrs. Stojanović. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are at the end of today's debate and let me express one satisfaction over the constructive yet different debates that have contributed to today's confirmation I can say, all in all, the Committee's decisions are confirmed. I thank both colleagues and colleagues of the Committee who took part in today's debate and have confirmed their active role and work on the Committee during the public competition procedure. You've heard that we've chosen, and it's not easy for us to choose from a large number of good candidates the best, but, well, by individual vote, by a set of votes, we've established a list. I deeply believe that the proposed candidates will deliver good results. They have created foundations, they have a high standard, and it's going to be very difficult for them to raise the quality of work and value, but since they're fresh blood, they're unburdened and professional people believe they'll be able to do it. I have to tell you that the Competition Protection Commission, a relatively young body, founded in 2005, started working in 2006, is just the third president and members of the third term just finished and I can say that it was not easy for them to achieve the best possible results in their operation, because when you have one young body you need to create all the necessary frameworks, these are institutional, legislative, humane, to cover all sectors on the market, market participants, it's simply, how can I tell you, not all at once. Certain priorities must be put in place, and I think that so far the commission has done so well and has brought these things down to one good level to leave good results and a good foundation for a future meeting, namely the new president and members of the Council. I must tell you that this Commission of ours for the Protection of Competition, although there is only 13 years, has gained a great international reputation and recognition, and in that sense I think we should respect it and influence us as MPs that this quality of work continues to grow. This is a good opportunity to thank the co-operation of the current president and members of the Competition Council and to once again put before the proposed candidates the fact that our country is defined in the market economy and modern economic policy and that the development of competition protection policy is one of the important pillars of economic reform. The developments in our market suggest that work to protect competition must be constant, and the creation and protection of fair market conditions must be improved. That the space for promotion is seen in the report of the Consumer Protection Association, especially when it comes to quality, prices and the range of products and services on the domestic market. According to statistics on price developments over the last ten years, we have a product and service segment whose prices are in decline, which is indicators of healthy competition that led to a relative rise in population standards, i.e. a rise in purchasing power in Serbia, and we give strong support to the commission to continue activities in this direction so that prices in other segments fall. I particularly point out this ahead of the election of the proposed candidates and the near adoption of a new Competition Protection Act. We encourage the Commission to continue working tirelessly to improve competition and create conditions for a fair match of uncompromising fight against cartels and any abuse of dominant position as well as abuse of monopoly. So, the monopoly is not prohibited, but there are no abuses of monopoly and all other forms of injury to competition. The Competition Protection Commission can be sure that there are partners in the National Assembly and support for activities that contribute to raising the level of knowledge and understanding of the importance of competition and rights and competition protection policy. In addition, the Committee is at the disposal of the Commission when it comes to activities to improve co-operation and complementar action with all other relevant institutions in the country, business and civil society organisations as well as the academic community, in efforts to influence the creation of a more positive economic environment in which there is room for all serious and efficient investors. In the segment of its competence, the commission should build that institution in a way that will ensure that conditions are as fair as possible in all sectors, in the entire market of the Republic of Serbia and in the better life of all citizens of our country. Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I call on you to adopt these proposals in the day to vote and give the proposed candidates a new chance to improve the position of the Competition Protection Commission, i.e. as good market regulators, make it possible for healthy competition, the price of products and services to fall on our market, and our citizens to have a better standard, a better life and lower prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63649	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. According to Article 98(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 8 to 10 of the agenda. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. Does National Assembly Vice-President Veroljub Arsic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63650	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. He had before us a proposal from the Committee on Finance, concerning the election responsibilities of the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Serbian National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, responsible for the affairs of finance, it is about the election of one member of the NBS Council. Every time you ask a question about the NBS itself, there's one thing I can say is a mystery about what the NBS is really doing. Most of our citizens believe that the NBS is the only authority it has is to determine the course of the dinar. But I couldn't agree with that. The competencies of the NBS and its importance in the economic system of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with our Constitution and other laws, are much more important and important. The Council's work itself, among other things, now comes to the authority of the Council itself, determines the dinar course regime on the proposal of the Executive Board with the consent of the Government. We decided not to have a fixed rate of dinar, but to have so-called. swimming or fructose course, which has proved to be very good for our economy over the past few years. It brings a foreign reserve management strategy on a proposal from the Executive Board. It is also very important where the NBS keeps its foreign reserve, which conditions must be met by banks where our foreign exchange reserves are deposited and what is the way in which these foreign reserves are activated, if the NBS estimates that we need them, decides on membership of an international and financial organisation or institution, adopts the NBS' financial plan, adopts the NBS' annual financial report, and even we discuss it on the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee has decided to propose, i.e. to renew the mandate to Mr Nikola Martinovic. One of the reasons is that the NBS has had very good results over the past few years. First, I must draw attention to the fact that all those measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, would have been significantly difficult if it hadn't been for the Central Bank, i.e. the NBS, which in a certain way supported the fiscal consolidation measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia carried out in several directions. One of the directions is to control the financial market, determine the value of capital on the financial market, assess NBS what inflation will be and of course what our citizens and economy are most interested in, what a course of dinars would be. The National Bank, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has found there, I can say, one measure of how it should behave in these circumstances, and thus has supported and shortened in a certain way the fiscal consolidation measures themselves, and we now have one situation to say that the Republic of Serbia is covering its current costs from real incomes, not from credits on the international or domestic market, and certainly that the National Bank and its Council have the merit to do so, so that was the reason why the Finance Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly of the Old, or candidate Nikola Martinovic as a member of the Council, i.e. to continue to perform this function. With all this in mind, the SNS parliamentary group in voting day will support this proposal from the Finance Committee because that team and those results that the NBS has behind us do not want to forget, but rather hope for even better results in the future and it is certain that Mr Nikola Martinovic, along with the governor and other members of the NBS Council, will make a contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63651	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Whether one of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, is answering for a word. The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63652	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal here to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS and, in any case, it can be classified as a routine job to be done by the National Assembly, because this is a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group, which was on the Finance Committee, it has been given to the majority, so that the Assembly, based on the composition and number of MPs, should confirm what is and voted on by the Finance Committee. There is one detail that the public needs to know when it comes to candidacy, each parliamentary group has the right to run for this place specifically talk about a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS and we who are members of the Finance Committee, at one point we found ourselves. Namely, as the official proposal stated, the SNS parliamentary group proposed a candidate in question who until then served as a member of the Board of Governors, and in the earlier period he was a member of the Board of Governors and, as the nature of things requires, talks with candidates were asked questions about what was interesting. Interestingly, during the previous period, the member was proposed by the SPS, and now comes from the parliamentary group, from the SPS parliamentary group in the previous term, I am saying that he would be clear, and now the same candidate is proposed by the SNS. When asked how I was looking at such things that two different political options as presented in the public, ideologically and in every respect, to propose the same candidate or agree on it, he said, he was proposed by the cabinet of the governor of the National Bank, which is simple to deny. Why am I saying this in detail, not for reasons to get into any debate, but for the public to know that there is another institution, conditionally said, that can suggest, and that an official parliamentary group has been signed, which is a little strange. Do you agree? However, the parliamentary group is something that should, by the logic of things, be above the cabinet of governors or cabinets of the Prime Minister or any cabinet chief. We Serbian radicals are saying everything that is important to the public to know, for the simple reason that this seat and function of a member of the Board of Governors is not even a little underestimating, it is a very important function. You know, in these places, there were always people who had great experience, huge knowledge, which doesn't diminish both sides of the candidate, but it's strange enough, considering that even the powers of the governor's council are not so small. Of course, most of all, they make decisions on the proposal of the Executive Board and the Governor, but there is one very important provision on this law, where the Board of Governors can launch an initiative to shift governors, which is very important. Why do I call this an example? To make people understand. If the governor's cabinet proposes someone to be a member of the Board of Governors, and tomorrow should come under legal provisions to discuss or launch an initiative to replace the governors, imagine what that relationship will be and how this man, whom the governor's cabinet has proposed, will behave. It's a bit contrary to independence in deciding a member of the Board of Governors, no matter what he thinks. For us Serbian radicals, it's a little weird, I'm telling you again, not getting into the quality and all that owns both the candidate and the other candidate who was in front of the Committee. There were some objections, but they were, which would have been modern, modern language in the of, and there were some other candidates, who were known to suggest a cabinet of governors, we could suggest a man who had a great deal of experience, a man who had proven himself, confirmed himself in banking affairs, financial affairs, and that was Life Mihajlović, the former CEO of the Vojvodjanska Banka, and that was a colleague, a member of the PUPS Committee, who said what I thought was a completely rational proposal, because years of life, the current status was not an obstacle to being a member of the Board of Governors, and this candidate was elected on several occasions, but it was known that the cabinet of governors could also be proposed another candidate, that we talk and that we had a high quality candidate. I don't know what the SRS would do to me in that case, but it's irrelevant to this debate now. Here we have an institution that is most important at the moment for Serbia, which is NBS. And all this stuff that was said earlier, it stands as an irrefutable fact. But we're looking at it from another angle. We look at the angle that NBS has become Serbia's most profitable firm, which is little, you have to agree strangely. When you look at the budget for this year, you will see that the largest amount on behalf of the budget funds, the NBS has paid off. There are data that are true, that the biggest exchange reserve, that is the most stable dinar, that prices are stable, inflation, is not changing, and that's true. The largest foreign reserves are, but do not lose sight of the fact that these foreign reserves are well formed from the so-called so-called so-called ‘excess ’ part. a sign. These foreign reserves have been generated from all these investments by investors who bring in foreign exchanges, swap them for dinars and are used by increasing foreign reserves. It makes sense. When it's a stable economy, when it's a stable economy and finance, it's not burning to increase foreign reserves. The foreign exchange reserves, otherwise, under the law, as a colleague has said before, can, as recommended, be done by the National Bank Governor's Council, they can be deposited or stored in certain banks decided by the Executive Board, or the Governor of the National Bank, with the consent of, of course, the Government and the Board of Governors. We had a situation where it was deposited in Germany, in a German bank. After that, when it's revealed that this bank is in no small financial problems, we don't have any information about what's going on with these foreign exchange reserves, except for some general place -- don't worry about us from the opposition, because it's probably not our business, it's not our money, it's some private property or someone is threatening the right to just worry about where the foreign reserves are and no one can know about it anymore. It's like it's the biggest state secret where foreign reserves are deposited and what a fate it is. No one knows. The public has not been informed. It's just said, don't worry. Which they would say - who the snakes are, that lizard is afraid of. We've had those experiences before, especially when it comes to foreign reserve. Remember when that "buldozer revolution" came, those pro-European financial experts, and it was later found out that the country's foreign reserves were used at that time for private purposes. Then mention is some Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkić, etc., etc. But that's all later. That's what this is about. The public has to, what you think we shouldn't know, the public needs to know the whole truth. Secondly, gentlemen, on average, an average of about four billion euros pours into Serbia on average, in contrast. That's not negligible, given that the total foreign savings fund is nine billion euros, plus four billion, that's 13 billion, plus 13 billion foreign exchange reserves, that's 26 billion, and the mandatory foreign reserve that's about two and a half billion, that's a hell of a lot of capital. But the nature and essence of the creation of that capital still has little to deserve attention. It is not capital that is mostly acquired by the development of the economy, so from the profits that the economy makes, it is paid either at the expense of what is exported, and then the foreign exchange inflow is realised, and this foreign exchange inflow, by nature, is sold to banks or to the National Bank of Serbia, and the National Bank of Serbia gives the opposite value. That would be the logic of things and economic legality. But here we have recorded smaller exports than imports. So how do you interpret it? So it could be improvised and said it's all artificial, it creates a picture that the state is very stable because the foreign reserves are 13 billion. That could mean it. It could mean that it's enough resources that the state can function for about a year if it comes to, God forbid, some unpredictable circumstances. Those unpredictable circumstances, if they come, don't God, nobody's gonna be able to handle it. Don't let God get to it. That explanation can serve to make the people have some imperative that it can be a much more complicated situation than it is now. But this nation has experience when sanctions are imposed. This is the moment or move when all available funds are blocked abroad. And that's what we saw doing. I guess it's clear to everyone that no one in their right mind would ever want to be the Cyprus system again, etc. We have a completely naked situation and we use this opportunity when we talk about one part, one segment of the National Bank of Serbia, to talk about the situation, about our seeing the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia and what it is now. That's right. The dinar's stable. Small deviations. Chuck, there's a nonsensical record. We have recorded a decline in the euro compared to the dinar. Everywhere in Europe, in the world, there are reverse processes, that domestic currency falls from the euro. With us, only the euro falls from the domestic currency. What does an average man think? So what's the problem with taking the money, going abroad and replacing that money for that weak euro? What's the problem? There's one problem. It's not technical, because it's essential. It's for domestic use. When you show up in Austria, Germany, and also in Greece, and in Bulgaria, they'll tell you -- it's certainly such a course, but we're sorry, we didn't adopt that monetary policy of your government, or your bank. So that's a quick check. If that were so stable, if it were so strong, if those lists were something that was reliable, the least problem would be to put the dinars, the domestic currency, you go singing, because every day, if you don't drop the euro rate relative to the dinar, then they're here somewhere, even. The reminders for what is said - for the science of the smart, we had this when Avramovic came and said - the relationship of the dinars and the stamps is one in the first place. It was a period of general national enthusiasm. How long did it last? It took just as long as the straws were to be emptied where people were leaving money, leaving foreign exchanges for God's sakes, for the worst of days. In Serbia, it is a tradition, and in many other countries -- leave it, put aside, no matter how stable the currency is, no matter how much you trust these banks, especially when they are foreign, it always separates in Serbia for God's sake. Avramovic knew, and those who then introduced the number of foreign exchanges within Serbia in households. The assessment, and today, is that at least three billion euros in Serbia have been set up in this way. It's easy to check, especially when there's a trade mark in the euro. It was easy to check where each bill is. The bill has its serial number. He puts himself in so that they can determine on the basis of that number where that bill is. About three billion. So, what's the best recipe? The best recipe is a stable course, and in the meantime you're starting to change prices. Here, now it's announced, in addition to all these increases, that the price of oil will change. I'm not spreading the story, we're just painting it to make it clear to people. What does that mean? That means chain reaction. Of course, there are those economists, those experts, experts who say the energy price can't affect other prices at all, which say that an increase in energy prices can't lead to inflation, there can't be any more significant shifts. There are such economists. We're not saying there isn't. Of course, we don't argue. Their persuasion, their theory and thesis, we don't dispute. There are little problems when it comes to establishing these criteria at some global or European level, but I hope that they will overcome it personally, because their knowledge and mind exceeds Serbia's frameworks, especially the space in which we are. They will quickly convince that the increase in energy prices does not affect other prices at all. That's their logic. But we Serbian radicals don't want to convince ourselves, but we don't accept that logic, because it's against every logic, and then you'll see that it's slowly moving and all the prices, moving the price with the maintenance of the salary, I won't say it at the lowest level, but right at the survival level. In order to pay taxes, obligations to the state, the people of the straws will have to get away with it. Especially when the end of the year comes, taxes are paid, what was left in the straw is extracted, popularly said, in order to make peace with the state. In case she doesn't settle down, you know how that story goes? In the end, it ends with the perpetrators. I feel that this is a little bit uncomfortable here for some because they prefer that we Serbian radicals, as opposition, begin to praise this suicidal economic policy that is being conducted in Serbia, and it is based on the fact that it is a colourful lie. You get into a circus, you get into a tent, and when you see all those magicians, it's nice for you. But you have to get out of that tent. We don't want to experience this harsh reality. I understand those colleagues who react in one way or another. They don't care. I'd like to change people's heads specifically, so I can put their heads on, get some rest from all this. In a way, I might have a perspective on being an exhibit at medical school, because it's a man's life in late years without a gram of brains. But let's not deal with other people, talk about what's the point. The bottom line is we need to take all these recent warnings seriously, where they convince us that it is impossible for Serbia to impose sanctions. Don't play with it. It's very, very possible, because those who lead you to power, those who finance you, they determine how that power will function. They have their goals. What you're thinking, it looks like an amateur walks in, a regular man in a ring with a heavy-class boxer, a professional. He's beaten up as much as that pro lets him. When will he have a knockout? Well, when a professional and who by nature is stronger, when he breaks it off, which would be said, and then the match ends. So is the game with the Americans. That's how it's gonna be. Therefore, all these stories that are related to large foreign reserves can serve as an example, but they are mostly based on reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63653	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Now the word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. Milorad Mircic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63654	Well, you voted to make me a proposal, colleague Mircic. A colleague of Mircic's, 2012 was amended and the National Bank Act was amended. I wish you'd been here at the National Assembly... Milorad Mircic: I wasn't because of you. ) If you had attended the adoption of this law, probably some views and opinions you have today, if you were present today, you probably wouldn't have agreed with them, because when the National Bank Act was changed, the first thing of the former regime was that the Republic of Serbia would be imposed sanctions, and the second thing was that as soon as the National Bank adopted the Law to start printing dinars and hyperinflation in the Republic of Serbia. That was in 2012. You can check that with your stenographic notes. Right now we're coming to the bottom of the matter, to reassure you of your fears. You have the right to worry about where foreign exchange reserves are, you have the right to take care of every dinar that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia make available to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but let's get out of the field of exclusive policy, and somehow make some, if possible, symbiosis of politics and profession. You first mentioned that NBS is one of the most profitable companies. You were also an MP when a bunch of former regimes were jumping on benches here because according to some accounting account, according to the Law on International Accounting and Standards, the National Bank was losing. When I say accounting loss, it means that the accounting units at the disposal of the National Bank are exclusively dinar and that the foreign reserves at the disposal of the People's Bank are converted into dinars, so if you had 13.14 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, then the euro goes down just one dinar compared to the dinar, you automatically have 13.14 billion dinars of losses. They were jumping there at the time, looking forward to it because the National Bank, there is a loss. And do you know how positive she would be? That the euro jumps from a dinar, a dinar or two per euro, so you have 13 to 26 billion euros in a positive account of the National Bank. That's what they did by 2012. The National Bank doesn't make any money on the dinar course, so let's get this straight. It has its own incomes set out in the National Bank Act, according to this very law by which we choose a member of the Council and there are more incomes. One is that it provides banks with certain services in terms of payment traffic, depositing bank funds, the task of domestic banks with NBS. This is the famous interest rate reference rate, etc. So these are all the revenues of the National Bank, but in one we have to agree – The National Bank is not the beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I completely agree and it would not be good if it were. But in order to know what these former regimes were doing until 2012 while we were dealing with ourselves as an opposition, you remember that period, I'm quite certain of that, they printed the money in two ways, and that's what the Governor's Council approved. Similarly chosen by the National Assembly and this Board of Governors, only now is not 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, is now 2019. What did they do then as a situation? They made one of their own “perpetum mobile” with business banks, all of which are both domestic and foreign. We can call them "bad banks". Remember the most ordinary dinar loan that cost between 35 and 45% on the annual level? I would like one of my fellow MPs to tell me, there are no former regimes, here I am asking you, colleague Mircic – where did the 35 to 45% interest end on an annual basis where the economy and the population were in debt? You think it ended up in foreign reserve? Here's what I'm saying is it's not. It ended in exotic destinations, which is now the small part that returns this Bastic, which was caught at the airport, it's just a small part, and foreign reserves have been shrinking. Let me remind you or ask you -- do you agree that this line is about 4.5 billion euros in four years that foreign exchange reserves have been sold to stabilise the rate of dinar, which rose from 78 dinars in August 2008 to 119,80 dinars? He's so grown up. Who's most responsible for that? We can say business banks, and why? Well, they were allowed by the National Bank then, why are they to blame? Blame the National Bank? Why, she was just at the politics of the former regime? What did we get as a consequence? Full system failure. First, the population was no longer able to repay those loans. When the population can't repay the loans, the next is the economy. When an economy can't repay loans, the next state. That's where they led us. Now, if we are no longer on that path that went to a complete disaster, and when Serbia is now, as far as its public finances and macroeconomic and monetary security are concerned, I assure you that your concern should be less than it was in 2011, in 2012 when you dealt with Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic. Milorad Mircic: Is that more important, I ask? What you're throwing, anyway, it's not nice, but good. That's what you've been dealing with, and the current governor is dealing with these problems that have been waiting for the Republic of Serbia or the SNS when it comes to power. There's still one big stranger, where they ended up with such enormous amounts that business banks charged on various loans? You've had the following situation so you can take a low-interest foreign exchange loan, but then somehow the National Bank stamps enough dinars to drop the rate of dinar compared to the euro, so return more. I'm talking all about facts, just reminding the citizens what it looked like by 2012, so in one day the national currency was losing money and two of its value, so foreign reserves were sold, and then there was no question of where foreign reserves were deposited, but whether we had enough of them to withstand speculations that had been brought by the former regime, now at the head of Dragan Gilas, and then it was going around the world again from these same foreign exchanges, Vuk Jeremic paid the most expensive hotels, and in the meantime nearly 400,000 people were out of work. I also like to touch on that story about how our foreign exchange reserves are increasing and how much their involvement is. I admit, it moves from three to four and a half billion euros year-on-year, but my colleague Mircic, so it was 2010 and 2011. Why wasn't the dinar course stable then? Why was inflation bigger then, I mean seven or eight times bigger than today? Because it wasn't run by the state in a responsible way. That was the problem. We can also talk about what our gross imports are, what our gross exports or net are, all we are, we can step up, but what's a fact is that in a nominal sense, the difference between exports and imports decreases from year to year because, like any responsible government, we know that these foreign reserves won't last forever. We want to start our country's business on economic, accurate policies and long paths. Now, we can also talk about what our own are, let's say, foreign investors that are improving the situation in our foreign reserves because they come here, buying equipment abroad, so that same equipment imports into Serbia, so they start doing some work, so weren't these foreign investors until about a few hours ago? They're good now and then. Now, if they're buying equipment, it was a crime before. Now that they're buying, bringing into Serbia, you know these are results that should not be attributed to the government of the Republic of Serbia at all, nor to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, nor the NBS. It's, like, a coincidence that all these circumstances are based on which we have one of these economic situations that we have today. I can't agree with that, and it just shows how important it is to run a state, run a state's economic policy, run a policy that has and competencies that the Central Bank has are very important, very complicated. Those who have no idea about it, they're dealing with the following things -- they're dealing with how much the governor's hair is, what his salary is, what it's like. No one wants to look the truth in the eyes that are the results of those organs. You know what? The people have already shown in the elections and 2014, 2016, 2017, they will also show in 2020 that they care about hairstyles do not matter to them, care about the salaries of others does not matter. It is important for them to see that in the Republic of Serbia today they live a little better than yesterday, and they know that tomorrow will be a little better to live than today. Those who close their eyes to it have a big problem because they will pass the time until they finally realize that all this is done by Aleksandar Vukic, Jorvanka Tabakovic and Ana Brnabic in the end is good for them and their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63655	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63656	I don't want to discuss some of the details listed by a colleague, but the truth is, it's often mentioned here in the past period when interest rates were enormously high compared to the current interest rate. Do not lose sight, gentlemen, that the funds employed by the Greek Government in 2009 were 30 and over 30% interest, as such conditions were on the market. These were high interest rates, enormously high interest rates, for a number of reasons. One reason is, precisely, because of uncertainty and ultimately, mistrust of the economic situation in certain countries, and that was quite clear. Now interest is at 1.5%. They're negative somewhere. They're negative in the west. They're at an annual level of 2%. But what's the point? The bottom line is that these favourable economic conditions are used to revive the domestic economy, to raise the economy. It's the only guarantee. These are all stories. Well, we're witnesses, why did I say that the National Bank of Serbia is the most profitable firm? Well, we have now been rebalanced that the National Bank has paid about 10m euros in some additional extraordinary revenues made on behalf of investments, foreign investments, as it is said, into the budget. See how much Elektroprivreda has paid, see how much he has paid Telekom, see how much public enterprises have paid at Serbia's level compared to the National Bank of Serbia, negligible or almost nothing. Telekom has an excuse there because a decision has been made to exploit these funds in some other way, but Elektroprivreda, it is a generator, it is a trigger, compared to the National Bank, minors that craftsmanship. One thing, dear fellow, you should understand. The public can comment on everything when it comes to public personality and when it comes to hairstyles and how you behave both yours and mine and anyone else, and especially the most prominent political figures, and don't take it as a counter-argument, whether it's positive or negative, but it's inappropriate, you have to agree that any official, so he was the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, at a time when the average salary, as you point out, is fighting to be 500 euros, has 5,000 euros a month. As far as I'm concerned, the directors of public enterprises receive as much money as they don't have classes from primary school to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63657	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63658	My colleague Marinkovic, I would use my time as a proponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63659	Here, you have both options. I just suggested one. Here you go, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63660	First, my colleague Mirčić, no more, I ask you, about this story that the capital was cheaper in 2009 and 2010 than it was in 2009 and 2010 on the world market today. It's not. So, before the global economic crisis broke out, that's what we're talking about in the late flight of 2008, the eurobor was moving about 3.45%, when the global economic crisis broke out to about 1.25%, with the outbreak of the Greek crisis being about 0.5%, 0.25%. That was 2010. There's so much today. That's not what I'm talking about. Let's not say that the world market borrowing prices were an excuse that banks here in Serbia behave the way they acted, and that the National Bank has noded and not only that, but it has helped them. That's the problem. We're talking about 35%, 45% on the annual interest level. Well, that's how much our population owed. Now imagine with the reference interest rate, so you know what the reference rate was then? From 14% to 16%. It's below 3% today. And the reference interest rate determines how much interest will be for the population and the economy, so the reference interest rate increased by the margin of banks. Well, just that the interest rates are down three, four, even more times, so where does that money end from the difference? He ends up with our citizens. He doesn't go to the bank anymore. It improved their standard of living. Well, our businesses, by the way, have more funds for investment, for new jobs. All of this was ruined by the period of 2012, because it was important that one sector only lived. I'm not sure they were doing it for nothing, absolutely not, it just seems to me. Well, remember how Shoskovic came to be governor. Well, it's not just a joke. He is the only one who supported this Danica Popovic, and he and Milojko Arsic, because she taught them that they should probably print dinars when there is a crisis. Well, there's no connection, it's the most likely to be the ones that are in debt in loans indexed in foreign currencies, but it'll improve our exports. Oh, look out for the rich. And what are the export impulses, the entrances? You mentioned the price of energy yourself. We oil derivatives in Serbia, or crude oil, do not have enough, we must import. I don't agree with the fact that energy prices don't affect inflation, so let me get this straight. It's affecting, and it's affecting. Now, imagine, if you print dinars, you knock down your national currency, you collect energy. Will your exports be more expensive? Well, of course he will. Well, any raw materials used for export, and imports are also collected. These are the stories of the charlatan Danica Popovic writes. But she taught Milojko Arsic and Shoskovic. She taught them. You can see for yourself that she was doing it wrong. There was a master here. We don't want to make mistakes. For example, you mentioned this Labus yourself. They knew how to do it. Jelasic, who was governor, and he, in the end, fled to "Hypo-alpe Adria Banka" etc. Not to mention everything they did. Now, on the other hand, you have more responsible leadership in the National Bank, more responsible leadership in the Republic of Serbia. Don't worry so much. Criticize, be ready. Every bad move we make, we're always ready to put up with criticism, etc. But relax a little. The more beautiful times go for Serbia, the better times go for every member of our family since they left power and since the Republic of Serbia has led in a responsible manner, and this was the first one to have the courage to start and prove that it is possible for Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63661	Thank you. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63662	Thank you, colleague, for this advice to relax. I think it's well-intentioned. What he says – a safe hand leads me to ruin. It's interesting that it's always spoken, returned and compared to past times, which isn't unusual, but some names are listed. But you forgot two names, the names of the two governors who were current with you in power. One famous Mladjan Dinkic, who was governor, entered with long pipes into the National Bank and to this day there is no telling how much money he robbed, and the other is Kori Udovicki. She was your minister at the government for local self-government. What else is interesting? How did you not remember in that comparison that you might not in any way irritate the current President of the Board of Governors, Professor Stanic? How come you didn't think of it, do you happen to or on purpose, that's not what I'm getting into? It's not a bad thing to make comparisons sometimes, but there's talk about what's going to happen tomorrow, what can we expect. We have something here we can't claim to be forever. If we don't turn around to invest this money, the potential, the capital, which is in the name of the currency he has, to invest it in our economy, there's nothing, believe me, there's nothing. We need to increase investment, we need to increase, we need to help our domestic companies, so you're aware of the fact, you talk to these people every day, they don't even have a battery anymore, they don't have the means to pay back. How do they work? Well, they can't work. How do they export? Well, it's impossible. It's impossible to export, and we need to use all these foreign exchanges that flow, as we've told you, from the four billion figures. What do you think these foreign banks would be here if there wasn't so much inflow in this Serbia? Everyone's grateful. What do they care? They're throwing money out. They don't invest that much in the economy. You praise them as if they were domestic banks, praise them still, but always argument the same or similar - how did these work? How was Dinkic doing? Was he your coalition partner? Yes, it is. Did he run your finances? Did he tell you how to do it? Did he set you up with monetary policy? Did Dinkic burn and burn? Is that what you're telling me about the current governor? Don't tell me, I don't want to get into this debate, because it would be embarrassing to say how it is and how it's been thinking, awkward for many. Of course, in agreement with the government, there is politics and you are now accusing Šoškovic who has both knowledge and proof. After all, he's a professor at the Faculty of Economics. Don't, so you appreciate this man. Veroljub Arsic: What did he prove? No, I'm telling you, the least I appreciate is his political definition, the least I appreciate is his political determination. Don't humiliate me like that. Don't, pal, it's not good. You deny everything, throw everything under your feet, which you would say. Don't, Mr. Arsic. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, A colleague atlagic can help you. He's, like, perspective. If he went to sea, if they rented it, he'd make money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63663	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63664	To be clear, Mladjan Dinkic has not run monetary policy since the SNS is in power, so to be clear, first thing. The other thing, like the minister, has been in that government for so long, and let's get this straight. I don't think he's put two years together, no matter what two years, a year, 12, 13, months. That's how much Dinkic put together, as far as he's concerned. As for Shoskovic, you know, we talked about the results, I'm interested in the results. While Soskic was governor of the National Bank, foreign exchange reserves were sold and the exchange rate of the euro increased compared to the dinar. So it's something that gives me the right to know, in addition to the theoretical knowledge of the economy, nothing else, and if he knew and allowed it to happen, then it's a serious moral problem. So you're helping others steal to put a line in your career as governor, and ruining seven, eight million people doesn't matter. That doesn't count, it's important that he was governor, so he resigned afterwards. For what? What was not controlled, let's say, by Agrobank, so the same Council adopted the report on the liquidity of the banking sector, among other things, the revision of Agrobank's 2011 business. Watch this, punks, what it looks like when they play, from a negative report they turn it into a positive, and then, in order not to make an even bigger fuss about the election campaign, they broadcast state records of value with a 22% interest to cover the loss that Agrobank made. I'm sorry, he's a really good expert. Anyone in that way can be a good expert, both he and all those who were at that moment around him. Why should we talk about what they were doing before, this former regime led by Dragan Dilas, Bastic, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, who didn't even know he was president of the Republic? I thought Kostunica was uninformed, but it turns out Boris is still the most uninformed. Because citizens need to have something to compare with when they decide who to trust for the next four years or some period to which a new congregation assembly is elected, or some new government. Why do I have the right to be optimistic? No offense, I'm telling you to relax. In 2012, inflation was over 14.15%. Today she's in the planned frames about 2%. Is that a good result? Yes, it is. Is the course of the dinar almost identical to that of the same course of the dinar, which was even slightly better on August 5, 2012,? In 2012, were there 27% of the unemployed citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It was. Is it about 10% today? Yes, it is. Is Corridor 10 finally finished? Yes, it is. Are we going to talk about how many times it's been started since Milosevic's time, so now we've started new corridors, and one part of the bypass around Belgrade ends, etc.? My colleague Mircic, you know, the National Bank reports on his financial operations to the Finance Committee, submits a report and a governor, but that is only to determine the legality of spending, the availability of money and the economic rules of how they ran the National Bank. If you want the Republic of Serbia to lose the credit rating it has today, you can freely activate foreign reserves, whether for public works, whether for loans, or for incentives, you will see, credit rating or credit rating of the Republic of Serbia will fail significantly, because in general, for the duties that we have, in part, guarantee foreign reserves, guarantee, and must return the government from the budget or whoever raises the credit, that we do not now determine what purpose these loans can be. Don't play with... It could have, it could have really been during the Communist Union. We had a little fun at that time, but it was a time when you took a loan and when the time came after two or three years to get it back, it didn't amount to as much as one coffee you'd pay at work. Those times can't go back. Let's finally get out of those times. Foreign exchange reserves have their purpose, the Republic of Serbia's budget has its own purpose, and as far as the economy is concerned, I have provided only a few data. It will take me a lot more time to just talk a little bit more about the results the Republic of Serbia has had since when the Republic of Serbia is led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63665	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63666	Dear Vice President, I have no intention of leading the polemics, but I will not answer to insults from pure peace. That's what he says about those who insult. But while we were already in charge of the governor of Shoskovic and those defending him, just to warn them that when he was governor of the National Bank, he was responsible for 460 million dinars along with former Minister Dragan Sutanovac, the State Auditory Institution, I spoke here several times in the past and present term. Let them defend them because they're no better than he is. That's what it says about them and their values, and that's what the citizens will say in the next election. If they catch the census, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63667	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63668	Who about what, you fellow Arsic about the communists? You, about communism and the communists. The current government in China is ideological and otherwise communist. Right? Is it irrefutable that China is taking over the primate more and more when it comes to the world's economy and finance? Right? What does this have to do with social order and the ideological determination of those in power? When you're using something to eventually reduce or ultimately humiliate, which I don't believe is your intention, don't always call on it. Let me tell you, the most capable personnel in the banking sector, and that can be confirmed by the current governor, are the ones who were in that regime both in America and England. One of the names, from the pietate to that woman, is Borka Vukic. Someone threw Slobodan Milosevic, too, is Slobodan Milosevic. But they worked in the west and all those systems knew. Look, you here as an argument state something that is true that inflation is two, 2.5%, but find me a country in the region where it's bigger. Find me a country in a region that has inflation problems, in Europe that has inflation problems. There isn't. There is no country, and even this unfortunate northern Macedonia, if I may say so, neither has it since it has completely failed, bankruptcy, and even Albania, because it is a policy that is led beyond the influence of both ours and those who are in other countries. It's a monetary policy in the world that's being run. You're talking about interest, but one thing you're losing sight of. You want to replace the thesis to impose here something that we Serbian radicals advocate, which is next. That we advocate that foreign exchange reserves be used in the economy. No, Mr. Arsic, I'm going to slowly try to act educationally on you. Where, on behalf of the evidence, foreign exchange funds are pooled in the name of the investment, the funds are mostly used, as all indicators indicate, to increase foreign reserves. We say – no, they should be used to accelerate the development of domestic economy. That's what to do. You have something, if you're looking at next year's budget, you have something far from what was earlier warning, now it's alarming. This story you have been telling in continuity for several years, that imports have increased compared to exports, in the name of imports of goods and equipment, you have in the budget already next year. That difference goes from five billion to over six billion. You can't explain it like that. It's a danger to the whole country, to society. Danger, if you grow import. That equipment, what you're saying, that if it was so much invested, it would be an economic boom. Understand once, so we can't believe that light of the future. That bright future or light at the end of the tunnel can be for some other occasions. As far as these remarks are concerned, whether someone crosses the censorship or not, that's what citizens decide. Fortunately, the citizens decide. They're going to say who's going to be there in the next election. To decide individuals who often have it in their mouth, God asks which party, for they have a wide range of parties. It can't count how many parties have changed. So we're deafening ourselves from such a finding. We're going to the election, how the people are going to vote, we don't know that. We assume you don't know either. Whether to vote for the SRS to be ruling or opposition, we will see whether someone will cross the censorship or not, but just one thing don't forget, here in this House are the ugliest words, the greatest insults to the greatest life of the writer Serbia has, Matic Beckovic. If I were you, I'd find it appropriate to apologize to that living legend, a man of such size, that you have no idea what you're saying now. Here is your board as a sign and a memory that a great man, Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, sat here, and you wash the floor, wipe with the name Matija Bećković. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63669	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Marco Atlagic: Replica. ( ) After Prof. Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63670	I really don't know what Matija Bećkovic and Ivo Andric have in common. That's what my colleague Atlagic will explain, I suppose. My colleague Mircic should know that NR China is in its economic development rules and mistakes. They admit it. They tried to have those Soviet models, they didn't do so well. Later they tried a similar model that was here at SFRY, and that didn't work out very well for their colleague Mircic. Then they built their own model that suits them. They showed that they were more capable in many things than Western civilization and made a successful economy, but they learned from their mistakes. So, if nothing else, let's do a little digging of China, and let's not repeat the mistakes we had during the time, let's say those famous SFRYs. You mentioned inflation, and since I've known about myself, I've been living in some kind of inflation all the time, so remember my colleague Mircic, in the '80s, it seems to me that there was a price freeze, so administratively trying to stop inflation. Remember then, before the breakup of that same great Yugoslavia, Ante Markovic, so he was not the only one who fixed the course of the dinar, remember, in 1994, before him did Ante Markovic, there was one shilling one dinar, if I'm not mistaken. Something like that. So they were frozen and paid. These were all administrative measures when the state interfered with the economy and it proved to be not good. The state should be the regulator, not the one who runs the economy. The Americans had their opinions, so they made a financial crisis in 2008, so it turned out there that the Fed must be some kind of bank regulator and everything else. So don't get into any experiences that aren't so far away that we don't remember their consequences, but to say that increasing foreign reserves is very dangerous for the Republic of Serbia and that we shouldn't brag about it, I don't see anything dangerous at first. It was dangerous when these Tadics, Gilasovci, Bastaki and everyone else printed money and sold foreign exchange reserves. It's dangerous, and it's not dangerous when you buy foreign exchanges from the market. At one point you said that the money from the evidence, as I understood it and from the imports of equipment, ends up in foreign exchange reserves, I think you said that. I have to tell you that's not true, it doesn't end directly. First, one part, a good part of the equipment imported into Serbia is not paid at all from Serbia, but one who buys it at its prices in the country from where it comes from, but the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is no longer doing exchange jobs. The National Bank doesn't do trading jobs anymore, that's what exchange offices do and business banks do. How does the National Bank get to the foreign reserve? Well, when business banks lack dinars, and they estimate it's not good to borrow from the National Bank, the exchanges they have to sell to the National Bank. That's how it works today. It's not exactly the 1980s and 1990s when he was standing around each corner, often several of them, and yelling, "devices, foreign exchanges." That time has passed. It's the 20th century. So, the National Bank doesn't do trading business, that's what exchange offices and business banks do. A business bank where there aren't enough dinars to sell its foreign reserve to the National Bank and these foreign exchange reserves are ours. If that same bank wants its foreign exchanges back, it'll have to give us back our dinars, then there's no jump, no loss of national currency value. Those are some rules, let's adopt them. No more, please, we can't compare to the surrounding countries. None of these countries in the environment, and even you mentioned this Macedonia, had the most terrible economic sanctions Serbia has experienced. They did not experience a criminal aggression against the Republic of Serbia in 1999 by NATO and cannot be compared to them. Do you know how great a success is when, despite the sanctions we've had, the bombings we've had, we've got better results than them. Give a look at the truth, Serbia is a better place today, and it will be an even better place to stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63671	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63672	Your Honor, Vice President, I know who was concerned and there is no dilemma, and I will repeat now. When it comes to Matija Bećkovic, let me say what I said in this tall House, a man, even if an academic called himself, who did not come to the celebration of 800 years of self-certification of the SPC just because the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic received a high recognition, is not his place there. In 1993, the man said, and it is in books written by his party boss and my former boss, my party, quote: "The people who voted for Slobodan Milosevic deserve nothing more than to bomb themselves," finished the quote, so that I do not quote him to look at the page. Now, if that's a role model, let them be a role model, they'll never be a role model to me. It's a man who supported the option that my country broke, and I don't know if his SRJ, and later the SCG. Is it true, gentlemen, People's MPs or not? This man writes “we will have more daughters. ” Who's he gonna have a daughter of? Is it Serbs or others? When it was to protect Montenegro as he acted, would you like me to quote every sentence of his? You know very well, it's not Matija Bećković, but Aleksandar Vucic, say it openly, because he's got a confession to 800 years of SPC self-certification, but the spraying people are also rising with it by us members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63673	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Mr. Mircic, right to the replica, to the presentation of Veroljub Arsic or to the presentation of Professor Atlagic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63674	I don't want any more of it; for in the people there is one; with whom are you, so are you. But let me just say the similarities between Matija Beckovic and Ivo Andric. When Ivo Andric returned to the address of many in then-Yugoslavia, then there was a person named Miroslav Krleža. Even Branko Ćopić and others write, as Krleža literally treated Ivo Andric as a dog. That's the kind of relationship he had with Ivo Andric. Maybe if Krleža had changed his attitude alive now, but it's hard to believe. We can agree or disagree, as it used to be with political views and definitions of both Montenegrin and Andric and Mattija Bećkovic, who is the greatest living writer, but we must not take the right to deny man what he has done. It's very important to the nation. The fact that he expressed his political position not to come to one event is his view. Someone may respect him or not, but he has nothing against Serbia, against the Serbs, and having some respect for Montenegro, take the debate a little bit seriously, that kind of debate. You know, these are people who are forever, they mark us as their contemporaries. At least don't go so far in this lofty home, that a man who is forbidden to enter his place, we now pronounce someone who is against the people of the Spruce and Serbia. They didn't tell him his last name. Secondly, it fits into all those passwords that are now being written, as they say, Mlada Vojvodina writes in Vojvodina – Matija returns home. If a great man like Matija Beckovic returns, he will have to go to Sainta, because he was born there. At least have that kind of respect. Of course, I have no intention of going so far as to defend anyone's political views, their evaluations, his evaluations and Professor Lomper's were at the time not to attend. Whether it's because the president of the state got the medal or not, it's your right to interpret whatever you want, I don't deny you anything when you're thinking, but don't go so far as to kill something that we should be proud of, to create that man. You know, I'm one of those people whose destiny is that I have a birthplace in my personal file and I'm sure as hell going to that place of birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63675	Thank you, colleague Mircic. We've gone far from the subject. Right on line, Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63676	Dear Vice President, these are imputing something I didn't say. I do not want to talk about his creation, the academician Matija Bećkovic, that will say history, the future, those who come behind us and about him and everything else. But what makes it different from the one I often quote, which said the same thing in 1993, that Serbia should be bombed along with Margaret Thatcher and others. So that's what it's all about, not just political belongings, but a relationship to the country and its hope, and my hope. So, and this whether he expressed his personal relationship with the President of the Republic, that's why he didn't come. I'm not surprised he didn't come, precisely because of this 1993 attitude in a book by Professor Vojislav Seselj, that I don't read the page spoken, while he was at DOS Matija Bećković. His right to political commitment has no right either he or they to touch the country. To say that Serbia needs to be bombed because the citizens of the Republic gave a political option to someone, at the time Slobodan Milosevic or I don't know who. If he had been a true patriot, he would have gone to defend him there, because it is known why Slobodan Milosevic ended up in The Hague because of what his party chief ended up in The Hague. That's what we have to say for the sake of truth, for the sake of justice and for the sake of history and for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63677	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. We're moving on with our work. Do any of the authorised representatives, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go, Mrs. Charp.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63678	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a motion for a decision on the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. Last June of the month, on June 15th 2018, we elected the governor and vice governors of the NBS. That we made a great choice of witnessing the results of nbs' work over the last year. Ms Tabakovic was re-elected in 2018 solely for the reason that in the period from 6 August 2012 to 15 June 2018, she achieved huge results by working and managing one of the most important institutions in the country and made it possible for Serbia's picture to change completely in the world when it comes to financial stability. Today we have an economically strong and financially stable state that is attractive to foreign investment. For us economists, but also for all MPs of the ruling majority, it is really easy and it is our honor to talk about the results of the NBS work. We really have something to boast about, and that the citizens of Serbia understand perfectly what we are talking about because the results of the NBS work are making daily life easier for all of us citizens. The job of the NBS is to establish and maintain price stability and maintain the stability of the financial system in general. Just as Mrs Tabakovic's arrival at the head of the NBS has become perfectly clear to the citizens what the price stability and stability of the domestic currency means in planning the future and in making important life decisions. There were some irresponsible people, such as Dejan Šoštic, Mladjan Dinkic, Radovan Jelasic and others, who showed that no such important institution should be managed and that monetary policy should not be maintained. By 2012, the inflation rate was also moving 13%, not to mention huge exchange rate fluctuations. The rate of inflation of 11, 12 and 13% annually is the result of an irresponsible policy of the previous government. The previous government has raised expensive loans abroad to pay pensions and salaries, in the absence of production. Every growth in demand was overpriced. Therefore, the increase in pensions and salaries from unrealistic sources of funding has only pushed inflation forward, and citizens in Serbia have been living harder and harder. When we compare the average rate of dinar on 31.12.2004, which was 78.89 dinars for one euro with the average rate of dinar on 6.8.2012, which amounted to 118.57 dinars for one euro, it is clear that over a period of seven and a half years the dinar has weakened the euro by over 40 dinars. When Mrs Tabakovic took over as governor of NBS, the middle course was 118.57 dinars per euro. Today, after more than seven years, after seven and a half years, not that domestic currency devaluation, i.e. dinar weakness, has strengthened the euro by 1.1 dinar. What are we talking about? The exchange rate is never more stable than today, and the dinar is never stronger. Now there are some economic experts who say we should go for the devaluation of our domestic currency, that we need to weaken our domestic currency, our dinar, to encourage exports, to stimulate production. First, I don't know where these economic experts were until 2012, and secondly, neither I nor any of us here noticed that the previous government by devaluation of dinars, i.e. by weakening the value of domestic currency fuelled exports, encouraged the expansion of production and employment. On the contrary, just by 2012, we had the largest number of closed but still robbed factories and the largest number of fired workers, not to mention their interventions on the foreign market. They purposelessly spent foreign reserves and intervened on the foreign exchange market only if they managed to sell some public enterprise below the price. Such interventions would be followed by a short-term revaluation, then an even greater devaluation of the domestic currency, and so on to the complete weakness of our dinar. The businessmen did business until 2012 in total chaos, in unpredictable conditions, where they literally couldn't decide today for tomorrow, but only today for today, not to talk about planning and making decisions for the longer term. That was almost unimaginable. Today we have a domestic currency that is stable and a situation where I can freely say that the exchange rate is completely neutral when investment decisions are made. No one's talking about course differences today because course differences just don't exist anymore. When it comes to strong domestic currency, it cannot be bad for either the economy or the citizens of Serbia, citizens have a higher standard of living because it is more valuable today than seven years ago. In the case of businesses, if raw materials and re-promaterials are supplied abroad, they generate savings because they buy raw materials and re-promaterials at a more favourable exchange rate, and if raw materials and re-promaterials are supplied on the domestic market and exports of finished products abroad, they generate income called VAT refund. On the other hand, the state stimulates businesses with favourable loans to invest in modern technologies, thus affecting the growth of productivity of production, and thus reducing costs, which, for the ultimate result, has either higher margins in businessmen or a reduction in the prices of finished products. Thus, the hypothesis of individual economic analysts and experts that they should go for the devaluation of the domestic currency in order to encourage exports do not drink water at all. Citizens paid an extremely high price for irresponsible policies and Radovan Jelasic and Dejan Šoškovic and Mladjan Dinkic and others, and we saw this best in the case of overindebted citizens based on residential loans indexed in Swiss francs. The problem has managed to resolve our authority led by Aleksandra Vukic, by allowing citizens to convert these expensive loans into the euro with 38% of the remaining debt. In August 2015, a strategy was adopted to address problematic loans where business banks are encouraged to resolve such loans through the reduction of mandatory reserves and other measures implemented by the NBS. Fantastic results have been achieved and the participation of problematic loans in total loans has been drastically reduced. In 2012, the share of problematic loans was 18.63%, in 2018 5.7%, with a tendency to further reduce and completely eradicate problematic loans in total loans. What is the situation today in Serbia and whether foreign investors have confidence in investing in us can best be seen in the case of last week. On November 5th, the Republic of Serbia achieved historic economic success in the international financial market in London by broadcasting a 10-year Eurobond of 550m euros, at an interest rate of only 1.25%. This low interest rate is the result of the huge interest of foreign banks, insurance companies, foreign investment funds for our government bonds, and that is because of the financial stability we have today in the Republic of Serbia. Only seven years ago, securities were broadcast on the international financial market in London at an interest rate of 12.99%. In this way, for the second time this year, for the second time in June, the London Stock Exchange managed to replace part of the expensive loan in dollars with significantly cheaper euro loans. The benefits of these transactions are actually all in Serbia, both citizens and states and businesses, because our funding costs are today the lowest. Our funding costs are much lower than seven years ago. Serbian citizens today have a monetary and fiscally strong and stable state. The risk premium today is ten times smaller than seven years ago, and that means that every economic operator, every firm in Serbia today is worth ten times more than seven years ago. Serbia's credit rating by the FIC was estimated by a BB plus rating, therefore higher than last year, with a stable outlook for further improvement. What does this grade really mean? It means that we have reduced public debt and that today our public debt is close to 50% of GDP, and seven years ago, the public debt amounted to 76% of GDP, which means that we have improved the currency structure of the public debt and this is by means of an early purchase of dollar bonds in June and November of this year totaling more than 1.5 billion euros. It means we have a low inflation rate. Our inflation rate in August was 1.3%. At the annual level, it is 2.2%, and the inflation rate of the previous regime has moved up to 13%, as I have already stated. Also, we have a low interest rate of 2.5% today, and in 2012 it was 11.25%. Serbia's foreign exchange reserves continued to grow, and in August, foreign exchange reserves amounted to 13.1 billion euros and 6.3 billion euros in 2012. So we did more than double our foreign reserve. We have a record inflow of foreign direct investment and we are an absolute leader in the region. We were able to cut the unemployment rate more than half. The general government budget surplus in 2017 and 2018 was 0.9% of GDP, and in 2012 we had a deficit of 6.3% of GDP. Therefore, the results achieved by the responsible policy, the implementation of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation measures are indeed commendable. As a proud Serbian citizen, I want to take the opportunity to thank Mrs Tabakovic and her team for establishing a fully secure electronic banking in Serbia. You know, when professors 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 lectured us at the Faculty of Economics and told us about electronic commerce and electronic banking, students were the most difficult lessons in economic literature, because we should have learned something more about children's imagination than reality in Serbia, regardless of what both electronic trade and electronic banking was largely applied in both America and Western Europe. Today, thanks to the president of the state, thanks to government members, the National Bank of Serbia, electronic trade, electronic banking, mobile banking, e-Government, have become an integral part of the lives of all of us citizens. None of us have to wait in long lines on the counters anymore and waste our precious time. The reason for this is software applications that fully protect us when using both payment and credit cards. In 2018, more than a million and 800,000 citizens bought online. In 2019, that figure will certainly be exceeded. Also, we managed to make more revenue in the budget than planned and this year we were able to get more revenue from the budget from January 2014 and this has just made it possible for us to start this month, since November, to have increased salaries and pensions. While the policy of the previous government has been followed by numerous affairs, this government has only results that can envy many developed countries. All we can remember is how they destroyed our Social Accounting Service, which was founded back in 1962. We had the best organized service to control the payments and to protect both citizens and the state. She protected the citizens by controlling employers in the collection of contributions to pension and health insurance. So, the SDK made sure that the citizens had health insurance, had certified health books, and on the other hand it made sure that after they retired, the citizens of Serbia would achieve the pension amount in line with the employment incomes. However, the previous regime did not like that anyone was controlling them and the Service was, as I said, 31. 12. In 2002, in a humiliating way, they shut down. From that moment on, in our country, in the Republic of Serbia, we are moving to carry out robbery privatisations, where on one side we have individuals who have maximum wealth, boasted, and on the other hand we have a mass of fired workers and citizens in Serbia, who have remained on the street, without work, without certified health books, without basic living conditions. We remember the case of the National Savings Bank, which was founded in December 2001, under strange circumstances. The name - National, was passed by the law, in order to get the impression that it was a state institution, regardless of the founders of the National Savings Bank were 13 private legal entities. It was only November 2003 that the state took part in the secondary sale of shares, buying 21 shares from the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Co-operation, and gained as much as 13% of the stakes owned by the National Savings Bank. But it certainly did not prevent the previous regime from being awarded to use illegally, contrary to the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, the National Savings Officer of a fully equipped room, completely free of charge, then already destroyed the SDK, or Social Accounting Service. Because of such affairs and such irresponsible decisions, the people lost their jobs and threatened the state with bankruptcy. You know, 20 minutes is very little for me to do all the good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank have done for citizens and Serbia in the past seven years, but 20 minutes is also very little for me to bring out all the affairs of the previous government. Here today, in the absence of a political programme, they want to challenge instability to get their hands on a full state register. Those from the Alliance with Serbia to think of citizens in Serbia would not insult women, would not call for lynch and hanging, would not prevent citizens from doing their job, would not break traffic signs in Serbia. Simply, they would not spend money on Serbian citizens by boycotting parliament's work, not boycotting the state register and not boycotting salaries and travel. In this way, all those who support the SNS insult a large number of citizens in Serbia, and would like to rule those same citizens. Well, you know, there's no case in the world that part of the opposition is asking for a postponement of regular elections to prepare for these same elections and come out. They can look for whatever the Serbian citizens want, they just don't want them. What Serbian citizens want in the coming period is an economy that is absolutely resistant to external earthquakes, Serbian citizens want a high standard of living and quality living conditions, which is what makes it possible for SNS. Thank you to the NBS team for caring responsibly for all our citizens' money. The NBS is often said to be a state banker, and our National Bank led by Mrs Tabakovic is also a good banker. That's what the results I've been talking about testify to. The SNS parliamentary group will support Mr Nikola Martinovic's re-election as member of the NBS Council, because only teamwork, led by Mrs Tabakovic, will continue to break all financial stability records in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63679	Thank you, Mrs. Charp. We now move to the list, therefore, order of MPs according to the application for a word in a single search according to the motion for a decision of the 11th agenda. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of the Board of Governors is very important, as is the quality of its members. For us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the general issue of banking is of paramount importance, especially for us in Sandzak, even for us Muslims. As it is known that Muslims have a problem with the interest business of banks, and in view of the fact, which we have talked about earlier, that Serbia has wide opened the door to Halal standard in terms of production, in terms of nutrition, in terms of trade in various products, which represents a very significant step in Serbia's opening up to all its citizens, respecting the specificities of religious and moral standards to which Muslims, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and, on the other hand, the overall opening of Serbia to the Muslim world, which, as you know, has produced extremely good results in terms of new investments that we have had from the United Arab Emirates, by the Republic of Turkey and investors from other Muslim countries. I am convinced that Serbia has matured to take another step towards opening space for Islamic banking, i.e. to open at least one, for starters, an Islamic bank which I am sure would have been a very serious motive for investing by Muslims within Serbia itself, but also by very numerous and very wealthy Muslim, or Sandzak, or Bosniak diaspora, where we have more than a million people outside Serbia, among whom individuals ultra-rich, multimillionaires are very interested, and because of their religious beliefs they seek space for investment in accordance with Islamic norms. Islamic banking is not only developed in the Islamic world, it is also the Western world, almost all the major financial centres have recognized the chance in this and mainly opened serious Islamic banks. Of course we're just opening this topic. We know that he is not the governor, nor his Council who can respond directly to this initiative, but this is, above all, a recommendation for Parliament to consider legislation, and it is certainly of great importance that the Board of Governors, i.e. the Governor himself, actually understands the importance of this initiative and thus enables another new wave of investment in this country to be made possible. Not only that, but to simply be another message to Muslims in both this country and the region, but also across the Islamic world. Islamic banking is no special bogeyman. So, here we have only one key, important difference, which is that Islamic laws and regulations prohibit interest-making and Islamic banks find out the non-academic or unscamatic business mode that takes place in a way similar to investment funds where the investor, therefore, or the owner of the money invested in a particular one, so the bank does not get profit at a fixed interest, but carries the risk along with the bank for money and profit outcome, that is, the profit in which that money is invested. So that's the only difference, the rest moving according to the usual banking rules. Given that we have very successful experience in both Western financial centres and numerous Islamic banks, I think this would be of great importance for Serbia, so with the support of the election of a member of the Board of Governors and other activities concerned by the Governor and his Council, I consider the currentisation of this topic to be very important, even sharing confidence that, as for now, the initiatives of a similar kind, both Parliament and Governor and the Ministry of Finance and others, will have understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63681	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. Now the word has been made by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. He's not there. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63682	Thank you. As you have had the opportunity to hear, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party also support this decision. What I want to point out to this occasion concerns a little more attention that the National Bank and Governor, the Board of Governors, should address in the course of citizenship education on some of the dangers that come from banks. We are witnessing a quality relationship between the state and the NBS and the governor, when it comes to loans in the Swiss francs, but these are not the only challenges facing citizens. Unfortunately, in smaller environments and environments where banking is not so much, there is no such tradition as in larger environments, fraud and what concerns the system of banking business is very common. It may be legally formal, however, under the law, it is not fair. That's why we had cases and tragic consequences of credit consumers who couldn't get through to the end of all those petty scams when they signed the contract, and they weren't able to pay off or bring out those wars, so unfortunately some of them and ended their lives in a really scary way, really impossible to deal with all those challenges they were facing. Therefore, it would be very important for the NBS and Governor, the Board of Governors may make a little more educational space and to explain to an ordinary citizen all of those things that are in banking a trade element, which concerns banks in particular, and those who come on the side, can very easily introduce an ordinary man into some unfavourable situation and thus take away the possibility of giving him real repayment of his wars and thus can achieve some need that he entered into such an arrangement with the bank. So this is something that is very often encountered in the field, with which a large number of citizens are dealt. Some manage to fight, however, I think there is a key factor in a slightly greater education and that the National Bank can and can do much to help, as it has done in several cases so far. Therefore, it would be important for state banks to be more present in smaller areas, not to leave citizens simply to be able to co-operate with private and foreign banks, because they were very often deceived. For example, they had a number of major affairs when it came to private banks and foreign banks, which disappeared from the market after a large number of life-saving citizens, for the savings that were related to possibly schooling children, for the treatment of children, for some special needs. Of course, today is a very different situation, that the National Bank and the Governor have made great efforts not to have such things. However, there are still smaller areas of such cases, so it would be extremely important and a particular proposal, to raise awareness of ordinary citizens in such a way as to perhaps focus some specific educational and propaganda criteria, attention on citizens and to be more careful about these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63683	Thank you, Mr. Fehratovich. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63684	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about selecting a member of the Board of Governors, we need to know that the National Bank of Serbia, as the central bank, is the most important institution in the service of citizens and businesses. What is current these days is information that the gross foreign reserves of the National Bank of Serbia have continued to grow and have reached 13.5 billion euros, which is 203 million more than in 2000, since the data were kept on it. From the beginning of this year to October, gross foreign exchange reserves have increased by 2.23 billion euros, attributed to the activities of the National Bank of Serbia, through intervention of foreign exchange purchases on the domestic foreign exchange market. The central bank estimated that this is the best way to increase the reserve because it is not about borrowing. The state is also successfully deleveraging on the basis of loans and securities of value, which also has a major impact on the better standard of living of citizens, as there are no more problems created by the irresponsible government policy by 2012. What is important is that the value of the dinar at the monthly level is unchanged compared to the euro, and the National Bank of Serbia was able to intervene on the interbank foreign exchange market by buying and selling foreign exchanges in order to mitigate higher rate oscillation. Due to important issues such as monetary policy or financial stability, it is important that the leadership of the National Bank of Serbia and in terms of members of the Board of Governors be suitable for the National Bank of Serbia to use its powers in full capacity. By implementing monetary and foreign policy, foreign reserve management, ensuring the stability of the financial system and payment traffic in the country, there are only some activities of the National Bank of Serbia that must continue to be carried out in quality and efficiency. In this connection, I will support a proposal for a member of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Board in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63685	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have in this second debate a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia Board of Governors Committee, and the position of the SRS was also when the law was passed on to the National Bank of Serbia, that in the part of the management and supervisory role it would be just some letter on paper, and that the National Bank of Serbia, although under the Constitution and by law it has its functional, institutional, allegedly independent role, in the right sense of the word is not. Mr Marinkovic, you, as well as Serbian citizens, later and as an active politician witness that from 2000 to today we in Serbia have changed the governor as one country, I think in Europe, and that this is an unrecorded case from Dusan Vlatkovic in 2000 to Jorgovanka Tabakovic, seven governors. Now that you have managed to be the governor of the National Bank of Serbia in the second term, you have probably thought as in some countries with a stable and truly independent role of the Central Bank, which is not the case in Serbia, which is not the case, which is longer the governor, whether Mr Marinkovic, is in that position, it is also the control and independent role of the Central Bank stronger, but we cannot compare the time of the Weifert who has been governor for 26 years and that time of Serbia as it is today. Here, not that this truly degutant influence of the SNS is expressed on the choice of governors and on all these ruling functions, but it is quite unclear for us Serbian Radicals, as you, as you at all as representatives of the legislative authority, I address both you and the largest ruling parties, and to you who support the SNS, is it not abnormal if we are the highest legislative authority, that the National Bank of Serbia through intermediaries, and these are the members of the Governors' Council to report on their work to us, is it according to the law voted by the National Assembly, did it respond in time, did it perform its supervisory function, how the governor works, because the National Bank of Serbia, that they know the citizens next to this Council, whose member, or re-election, also has its executive body as an executive function and governor? Instead of having continuous communication as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not only through those periodic reports that are being submitted to us and that at all times we can react and ask that in a particular situation of protection and banks, domestically, first of all, only this Post Office, Mrs Petrovic, and all others, here since 2011, four more have failed, which had majority state capital, i.e. are no longer under that name and with that capital. It cost citizens 800m euros. Not to mention the destruction of Dinkic's model, to return to that period, the largest Serbian banks that have been liquidated and which some of them still have a basis for working today, because they also have their accounts and their own capital to enable them to benefit, we talked about it 15 days ago on another agenda point, but who cares. Now, let's go back to what is most important to us, the MPs. It is the supervisory and control role of the National Bank of Serbia, as the central banks over the work of banks in Serbia, because we account for citizens. Today someone here has said – you will see who will and how to pass the election. You know what? You don't listen to what the people say and if you're not every day among people and you don't hear the concerns of ordinary citizens, and if it's normal for you to continue to collect over 100,000 signatures, these private contractors can do whatever they want, throw out people and make a huge fortune, then I really don't know, everything and that in some campaign and whatever way you act, think and create a vision of doing a good thing, believe that you're wrong. I have to remind you of 2017, when this little bit more and louder, the governor and the National Bank of Serbia first announced on these loans in Swiss francs. You remember that famous proposal. How could that be solved? They say -- well, to freeze that status, so let's see if they freeze to pay off the credit until some model is found. What model, although there have been many good cases in EU countries, will we see that only after the threat of people harming themselves and that strike before the government, you come with one solution that we said was not good. It is precisely the role of the National Bank of Serbia and all of these bodies belonging to the National Bank of Serbia, under the Law on the National Bank, Article 64, to play such a control role that at any moment it should watch what any bank is doing. So there's no sympathy, no antipathies, where it's from and who it is. If you, please, have issued a license for the operation of a bank under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, they must respect a series of laws and foreign exchange laws and so on. The National Bank of Serbia should control their work at any time. No, the National Bank of Serbia is getting from banks that came here after Dinkic's model of robbery of Serbian citizens and others to work many of them, therefore, to crush huge capital, to get the type contracts that these banks give to citizens while borrowing. We had such fantastic statements -- well, what to do, the citizens took that risk, everyone had the right and the ability to determine whether to be in charge of Swiss francs. The state did not protect citizens, and neither did the National Bank of Serbia with a newly elected one, so later the re-elected governor announced on the matter - must respect the principle of equivalence respected everywhere in the world when it comes to banking business. You can't take five times as many, i.e. banks to skin the citizens, and hence to take an apartment, a house, to throw people out on the street, rather than the law. Gentlemen, in Serbia, we have the Law on Bond Relations. Well, you won't expect all citizens of Serbia, regardless of their calling and education. It can also be a doctor of science, but he doesn't know, from another area. And amongst you to be those who are not economic professions and you don't know how to read that contract, the bank sets you up there all sorts of things, starting with various speculative costs, through the interest that you accept or not of course by signing the contract, but also the part that respects the principle that, if you take a currency credit in euros, and in this case, which was the most terrible of Swiss francs, that currency protects at the expense of Serbian citizens, because you are not obliged, or any Serbian citizen, that is also the other two laws, are not obliged that if they are led astray, and in this case they are, because, of course, the bank will say, here you are, but you are not to define yourself by warning you that this one currency can be very risky for you, but here you take it or leave it, and during that time the National Bank of Serbia is silent. We are not at all satisfied with the operation of the National Bank of Serbia, these members of the Board of Governors, or the governor himself. We think that they absolutely do not meet the role given to them by the Constitution and the law, and above all to respect that principle of independence. The fact that the National Bank of Serbia, which, by the way, celebrated 165 years of its existence this year, says to itself that it has a basic principle that protects citizens, which is the stability of price, price policy, is simply not true. They were talking here today about the inflation rate. The inflation rate is one thing, and price policy is what the Serbian government allows those who trade certain excise goods is another thing. He corrected his later colleague and said in fact that he did not claim that the energy did not accumulate, the lives of both citizens and businessmen in Serbia, but you, gentlemen, will be told about it when the draft budget for 2020, to fill the budget and we believe, we are convinced that in 2020, if there is more, and you will probably have to have that session before the elections, to change the Excise Act, you are much more affected than other countries do when it comes to oil derivatives and it is very easy to calculate. That's why domestic businessmen complain and say that it bothers them and that they are not stimulated enough by the government's policy of subsidies to them as domestic businessmen so that they can have the capital they have, primarily their accumulated, so that the state gives them to develop their business and they don't feel safe. It's easy to talk about and talk about foreign investments that have exceeded so far and giving new jobs over three billion, but look at those companies that are stable in their business, which have never taken from the state dinar, but have not received anything. Therefore, the NBS passed the exam as well as any member of the National Bank Governor's Council when it came to these disastrous contracts that the citizens had with these mafia banks, because the citizens of Serbia first sought first, and later they came and called us, the MPs, wrote and addressed every parliamentary group, government, etc. They were looking for protection from the NBS they didn't get. We believe that the overall financial stability in Serbia is short-term because the NBS is not doing what it should do as a central bank and working everywhere in the world. It's run by government policy. The Serbian government has been elected for a term of office of no more than four years. It can be shorter, as has been the case with many governments from 2000 to today. In order for citizens to have the right sense of trust in the NBS, and if it were indeed independent, it would have to have a different vision of politics, not only run it and give us reports of the current moment, but of what could result, what possible consequences of other blows to Serbia's financial system could occur from various developments, economies in the world, in the environment, etc. No, she is following and following the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we Serbian radicals disagree with, and thus neither with the work of governors nor members of the Council nor other orans established by the Constitution or the Law on NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63687	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what short-term stability is, is it that for eight years now Serbia has no serious disturbances on the foreign market? I don't know how long it takes for someone to say it - people, let's see if you did it right and in the right way or in advance to judge? Given all the times that have been in the past, for a year or two, certain results are seen, let alone for a period that has already lasted for more than seven years, and whenever the National Bank is mentioned, first of all, contracts that are our citizens and part of the economy are concluded with business banks with foreign currency clauses in Swiss francs, and that is where everyone expects help from the National Bank, as if the National Bank is a National Assembly, and occasionally a court. Well, the National Bank can't get into bond relations to that extent that it's advertising some kind of illegal contract. Our foreign exchange law treats contracts with a foreign exchange clause possible. Now, which was another lack of legal regulation where very widely interpreted powers under the Law on Banks and the Foreign Exchange Act were interpreted several times, and the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services was amended several times. And then we finally set up banks to the extent that it was possible that the National Bank could function. But only a court can issue a contract that doesn't apply. The other thing is, is it perhaps going to be done by some general act, such as the experiences of some other countries, especially in our environment? Well, that's possible, but then we risk ending up in international courts and paying banks all the damage they've done. Should someone accept the responsibility to take such a step? The third thing, when it comes to these famous loans in the Swiss francs, is to create equality between the users who have raised these loans and the users who have raised loans indexed in euro. You can't say that one credit is illegal, and another credit is legal only because the indexation of the currency is done in a different way. This was tried by the Supreme Cassation Court, I can say very unmistakably, very unsuccessfully and again, and left the possibility of abuse, and then, as a result of all of this, because of a very badly-done legislative regulation from 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, and even in 2010, followed by the Law on credit conversion, but the law had to first and foremost accept the Association of Banks, because without their consent again, the Republic of Serbia owes the Republic of Serbia the threat of losing those disputes in international courts. And in fact, it has proved to be a decisive role for the president of the state, who, by his authority which has and among the citizens, has simply initiated the adoption of such a law to protect the interests and the banks, but also the citizens who have raised those loans and I see nothing wrong with it. However, when it comes to supervision of banks, you have more control and protection. Only one you don't have is the primary role of the Central Bank, or the National Bank of Serbia. Citizens in all banks, no matter who the founder is and where he came from, deposits some money. Now you can imagine if there is no supervisory role of the Central Bank that these owners are irresponsible, and they are prone to various financial speculations and transactions, they place our citizens' money and domestic economies in uncertain loans to their connected faces. Then they challenge the bankruptcy of banks where the state would have to return every deposit to 50,000 euros, of course, from where, but from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, unfortunately, we had the opportunity to see not with foreign banks but with domestic banks. Just to remind you, there was a famous affair about Agrobank and the uncharging loans she was issuing. E, there is the primary role of the Central Bank, to enable its supervision to operate smoothly in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to monitor the business of banks in the sense that they remain liquid and to be in a position to return money to their depositors. I think that's where our National Bank has functioned impeccably in this period since 2012. We did not have any more launch of any bank liquidation procedure or withdrawal of the work permit due to the circumstances that occurred after 2012, and this was primarily done because the National Bank had, by its policy and control, reduced the percentage of the NLP or the non-performing claims in the business banks, regardless of where it came from. Now, imagine that only one bank in the Republic of Serbia can create such market disturbances that all that has been done positively is questioned. I like to talk a little bit about things that have happened in the past and that are tangible. Remember that only one company at a time was a much more economically powerful country than Serbia today, issued notes without cover and questioned the functioning of the entire state. Now, imagine a bank doing it. It is the National Bank that will determine the deposits that the commercial banks have to pay to the National Bank to place risk or unsecured loans and each year to audit each bank's operations. It is the primary role of the Central Bank when it comes to the financial market. Now we can talk about what inflation is, whether it's real or not, etc., but the fact is that the situation is economically much better than it was seven or eight years ago. One more thing, when you mention excise or tax policy, first the Republic of Serbia takes nothing through taxes, takes nothing from citizens like some like to show, because without the collection of tax claims there would be no health care, there would be no part of the pension fund, there would be no Ministry of Defence, there would be no MUP, there would be no judicial authorities, none of it would be. One more thing, since we like to boast about what kind of excise policy countries have in the environment, I can say that excise duties have been last changed in 2010 or 2011. They haven't been one since. I also have to ask, in some country in the environment, which, behold, I agree to be an EU member, have built so many roads, reconstructed so many tracks, reconstructed so many regional and local roads, reconstructed so many hospitals, reconstructed so many schools? Tell me a country in the area. I wish there were any. There isn't. Where did that money come from? Tax and excise. Don't keep changing the thesis. One more thing, no traffic infrastructure, no development. Until we build the roads, reconstruct all our railways, make and new ones, we won't have as much economic reform as we'd like, and yet we still have to finance only or much of our incomes that we have again from taxes and excises. Don't change those things, it's not like that. There were political parties who said that when we came to power we would cancel the tax; so we know how they went in the elections. The National Bank, in accordance with the law, has exercised its powers to the full. There's something else I need to tell you. Whenever you read in the paper an article that was attacked by the National Bank, governor, member of the Council or someone who was high-ranking at the National Bank, that you know that the National Bank has stepped very well on some of the business banks because of their illegal business. Then you have as a reaction to show something or attack an individual or a state organ that doesn't do its job right. To know that they're always business banks, because they can finance the entire newspaper, the whole circulation of certain newspapers, and in such a way that they try to realize their economic interest that has absolutely nothing to do with politics or government, or the National Bank, or the National Assembly. Now, if anyone wants to join in, let them join him from fellow MPs, I don't want to participate, so I don't see any reason to bring the results of the National Bank under question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63689	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63690	Mr. Arsic, you've established this model of solving questions in the Swiss francs. You say that now as some best solution and you voted, it was a special law in the Assembly. We believe that this solution is not good and that they are citizens, behold, they are forced, take or leave, who have accepted it, some will seek the epilogue of their cases in court, nevertheless damaged. Here's why. The National Bank of Serbia has not reported since all these events, not in the past two years and backwards, as long as Jorgenka Tabakovic is governor, saying that these contracts signed for the purchase of real estate, above all, in Swiss francs, are harmful because the NBS must, the governor said -- that was so most favourable at the time. She was an SRS MP when Parivodić, with the governor at the time, promoted those loans. And, here, he listened to Despotovic and Vesna, took loans in Swiss francs, I didn't. She said the same thing to me – that's what's best for you. I didn't buy it, because there it is. This woman, as an expert, has now become your chamber, being political, and then elected governor. You know what, a Serbian citizen doesn't have to know all that. The Bond Relations Act protects interest policy. So, a contract that decides that a citizen is not to be fooled, not to be the subject of some green and speculative shops. Then just tell me in what law is there a possibility that banks are still accounting for these fees and all other costs? Some even, from the bank to the bank, there are those in credit items from five to I don't know how many, without the NBS responding there. Don't take your head off, Mr. Arsic. Maybe you're not someone who has to take any credit. The biggest problem is that citizens are also in charge of buying everything and everything, especially for housing facilities, and later on for these loans. When it comes to these currency clauses, other countries in the world, like Spain, are beautiful, and their governments, and above all the courts, taking a stand and saying that these are not ordinary interest rate loans and that they can't have those speculative loans in Swiss francs at all. They said well - everything that wasn't calculated in the euro, but in another currency, they were so-called. financial derivatives traded on the capital market. It comes from this, which is the role of the National Bank and it is in the Foreign Exchange Act, that it must protect citizens from being able to obtain a credit that is converted, or which has a currency clause, or underestimation, or overestimation of that currency. If you don't know and you're not going to do it, then you're not responding with clear will. Not every citizen has to know what's convenient for him at the moment, but then the National Bank has to call and say it's not good, it controls the work of these banks, looks at every contract for all types of credit, that, and it doesn't comply with the positive laws in the Republic of Serbia, the bank charges you for finding out what our people would say, a hole in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63691	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63692	Well, come on, I don't know how to explain it anymore. Here, like this. So, the current governor of the National Bank, Mrs Tabakovic, is responsible for the loans that the citizens raised in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: She had that attitude. Well, that was her private position, not the governor. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Never mind. Well, it does. Now, one question. If someone says, or the National Bank says she didn't do her supervisory role right, who's going to pay the damages to the citizens? Well, the National Bank. Don't play now, make up stuff and events to find any basis to attack anyone. Does the bank have the right to charge the costs of processing the credit? Here, and the courts said there is, but he has to prove it. He has to prove them. The calculation must specify exactly what, how much is the cost. He may have hired an appraiser to assess the value of the property to be bought. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Well, all legal provisions The National Bank must control. The National Bank is not a court. Start once, get out of that one-party system. So, the courts have a function, the National Bank has a function, the National Assembly has a function, the government has a function and its powers. Now, since you're already attacking these loans, have either of you tried to simulate a loan that was indexed in euro and indexed in the Swiss franc? Did anyone try to make it? But under those conditions that were then on the market. To get some information out, you have to do some simulations of something that's going on first. Now, I'm telling you that according to the citizens, this law that was passed on the conversion of housing loans was far more favourable than it would have been after that simulation. The only advantage that citizens who had borrowed loans in the euro was that as the bank's interest policy changed, they could re-negotiate and replace them with annexes, which was not possible for those in the Swiss franc because they would accept most of the capital themselves than they had actually raised a loan. And it's in a certain way equal to that law, about a dinar, maybe a little bit more will be returned by the one who took out a loan in the Swiss franc than by the one he raised in the euro. So the law went to those details. Now, could the National Bank have forced the business banks to give up their profits? Well, she didn't, she couldn't. disproportionate due to, change of market conditions etc. Not the National Bank, but the courts, where each case is individual. You can't handle individual cases with a general act, you can't. You can throw, but it's just a reflection or ignorance or a lack of political argument, but it really is. So we could have tried some other models, but you know what, we risk losing our disputes to international courts and paying those banks again. It's not all so black and it's not exactly as we'd like every time. There are various restrictions we don't contribute to. One more thing. When there was a story here about the Spanish method, etc., can anyone even tell me why we have a stable situation today, economically, why the loans that are in the dinars have an even bigger interest than the loans that are indexed in euro and that you know that the margin of the bank is the same? If you succeed in that mathematical pattern to show me, I confess, and indeed you do. But you have to get a little bit more into monetary policy, what are the central bank's reference interest rates, what are bank margins, which is a way of borrowing banks in the interbank market, which is how banks are borrowed from the central bank, and then we can talk a little bit more seriously about the National Bank. Now, I have to admit, some stories about a very serious state body are more like political than professional ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63693	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63694	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today on the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. In fact, it's about Mr. Martinović never. I'd say he's a gentleman with a very impressive biography. He's been working since 1975, so we haven't found him anywhere, so we got him into this Council, but he's qualified, he's got extraordinary references. First he was the director of prestigious companies, then the CEO, and then a consultant in various extremely strong companies in Serbia, so they are extremely good qualifications. I don't want to talk about him anymore, there's a biography. However, I must say that today absolutely no one has said anything bad about this man. Of course I'll support this proposal for Mr. Martinovic. I would like something more concrete on this, about his work and Mrs Tabakovic's work, which is at the head of the National Bank of Serbia, fortunately. Let's only remember in 2012 when inflation was 13%. Today, it's at a historic minimum of 1.5%, ranging from 1.5% to 2%. What does that mean? Well, foreign direct investment. Today, the Republic of Serbia is the most respectable country in the region, with the highest percentage of foreign direct investment. What does that mean again? That, with 400,000 unemployed people in 2008, unemployment, 27% and 2008, has never repeated unemployment 10.5% today. We hired over 200,000 people. Why? A chain reaction, because it is a stable course of dinars, because the National Bank is being paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2012, there were 16,000 dinars, today 30.022 dinars. The average salary was 360 euros, today, by the end of the year 500 euros. Well, that's the way it works! About Mrs. Tabakovic, only the best. I'll tell you from the site what the National Bank has accomplished. The National Bank of Serbia made a total profit in the past year, meaning 2018, after tax, worth 30.66 billion dinars. As published on the National Bank of Serbia's website, profit from operating operations, which did not stem from exchange rates and revolving reserves of 13.24 billion dinars, has been allocated so that 70% and 9.27 billion, respectively, have been transferred to the republican budget. That's why we, among other things, have separate living money, 760m euros for Coridor Morevski, so there's also a portion of the National Bank of Serbia. Don't let anyone say it's a bad thing to do. It's never been better in your life. We build hospitals, we build schools. Why? Because we have a surplus in the budget. We raise pensions, raise salaries, give one-time help. It's not ideal, but it's much, much better. Let's move on. How does the National Bank of Serbia do that? By providing price and financial stability with monetary policy, we continued to support credit activity and economic growth, the living truth. Thanks to this, as well as responsible fiscal policy, Serbia has been able to make huge progress, as it has done, to achieve the highest growth in economic activity in the last decade and make its prospects for growth favourable in the coming period. That's the living truth. You don't need to ignore the truth. We live much better today, not ideally, but I am satisfied that a woman like Mrs Tabakovic had a re-election two years ago, which is also Mr Martinovic's re-election, because I say is not, I don't know him, but an impressive biography just talks about me voting with pleasure for this gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63695	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63696	I have to talk to my colleague Malusic first, I hope he doesn't mind me, and I just thought that we here are now discussing the election of a member of the Board of Governors, Mr Nikola Martinovic, the magistrate. However, I have a feeling that we should choose the lawyer of the National Bank of Serbia or perhaps listen to the candidate of the future governor. It's all allowed, it's not a problem at all, but maybe I was a little deluded. Let's get back to what we should talk about on this. The National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is the central bank. She marked 135 years. On July 2, 1884, she started working. Her first governor was Alexander Spasic and, before I count those who were in this century, we must also mention George Wyfert as governor of the National Bank. The fact that her seat was, this is historical data, but it's not bad to remember, the fact that this central, then called Privilege Bank, in the street of Prince Michael, is said to have been looked at with attention, and indeed it is the constitutional category of the National Bank. It was not established by the National Bank Act, but by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- there is a National Bank of the Republic of Serbia between some authorities. She now has great responsibilities, and in that field she realizes what the concept is of both the Constitution and the Law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Now there are some bodies that are defined by Article 12 of that Bill, which are the Executive Board of the Bank, Governor of the National Bank and this Board of Governors of the National Bank. He has well noticed fellow Milorad Mircic, related to this proposal, and it is described here that MP groups have the right to propose it. Now they have two facts that lead me so little, it's not a delusion, but they bring me or lead me on one path that may not be right, but to share it with you. First, it was proposed by the National Bank Governor's Office. I am not familiar with the procedure, on the one hand, and this, which my colleague Mircic was already talking about, that this same candidate was proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, and now by the SNS. This suggests to me that it is impossible for Serbia to be the bearer of some public function, and that you are not a member of the SNS before that. If anyone wants to, we can't, we're not defending anyone to join. Maybe it's not very good for some independence of those bodies that we're talking about, that they're independent, that they have great freedom in their business. This is how it went and he'll be voted, and it's not disputed, as much as we're making some arguments that maybe it's wrong and besides, personally, maybe this man meets those conditions. We watched his biography. He has these observed functions where he was, we assume, and for the second time, he should be re-elected. True, his first term was shorter because the law defined that if, instead of someone who had suspended his mandate, had he resigned, had he been removed, had it not mattered, had his mandate been elected, his term would be up until the end of the term of office of the one he had been elected. It was the first time, and then he had a mandate and now he needs to be re-elected. The data that the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia paid in last year, whether or not, counterpart Mircic, 10m euros is a good thing. Also, as with the Competition Protection Commission, it has not been in one year, but since its existence, in the first decade it has dealt with its own conditions, creating conditions for it to start working, and only in the beginning of the second decade, in the last five years, has it done a little more of its job for which it has been elected. There's a lot of money in there and now I'm gonna try one parallel. There's someone there who's being punished by that Commission. It is likely that economic activities have led the National Bank, as a profitable institution, to earn some money and can pay it into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Has anyone thought that these amounts are slightly smaller if the economic activity in that case would be more dynamic? This amount paid by the Commission is not the money it has brought from abroad. It is again money from some of our economic operators who have been punished for having roughly deepened consumers in Serbia or not acting competitively on the market. All of these are facts that need to be taken into account and occasionally run an analysis. You know, it's not always the most paid, the best and half citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You were talking today, but sometimes I get the impression that those pictures you're talking about and that we can see in real life don't look at the same glasses. You've talked a lot about the condition that is, which we certainly agreed to, we've changed for the better. Today, we have a population shortage in Serbia. The first was the problem, my colleague Arsic and I agree that she was leaving Serbia at some point, it's hard to say it now, but not a qualified workforce, and now experts are leaving. However, we have again come to the situation that people with such a low level of interest cannot engage for some needs in our companies, now with private capital or personal if it is necessary to do so. Where are these people going? Are you asking yourself? Very often, the man says, "I work at that job but until I go to Germany, until I go to France or another country." If that's so nice, why don't we have a comeback? To make progress, it's progressing, but don't prename it. (Alexander Martinovic: Have you wondered why they are not going to Russia? ) They go to Russia, but of course when there was an Olympics, where they went the most. People go where they can provide the quickest paperwork. They don't always go where best financial conditions are offered. Of course, they're trying to leave, but it's not always possible, it's waiting longer. This is where the situation got a little harder, not to say unbearable, it's not. Some in Serbia live extremely well. The average income said in Serbia, according to the Statistics Institute, it allows conditionally decent life. There are people who have a little greater needs, their intellectual and some other abilities, and not just abilities, but habits, they're bigger than those who live and in some environments that don't have all the offers that big cities have. That's not negligible. It all affects people where they go, where they live, and what conditions they try to find. Did the NBS think about the amount of credit-processing funds, it stands out depending on the bank to the bank from 1 to 2%, to be abolished. You know that the Supreme Cassation Court, this may not be official data, the Supreme Court of Cassation has made several decisions, or judgments in favour of clients. The National Bank occasionally controls business banks. She saw it and she can see it. Did she warn the banks not to do it and they can't do it? Preventing money laundering from financing terrorism has lost its meaning. It goes unpunished, those who truly have the origin of the property could be brought under question in terms of fair work. But mostly if someone has to pay their child, who goes to school somewhere, they have to explain exactly where he, where the wife, where everyone else works, is going to show where he came from for about 200 euros. Sir and colleague Arsic, that's it, that's it, sign in and you can answer later. If all is so well, the most courageous were made by the perpetrators precisely on the basis of the obligations of Serbian citizens to banks. Immediately afterwards, their obligations are, the obligations of Serbian citizens to municipal enterprises, but large claims are also made by banks based on loans. A large number of Serbian citizens take one loan to return another or as it is said in banking to refinance. Does the NBS do anything about it? After all, Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the NBS, we have never disputed her expertise, but when it comes to some moral credibility, there could be little analysis and talk and say the first salary ratio, which she herself said, if I am not mistaken and quote well, is enormously high or rude. Now there's no big difference, there's something a little down, and then there's a big number again. It is not normal for the governor of the NBS to have a higher salary than the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and perhaps the most paid minister or deputy Prime Minister. It is not normal, and it is one of the few governors of the National Bank, or bank that has failed to solve the problem with the Swiss francs. You will now tell your colleague Arsic – that is settled. The finance minister said it was resolved on a proposal from the president of the state. So, on the proposal of Alexander Vukic, not any active act by the governor of the National Bank. That's not good and that's not right, but when we think of it, when the citizens of Serbia remember who was the governor of the NBS, then, let's not say, and this evil can be suffered. Remember Mladjan Dinkic, who broke in with a weapon, and then he self-assumed himself, wasn't elected. He is mentioned there in anals as a man who was on two occasions the governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, for the first time he was self-proposed for the second time, but for a short time he was set up. Then, Kori Udovicki, a woman who says – if you have great obligations for the apartments you have somewhere in the area of Terrace, Slavia or the like, sell, buy less so that you can settle your obligations properly. Mr. Jelasic, where is he now? We'll make some small connection between Mrs Tabakovic and Mr Jelasic. Dr. Dejan Šoštic, he was from 2010 to 2012. Do you remember any demeanor then as a national MP, Mrs Tabakovic pointed towards Governor Soskovic? Veroljub Arsic: What are you lying about? ) Very nice words you use, I don't mind. It's your attitude, but it's true. Veroljub Arsic: No, but a lie. Everything you said. We only say what was, not what was right. Now, what could it be in common? Do you remember a Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic who was the finance minister, including a vice governor, but not only that. She was an IMF advisor. We personally think that Jorgenka Tabakovic is her position after this, because her very serious competition with her colleague Arsic, perhaps I could vote for him, for the governor of the National Bank, so when all this is up to her, she will find her position perhaps in the IMF or somewhere. With one statement, the IMF only made sure that the state of Serbia could be solvable and liquid, that it reconciled its commitments to both the IMF and other international organisations that credited the state of Serbia, reduced Serbia's economic potential, something increased now compared to some earlier time. But fellow Arsic, when you said the foreign reserve question, if they have to and should be, there should be an optimum in everything, a surplus sometimes can hurt. You said that if foreign exchange reserves were cut, we'd lose our ratings. If we're so capable... Veroljub Arsic: I didn't say that. That's what you fellow Arsic said. There's a stenogram, so we'll see if you said or didn't. If we're doing so well, why do we have to take care of certain duties? (Veroljub Arsic: If we spend foreign reserves on current consumption. ) You often say that interest rates are now interest rates, i.e. that this government, the state of Serbia takes loans at significantly lower interest rates, so simply on the world market capital has a lower price. And that's the situation with us. Veroljub Arsic: Come on! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You see, I could stay out of the National Assembly session any day, but someone would have to convince me that Mr. Arsic wouldn't talk that day, and I would be very sorry if he spoke without me being there. Mr. Arsic, I've never met a better professor than you, and that's why you'll be supporting me for the governor of the National Bank. I don't know which states you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63697	Thank you, colleague Peric. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63698	Thank you for your support, colleague Peric, but, for now, the governor, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, is doing a great job. But you really made it in a short time period... So, I was able to fill out this note very quickly, try to record what you said. First, you said that the National Bank had paid some seven-eightm euros in fines it had imposed on business banks and other economic financial entities. Here, like this. In total, 70% of the National Bank's profits amounting to 13 billion and 240 million dinars, nine billion and 270 million are paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Take the digitron and calculate, it's not seven-eight million, it's a little more, one dozen times more. But, well, that's where Milan Brkic gets confused around zero. It was shown from the operational business, and I just said in my discussion that the National Bank does not have the basic income due to trading transactions rather than giving technical support to the banks regarding payment traffic, there are some other things, etc., etc., not to repeat that story. Where did these 13 billion dinars come from, of which nine billion and 270 million were paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia? I didn't make it up, you can read it all on the National Bank website. Origin for 200 euros? You know, the National Bank doesn't control money in terms of financing terrorism and preventing laundering. It's done by a special state body and it's called the Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. The amount to be controlled, here, and I'm going to tell you, is more than 15,000 euros, not 200 euros. Now, if someone is paying you from abroad, and there was a situation, even one prime minister could get hurt by it, the former, from the time of the Serbian Radical Party's government, to be clear, someone can pay you money in the current foreign account and be in terrible trouble here with the law, because you don't even know that money has been paid to you. Well, that's why you need to sign the consent that that money is really being paid to you. And that is the regulation passed by the National Bank. Let's get this straight. I think Mirko Marjanovic was done in Switzerland, as I recall. Let's move on. Judicial perpetrators. Be careful now, Jorgenka Tabakovic is to disband the court perpetrators. We established them by law, the Assembly, once upon a time. It's not even this convulsion. We've been trying for a longer period of time to recollect them in some normal way of functioning. And now I'm asking the question -- if citizens are in debt to banks, and these same banks are in debt to citizens when a citizen places money on savings or has money, according to current consumption, business as well, so now, if that other citizen doesn't repay the credit he has raised from the bank, indirectly, it's another citizen's money or a business entity in Serbia. So what do we do? Who's gonna pay that money back then? A business bank that can't collect its claim, because we don't have a good claim collection system, and money comes from our citizens and our economy? Come on now, however we turn, back behind. Always will be. What's the problem now? So you see how populist we can replace the more immediately. Banks work very little with their money. They usually work with deposits by sight or loans withdrawn from investment funds. Let's move on. Credits in francs. Here we have colleagues here, I have not said at any time that the Law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs is the merit of the National Bank, but I have said that the merit of Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic of Serbia and his authority. Look into the stenogram. I will dismember every part of your discussion. Condescending to Governor Shoskovic - did I understand you well? Great. From this place here, between this passageway, there was Jorgenka Tabakovic when he attacked Šoškovic. You're not gonna tell me where I was sitting, are you? Someone knocks on the door, maybe Alzheimer's? Here, in this hall, the current governor criticised Soskovic during his election, because there is no book keeping records of issued state records of value, because they broadcast the government, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. So we had about 11 billion euros in some loans that were on the so-called. Rolling, dinar but in euros. What kind of condescending is that? Let's move on. The International Monetary Fund. He has his own interests. I don't argue with him. It may be that loans raised by the Republic of Serbia or even the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are returned, but, people, that's their right, that's their money. I don't know what you're expecting. There's no free money anymore, no place in the world. There isn't. Our interest was to get positive estimates for implementing our economic reforms, to attract investors, and domestic ones, who ran away with their heads regardless of Serbia until 2012 and the sides, that Serbia is a safe and suitable country for investment. We needed that grade, they didn't tell us what to do. Let's move on. Foreign reserve. I didn't say that - if we're losing foreign reserves, I said something else: "if we start spending our foreign reserves as current budget spending." It's not done anywhere in the world. Well, that's how much I've done in a short time. It seems to me there was still a discussion, I didn't write it down, Mr. Perry, you can remind me, but it doesn't matter. I think that's enough. So it's not a system of financial market control, macroeconomic, monetary security and everything that the National Bank touches so simple that we could put it in one political discussion, five or ten minutes. The National Bank has its results. Yeah, I forgot to mention, there's a work force drain. And that's why it's Jorgenka Tabakovic's fault? It's like he hasn't been going on since 1960, 1970. It's been happening ever since. People have been leaving ever since. But the fact is that now some are coming back, not so small a number. You know, there's always, coming, coming back, fluctuating. We're working on stopping it. But find me a magic wand and a formula. The only thing we can do is get the citizens some passports. Is that a solution? I don't think so. People, we live in the 21st century. We're administratively detaining our citizens. Today, that's how it is. We are working on making Serbia a much better place to live than it was now. We're working to be. And that will be the motive for our people to return. Maybe someone else will. But we're making that kind of company. If you think you can do it overnight, I really can't agree with that, and even the one that many here celebrate, Joseph Broz, it took him 30 years to build a state like that. And after these dosmanias, the former regime, believe me, is more devastated than the sanctions and wars have desolated her.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63699	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The right to replica has Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63700	Mr. Arsic, you have one advantage over me, the weather. I will try quickly to look back at what you said, but I hope Mr. Marinkovic will be a little more tolerated. First, I told the National Bank 10m euros, I told the Competition Protection Commission 8.2m and not for a year, but from my existence. The Competition Protection Commission, then he said it. That's one thing. Second of all, you put more weight on Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic's back than I did. You said she drove people out looking for a job abroad, I didn't say it at all. I was talking about the picture we see in Serbia, it has nothing to do with Jorgenka Tabakovic. Just so we understand each other. Secondly, she sat down and related to the choice of governors said – if this hall doesn't warm up, she'll bring a blanket. You know, it's our duty if we're seriously dealing with this business to remember everything that's been said, what we've been doing, what others have been doing. Some things if you want, we can see in the stenogram what you said and what you didn't say. I did not say that 200 euros is required of origin, but forms must be filled out that indicate that if someone is elected to the board, and it is known that occasional payments are made for schooling children and the like. Furthermore, the bank is not in debt with citizens, citizens are in debt with the bank. A citizen can save money, a citizen can. Is this the bank taking loans from citizens? Veroljub Arsic: Yes. From the citizens he takes credit? From the physical faces? Veroljub Arsic: When you deposit money in the bank, what is a loan? ) Well, you're going to the bank to get a loan, it's not the same as when you go to the bank to leave and the bank will receive money at your savings, and it doesn't mean that the bank will always give you the requested loan and give you the amount you want. That's some difference. That's what you should know and we shouldn't talk about it. You are not the first, Mr. Arsic, to say that Mr. Alexander Vukic has solved the problem with the Swiss francs. That's what Sinisha Mali said as minister when the law was on the agenda. Of course, that's how it was, he didn't solve the governor of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63701	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Mr. Arsic, would you like a replica or an authorised representative? (Veloljub Arsic: As an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63702	First of all, when you go to deposit money in a bank, there's more than one kind of deposit. One way to deposit is by sight. So you can pick it up whenever you want. The bank can, but it doesn't have to give you interest. The other one's a lifesaver. As far as I know, that's when the contract is signed. That's right, the contract is signed with the bank. That's when you credit the bank. That's right. You know, that's what people do, I can't make it up. So you're lending the bank. Then what else? You gave money to save, for what? To get interest. So is this the credit the bank takes from you? Yes, it is. Are you going to give it to every bank? You won't. If you're serious about business, you'll check that bank's credit rating. Where? On the National Bank site, nowhere else. So we're getting to it slowly that it's not that simple. Let's move on. Credits, for example, by sight, were previously cash registers. You have a company that runs its business through a bank and has an account found, for example, 100,000 dinars at the end of the working day, i.e. payment traffic, the National Bank withdraws the license for the bank's work. What about your 100,000 dinars? Who's gonna pay you back your money? It will be returned from the budget or from the Deposit Insurance Agency, which is also charged from the budget. But the bank spent your money. That is why it is the purpose of the National Bank, to make sure that when the bank places money, these loans are remunerated, so that they are not hit by the bank's savings and depositors and, in the end, by the state, which guarantees up to 50,000 euros, because it has given the bank permission to work. That's how the banking system works, not just with us, but everywhere in the world. You know, there's more than one way for the opposition to interfere with their work. I've always been against it. Whenever any fellow MP comes here and complains that he's hot or cold, we look to regulate the temperature that suits him most, because it's probably all of the others' closest, appropriate temperature, and one way was to keep the opposition from making this hall cool. It's not up to you to discuss it then, because you need to sit down for hours while you're cold. If it is condescending in the election of Šoškovic, I really have nothing else to object to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63703	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Sreto Peric has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63704	Mr. Arsic, some things shouldn't be bananad. Under no circumstances can there be anything that is related to whether it is low or high temperature, it has nothing to do with it. Those talks ended when he as governor said what he had to say, so approaches. Besides, let's not talk about what happened next. Who guarantees the deposits? Well, the National Bank didn't say who it was. The law exists, the agency exists, 50,000 dinars. Do you know when that law was passed, Mr. Arsic? That's when we sat in the same parliamentary group. Exports have changed, and the agency has been established before and has existed before. So don't bring things down to a minimum and underestimate them. It's people's lives. We never advocated that the debtor not settle his obligation, but the conditions that changed changed, changed circumstances. You're saying they can't affect the change from the contract itself. Here, let your colleague Martinovic explain. Let your colleague Martinovic explain whether I can or can't. In this case, it was not an individual case, but rather a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in the case of heavy borrowing, today when we have the arrogant behaviour of the perpetrators. It's also a signal for the president of the state, it's not just a signal for the governor of the National Bank. She can't change it, she can't free it, and neither can we, nor any citizen, ask the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to free the citizens of its obligations. But if this occurs as a very common case, then examine how and how this happened and how and how it can be solved, as the president of the Republic of Serbia said it was unbearable more. There were announcements and taking their own lives about loans in Swiss francs, so then maybe the president of the state started the problem himself, made it a little bigger than it did, and then solved it. After all, it doesn't matter what you and I think about it, but it's important that those who were in debt now have a more comfortable situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63705	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63706	First, the deposits, let's take it in a row. By 2008, the state guaranteed up to 10,000 euros in deposits. In 2008, when the global economic crisis broke out, in November or December 2008, we raised that amount to 50,000 euros. Why? So that citizens do not withdraw their funds from banks and that they do not question the liquidity of the entire sector. That's why the state agreed to vouch for the larger stakes. No other reason was there. Now what's the role of the National Bank? To keep an eye on the business bank so it doesn't waste the money that belongs to the citizens and the economy over non-refundable loans. It is one of the main roles of the National Bank when it comes to the control of the financial market. That means he controls banks so they don't place money in insecure loans. I think you're a lawyer, right? I know it is. The National Bank cannot, has neither the capacity nor the legal authority to enter any contract that has been concluded into its details based on the Liabilities Act. Have the circumstances changed? She doesn't appreciate the National Bank, she can give her opinion to the courts, which they again, so they don't have to accept as binding. The courts are the ones who have changed the price of the circumstances and for each contract individually, each individual circumstance must measure because it is not the same for the contracts signed in 2006, it is not the same for 2007, 2008 and even in 2009. So the National Bank can't do that, that's what courts do. Take it once. What's most surprising to me in this whole story is that what's tangible, which is visible, what citizens feel you're trying to convince them that it's not happening, is for me something like what Mirko Cvetkovic said in 2011, statistically we're out of crisis and citizens don't feel it. Now we know that inflation is not big, we know that citizens have more money, we know that national currency is stable, we see that in all of Serbia, that something is improving and we say -- no, it's not good, it happened by accident. Yeah, I forgot to say, look at the world market capital price of the reference interest rates of the central banks. Take a look at the European Central Bank reference rate in Frankfurt in 2010, see today, and you will see that it is very similar. So the cost of capital on the international market in 2010 is also very similar today, but we have some results that can make us get cheaper assets, pay off expensive loans and build Serbia. Look, it's statistical data, don't mention it again, I warned one of your colleagues. Do not take the data out by heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63707	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Sreto Peric has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63708	Dear Arsic, some of the things that you have just said, today as an authorised representative of the SRS on this subject, was brought to this point by counterpart Milorad Mircic and we do not need to repeat at all. If he said there was no inflation, that the dinar was stable, that some of the activities were different from some time ago, why would I repeat it now? And that's what you're talking about right now, that's not what I was talking about. I said when is this agency and when is the state guaranteeing savings and that it is good and that the state has done so that there is no bankruptcy of the financial and banking system. If someone had said of a very rich man now that he had failed, his business partners, his creditors, if there were, suppliers, would have come immediately to demand all debts, which didn't even arrive. It was a danger to protect against that amount being even increased. Why do we repeat that when we know it was like that? Now you're explaining to me that everything's the same out there, only we have something, some favor. Remember the words of the late colleague Zoran Krasic, who said – cheese is only free on mousefish, everything else has a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63709	Thank you, colleague Peric. Let's move on. The word is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63710	I thank the chairman. We have before us a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. We had the opportunity to get acquainted with the biography of the proposed candidate, Mr. Martinovic, who has shown that through his career he has shown his exceptional expertise and qualifications. I'm sure he'll continue to do his job responsibly and successfully. What I want to stress is my great satisfaction that thanks to the reforms and excellent work of the management of the National Bank of Serbia and Governor Tabakovic, at the end of October of this year we had gross foreign reserves at the highest level since 2000, which means after 19 years and amounted to 13.49 billion euros. The National Bank of Serbia increased its gross foreign exchange reserves by 2.23 billion euros through foreign exchange interventions in the domestic foreign exchange market by 10 months 2019, which is the healthiest way to increase the reserves because it does not involve any debt or other obligation. Also, what is very important is that this further strengthens the resilience of the domestic financial system and encourages the development of the financial market and financial system in general. Today we have a stable rate of dinar, reducing the credit risk of participants in the financial market. Low, stable and fully controlled inflation in previous years has made it possible to invest more, has increased consumption and savings, and in general changed the entrepreneurial initiative of citizens. Inflation in Serbia in October 2019 was 0.1% higher than in September while compared to the same month last year was 1%, and eight years ago inflation was 10% to 14% and it was quite oscillating. Interest rates on dinar loans are constantly falling. In this way, the National Bank of Serbia has stimulated credit activity, has encouraged investment and our entrepreneurs to invest in the economy. Therefore, increased investment and expanded business, which contributes to sustainable economic growth with GDP growth up to 3.49%. The dinar savings are now four times higher than in 2012 and are growing rapidly. In July of this year, more than 71 billion dinar savings were registered. Foreign investors' investment in government securities is growing, which was a mental directory for the domestic market seven years ago. To remind me, based on the decision of the National Bank of Serbia, citizens have the right to be charged by banks by the same type of course under which they were granted credit and that the rate of dinar is 117,47 per euro, or lower today, or lower than in 2012. Also, thanks to the government's decision by the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic, the legacy of the major problem in Serbia, which represented housing loans in the Swiss francs, has been resolved for the Lex specialis of the Swiss Law and the solution of this problem by the state has singled out 11.7 billion dinars from the state budget to calm banks' obligations to 15,785 Swiss citizens. I'll remind you it was in April this year. Ten billion euros inflows of foreign direct investment during 2015 until 2018, which continues to be a sign of confidence with accelerated dynamics. A concrete confirmation of confidence is also the emission of a ten-year Eurobond on the international market at an interest rate of 1.6%. This is only a small part of a large number of good results and reforms implemented by the National Bank of Serbia, which contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. So by keeping a good monetary policy through maintaining foreign exchange rate stability, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been given the opportunity by careful planning to re-elevate the economy that has been on the air for too long and raise the standard of living for citizens. Serbia is now a country in which more and more investment is being invested, in the long term, and in which state property is not sold into depravity. A recognizable and respectable country in the world has been recognizable. It is clear that our President Aleksandar Vukic and our Government are not engaged in scandals and plots but only in our Republic of Serbia. We do not have illegal construction behind us, and regardless of the consequences and the millions of damages caused by the poor direction and the treasonous policy that led us to the yellow rule. We do not have calls for violence and hatred, unhappiness and betrayal, abandoned factories and fired workers. They're only behind us, and I'm proud to say the results. Hundreds of miles of new roads, new factories, jobs. At every step, it rebuilds and builds, from Belgrade on water and beautiful towers to schools, hospitals, parks and all that makes one new and better environment for a better and safer life for Serbian citizens. We have secure salaries and pensions that are on a steady rise, reduced spending towards the state and more modern life. That is why I call on all my colleagues and colleagues to support all the proposed laws and points of the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63711	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63712	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to say that the candidate for the National Bank of Serbia Board is part of a team that has the results of the work, which are also recognised by international institutions. Today, thanks to the National Bank of Serbia, we have the most stable dinar course of all time. Last year, a prestigious agency named BLOMBERG declared a dinar to be the second most stable currency in the world. The dinar today according to the euro compared to 2012, almost at the same level as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorgvanka Tabakovic, was elected. A stable course of dinar has contributed to our businesses operating in a more stable environment, and a stable course of dinar is particularly important for those companies that have been export-oriented, because exporting companies no longer have losses based on the exchange rate differences they had years ago. In 2019, the National Bank of Serbia maintained a low and stable inflation comparable to that in the most developed countries, and it managed to maintain a full six years. The National Bank of Serbia has also increased foreign reserves and are at the highest level compared to 2000, from 2000 to today at the lowest level. Also, the dinar savings have reached the highest levels so far, by resolving the issue of problematic loans, reduced their participation in the total loans of the banking sector to the lowest level. Also, credit activity has increased and all these NBS results have contributed to sustainable economic growth and a better standard of living for all Serbian citizens. Today, Serbia has more foreign direct investment than the entire Western Balkans combined, and this is also the result of NBS or rather NBS teamwork, the hard work of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As I said at the outset, the candidate for the Board of Governors of the NBS, candidate for member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, is part of a team that has results and I believe that what is good, should certainly have continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63713	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63714	Thank you. The Republic of Serbia is co-operating with rating agencies, and one of them is Fitch, which assesses its credit rating with long-term and short-term borrowing in domestic and foreign currency. We have testified that two months ago, this agency has increased Serbia's credit rating from BB to BB plus, but with the result that it continues to improve. This is the result of a stable economic policy led by our government and our President Aleksandar Vukic, who is committed to fiscal consolidation. The continued budget surplus has been three years in a row, on average 0.9% of GDP compared to the 6.2% of GDP deficit in 2014. Strong control of current expenditures, growth of economic activities, increased direct foreign investment, a steady growth in tax revenues, suggests fiscal stability will be expected in the coming period. Public debt participation in GDP recorded a constant fall of 71.2% in 2015 to 51.3% in 2019. It is significant to say that the public debt currency also improves, a decrease in the share of the dollar debt that was largely affected by the transaction prior to the time of purchase of dollar bonds in June this year totalling $1.1 billion and the favourable conditions achieved on the international capital market at the lowest interest rate of 1.5%, with a maturity of 10 years. Low and stable inflation, which ranges around 1.3% annually with the same exchange rate stability, has contributed to a further reduction in NBS' reference interest rate at 2.5%. NBS foreign reserves are constantly growing, and today they amount to over 13 billion euros. The strengthening of the banking sector supports the growth of credit activity and the share of NPL so-called problematic loans, reduced to 5% in 2019 compared to 2015 when it was 21.6%. The commitment of our government and President Aleksandar Vukic to reduce unemployment, to bring in more companies, to make Serbian citizens a better and happier life in their country. The increase in earnings as well as pensions, the average earnings of over 500 euros, the announced increase in parental allowance for the first child, 200m euros to improve Serbia's demographic picture, is only one in a series of benefits expected by Serbian citizens, excluding all infrastructure projects, which are now at every step in Serbia and are visible. In the voting day, I will certainly support and vote in favour of the motion for a mark on the election of a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS, as well as members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63715	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. The word is Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63716	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that the jurisdiction of the NBS is numerous. When we talk about NBS, I want to point out that it participates in the development of relevant laws and regulations, which, among other things, aim to reduce the ability to launder money and finance terrorism through financial institutions that it controls. In the area of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, the National Bank of Serbia plays a double role -- as a regulator and as a supervisor. When terrorist funding sources are cut down, their capacity for violent activity, i.e. recruitment, training, arms procurement, explosives, drones, state-of-the-art equipment is reduced. Therefore, preventing money laundering is a fundamental pillar of a successful fight against any terrorism and extremism. It is therefore important that each country has precise, detailed laws, which prevent the flow of dirt, i.e. money laundered to terrorists. Serbia as an active participant in the global fight against terrorism is fully committed to the strong laws and their application and realization of its contribution to the international fight against terrorism. The role of the National Bank of Serbia is also inevitable and extremely, extremely important. Why am I talking about terrorism? I want to remind you of a few more things. In fact, it doesn't go a day without getting information through mass media about the activities of various groups, movements or individuals who take responsibility for victims that are often numbered for dozens, even hundreds. It is very sick, dear colleagues, that the names of these groups often contain "freedom" or something like that, are affirmative, but it is the fact that they are heavy and naked criminals, who under various excuses, explanations and excuses kill innocent people and represent the cancer-inflicted modern civilization. Under the pretext that the goal justifies the means, but also that human victims are irrelevant to them in achieving higher political goals. Modern society is forced to fright and expect attacks, mainly in urban areas, in public places, in malls, schools, religious facilities, large bus and railway stations, mostly ahead of large holidays when there are a lot of civilians and mostly where there are no ones who would respond to the attack against the attack. So, terrorism. The consequences of their activities are visible and we are all well-known, especially in this part of the Balkans, unfortunately. We only remember a number of members of the military and police, who were badly killed on duty throughout Kosovo and Metohija. We remember the Panda discotheque in Peća in 1998, when five Serbian youths were killed by villains. We remember a number of civilian victims and children who were killed on the doorstep on harvest and on the street. No matter how much the state has invested its resources and efforts to adequately oppose this evil, it is a fact that terrorism has become a pan-planetary problem, so that as an individual, the state is often unable to stand up in the right way. That is why co-operation between countries is necessary, and it is a good day-to-day, comprehensive co-operation. We all know that terrorists are solidarity with each other, helping each other, and so the government of the state must cooperate with each other to successfully fight this evil. Of course, it is necessary and necessary. The exchange of data on the movement of individuals and the movement of money, the monitoring of the activities of groups and movement and data exchange, as well as preventive action are necessary to make this evil stand in the way and in this context the National Bank of Serbia gives great, great importance. In voting day, SNS MPs will support all bill proposals, any agreement proposals, as well as a re-election of a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63717	Thank you, Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. Professor Marko Atlagic has the word. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63718	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I would like to say in the beginning that, as well as fellow Members of the other MPs from our party, I will vote as a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. Since we have heard contradictory statements today from some of the MPs when it comes to Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, let me say that with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, as an idea maker and engine of the momentum of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, Governor Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, as governor of the National Bank of Serbia belongs to one of the prominent places in the process that the Republic of Serbia is conducting. We who know her very well, and we know that she will give and give all her mind and physical abilities and skill to financially consolidate our country which has been brought by the former regime's party to the edge of financial and any other ambition. The former governor, Šoštic, mentioned today, is one of the people responsible for this financial and economic collapse of our country, I will not talk about it because we have already said in the previous part of the session. Today, however, we have a part of the economy professors who criticise and negatively express themselves on this financial improvement and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. One of them is Professor Ognje Radonjic at the Faculty of Philosophy who teaches the basics of the economy, otherwise known as the professor of torture. What's with the torture? Because it does so on behalf of its students at the Faculty of Philosophy, who daily tells lies about the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, the SNS, the MPs, about this high House. It's one of the usual coward professors who performs with the Alliance for Serbia in street protests as a street circus, instead of acting politically as a professor, yet at the sociology department teaching through political parties, but it probably gives an example to its students. Dear People's MPs, I'm now going to present a few truths about this professor at the Faculty of Philosophy. According to the students of the Faculty of Philosophy, it is one of the worst professors in their pedagogical characteristics and procedures and didactic values, and in my opinion, it is one of the worst professors in the history of the Faculty of Philosophy. He doesn't have any qualities to grace a professor in general, especially a professor at universities. In this professor, data on students' passability in the economics exam are kept as a state secret, believe it or not, in the 21st century. Can you, high school and elementary school teachers and universities, imagine that he keeps his grades on passing at the Faculty of Philosophy as a state secret? That's what his students say. The passing of the exam with this professor Radonjic, otherwise called "The Tortura", because he tortures students, is very low, which speaks of his pedagogical unwillingness to perform the world's role as professor. Its passing is somewhere below 15%, the lowest in the Republic of Serbia, and according to the Bologna Process, it must be the lowest of over 30%. Now you see who teaches everything at the Faculty of Philosophy. Now, look who's teaching everything at the Faculty of Philosophy. That professor runs torture on the students. I'll quote the student statements. When you answer too correctly, I quote, then he tells you – you've learned by heart. It's a finished quote. When it comes to the question – the genealogy of economic thought, no student has ever passed, because he always invents something that is not in question, which, of course, is not in accordance with the law or the assessment theory. The honourable MPs, for a whole group of questions, of 18 questions, have no literature at all, and when students ask him, he says – get on with it. Can you believe that in the 21st century there is such a professor as Professor Radonjic at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade? It's unimaginable, even though it's legally necessary to state the literature. I quote a former student, otherwise called Luka Sakic, who says there is a pathological need for Professor Radonjic to humiliate the student. It's a finished quote. I'm directing him, indeed, and the Department of the Faculty to direct him to medical examinations before he gets to the Faculty of Philosophy. She never responded to the remarks either to the Faculty's administration, nor to the Rectorate, although the student's objections were daily. He even tried the trustee on the protection of information. Of course, the rest is for nothing. It is the professor who daily defiles the president of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, the MPs and all that is being built in Serbia. In the end, he probably shows that he needs to be a professor of economics at the Department of Sociology. Instead of joining a political party, he's going with these street circuses and muddying his students. Indeed, the Faculty's Administration should make sure that a person in the image of Professor Ognjen Radonjic deserves to work with students. Under no law on the university, nor the pedagogical principles, and especially by the moral traits that each professor needs to grace, he really doesn't deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-13-0.u63719	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering, I conclude a unique search into the motion for a decision. Since we've conducted a unique search, we'll be deciding on a motion for a decision in the voting day. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. So, Thursday, November 14th at 10.00pm. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 71 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that we have a quorum and that we have the opportunity to continue our work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
