ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists during the minutes and the establishment of the agenda, and if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, extremely for Monday. Therefore, beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. We received the minutes of the Fourth and Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted a written application in the form of an objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held on 23, 24, 25, 28, 29 and 30 October. I conclude the vote: for – 123, v - one, abstention – one, seven of the 132 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, held on 12, 13 and 14 November 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 124, against - there are no abstentions - two, four of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, with the majority of votes. In the context of this session, which was presented with a content proposal for the sitting agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66139	This is truly amazing how much you do not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today. First of all, and first of all because of the public, this session was supposed to start at 10 o'clock, you didn't have a quorum, it was an obligation to open the session to tell the people that you weren't able to secure the quorum and delay the session by an hour. Well, if you don't have a quorum in an hour then the session has to be postponed for the next day. It's all good in article 88. Of course, you don't care about the Rules of Procedure, as you do now, as you don't care about the Rules of Procedure, how long I've been trying to distract myself from reporting to the Rules of Procedure, of course you didn't think to let me do it. So, fellow Arsic, gentlemen of the ruling majority, don't play around, remember this way some sages ended many years ago, if you're not able to secure the quorum then say it nicely, that's what the people need to know. You see among yourselves why you couldn't provide, what's going on in the ruling coalition, which is why you had to bring in today, to bring in MPs who until ten minutes ago were the alleged opposition to give you quorum today. That's something the public needs to know. We don't care that you're given the official quorum of Cank's party MPs, but we've been saying for a long time that he's actually your coalition, and you denied it. Today it was shown that we were right. We don't care what the quorum gives you. SMS, as they are called, they have stolen the mandates of foreigners on whose list they have come to the National Assembly and are now trading in stolen mandates and have given you quorum today, and in what way it is done, it will certainly be on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66140	My colleague Radeta, you have already said, I do not need to pronounce it, the right and obligation of every MP to participate in the work of the National Assembly and to insert his card for the electronic system when entering the National Assembly Hall. I respect your desire not to do this, but don't attack other MPs if they do. Otherwise, we're at the beginning of the day quorum, so... What did you say? We had a quorum. (The Faith of Radeta: When? ) At the beginning of the working day. You want to get to the Rules of Procedure. First MP, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly is made up of 250 MPs. The quorum, therefore, is decided by most votes, and the quorum makes 126 MPs to any party, whether the ruling, whether opposition. If the chairman, I'm advertising Article 107, Article 27, and so on, if you suspected the quorum was missing, you could have postponed the session. But since it was obvious that the quorum had, and that some MPs had forgotten to insert their cards into the MPs' units, then you could have the quorum by counting votes. Since you have not postponed the session, the previous MP has called for a provision relating to the fact that you should do only after the session has been postponed. Since you have not postponed the session, since you have now established the quorum electronically, there has been no count, the session is quite regular. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66142	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66143	First of all, you didn't ask me if I wanted to make a statement. Yeah, I want it for the other day when you didn't ask me. And now I'm advertising Article 1074 of attitude 1. It's just amazing how much you think you can make fools out of MPs and the public. Not that it's offensive what you're doing, this is insolence, insolence, I don't know what term to use. So, we have a meeting, the National Assembly session scheduled for December 9th starting at 10.00 hours. Signed by Maja Gojkovic, here it is. Are we officially informed that the beginning of the session is moving? We didn't. Did you have to realize at 10.00 you didn't have a quorum because you didn't have one? You had to. Did you have to postpone your session in an hour? You had to, you didn't do it. After an hour, did you manage to make an official coalition with Canca and this Macur and her stolen mandates? You had to, by coming to give you a quorum for today's session. And now someone here is going to convince us that the public would understand, like we have most of them, but what we didn't want to put in the cards, we forgot to put it in. Well, there's something wrong with your work if you're sitting here and you forgot to put your cards in. Don't make us messengers who don't know what they're doing. Admit it, what happened happened happens to everyone, especially when they're in a state the ruling majority is now in. So, the Rules of Procedure was injured, the dignity of the National Assembly was injured, the intelligence of the people was injured. Take care of the people, do what you have to do, but make it a little more elegant. Of course, I'm asking you to make a statement in the voting day about this injury and you don't have to explain anything to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66144	Thank you. Article 107 to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Member of the 127th National MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering an O.R. by entering a Parliament unit, i.e. to check out when leaving the O.R. Since some MPs haven't inserted their cards... (The Faith of Radeta: they should be shot.) ) There is no need for anyone, as you suggest to shoot it, the quorum was at 10 o'clock, with the fact that we could ask for the quorum to be determined by counting the MPs because we doubt the correctness of the electronic system. We've been waiting for the electronic system to stabilize and we're continuing to work further. You said you wanted the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 on Article 88. People's MPs are MPs whether they belong to ruling or opposition parties, to any parliamentary club or not belong to any of the MPs' clubs. The position of the 6th member of the 88th says: the existence of a quorum is determined by the application of an electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit. I guess it's obvious to both the viewers and you, that the ones who let them do what it says in attitude 6. You could, too, and you are not acting on the 9th president of the National Assembly may decide that the quorum is determined by the count of MPs in other cases. You didn't do it. Item six is very clear, every MP is required when he enters the O.R. to insert his card into the MP's unit. Those who did not do so are the most rebelling and they want to say that only the ruling MPs do the opposition. So, if we took it that way, we could make up a rule that those who don't put in a card to refuse their diary or that they can't participate in the work, etc. Where does it say that the ruling parties should provide the majority for the work of the National Assembly? Imagine that it is the first or any of the first sessions of the National Assembly, so who is the ruling majority there? It is the duty of all MPs to insert their card when they enter the O.R. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66146	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66147	Thank you, Chairman. According to Article 28, you are in charge of taking care of order at the session, please remind the MPs who are here to say that someone has stolen, traded or sold something, unless they have precise evidence written to show that the trade in influence, trade in terms of mandates and so forth. The sweetest thing is when radicals accuse us of being a false opposition, I believe that it is clear to everyone in Serbia what kind of radicals 30 years of opposition are and I ask you to prevent MPs from being insulted here, calling themselves thieves, especially by a party of MPs sitting in the hall for an hour and playing with the National Assembly by keeping their cards off the table, playing with the quorum and running some kind of tactics they think they're bringing them votes. So, if we're going to work, let's do it, so we don't have to make out with petty matchmaking, insertions, card extractions, and stuff like that. It's an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, if we're going to work, if we're not going to work, then get out of the O.R., hold a press conference and tell us why you won't work and why you're sitting in the O.R. without a card. What kind of game is it when you come to your job or not to come to your job? Please, this is not the first time we have listened to insults – thieves, traitors, robbers, and I don't know what. So that's not appropriate to the House of the National Assembly. Thank you. People's MPs are getting it. Here, and now they're getting - you stole a mandate. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes, you stole the mandate! (The Faith of Radeta: Right, you are. You're a thief! I'm a thief? Well done, radicals! Well done, you're a real opposition. Well done!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66148	Thank you. I'll take care of the remarks you've made in the future. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66149	First, just before he stole his mandate, he called on article 28 of the annual work programme of the National Assembly. I guess he's in the annual program that he's going to come here at some point to give you a quorum because you're out there, the transge-frange arrangement. Article 27(2) Mr. Arsic, what you allow to do is really inadmissible. It is unacceptable for you now, after 30 years of multilaterality in Serbia, to talk about how the opposition should give you a quorum, that it is the opposition that needs you to determine how many of you are in the hall and that we are now not doing our job because we are sitting here. We watched everyone you brought in, who you dragged in, who you called on the phone, I'm talking about yours, that's your right. It's also your right to buy these things that came today, the ones from SMS and the one who called earlier, that's the one who said that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. Shame on him, and God to me and you, when you burned to him that such a traitor gave you a quorum. He says he didn't steal the mandate. Stealing a mandate is the greatest kind of corruption and the most immoral thing a MP can do is steal a mandate. Whether he likes it or doesn't like it, it's true. The one who hadn't looked in here for three months, but when you agreed, then he started coming... (President: Fellow Members, you are now discussing the advertising of your colleague's Rules of Procedure. I explain to you what you do not want. (President: There's no need to explain it to me. ) Mr. Arsic, you didn't mind when this one just before, who says that Srebrenica was a genocide and that he stole a mandate, when he explained who we were, it didn't bother you. When he said we were sitting in the O.R. and we were going to get a match, or we weren't going to work. Listen, someone can tell us that we in the National Assembly want to or won't work, says the thief who stole the mandate and what three...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66150	Please, fellow Radeta, you can't call your colleagues that, you have no right to do that. It's that you're down in the MP's bench, you have all the rights of a MP, but don't forget that you're also vice president of the National Assembly, that's the first thing. The other thing, to be clear right away, no one here said that you had to put in cards, I was just reading the same provisions that you were calling on, so you can't take half of them, throw half. No, I don't. So the same provisions apply to all MPs, both to me and to you. There's no need for us to introduce service to count ourselves. We can keep working. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66151	I want to go after the Rules of Procedure, now under Rule 32. Yes, colleague Arsic, I am one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly, and it is my team that is more responsible to explain to the public how the National Assembly works. Unfortunately, the ruling majority's position is that as vice president of the largest opposition party from the SRS, I can't run the National Assembly sessions, because if I could, surely, some sessions would look different, you wouldn't allow it, and then my obligation and the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do so, and the function I received in the National Assembly obliges me to distract you from having to take care of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a mortal sin that you didn't have a quorum at 10:00. It's just that you have some problem between you, whether you're resolved or unsecured, your thing, but your obligation was, uh, your obligation, your colleague Arsic, to start a session and tell the public -- we don't have a quorum, to delay for an hour. After you say, we don't have a quorum again, we're postponing the session for tomorrow, because you didn't have a quorum until 11 o'clock and 17 minutes, and you were supposed to start at 12.00. At 11 o'clock and 17 minutes of quorum, you were given those who were obviously coalition partners, those with whom you made a matchmaking combination, according to this one who claims that Srebrenica was genocide...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66152	Don't insult your colleagues, my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66153	Comrade Arsic, please don't interrupt me. If I do anything wrong with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66154	I won't let you insult your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66155	... Give me a warning. Use it, brother, your rights, but don't deny mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66156	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) All right. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to identify the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find this proposal not accepted. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on and Amendment of Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66157	The state of Serbia needs to take more seriously family care, family care. Of course, we are aware of the fact that certain measures are being taken to help families with children. We are also aware that this is better than it used to be, but it is still far from what should be done in Serbia to strengthen the family, not to be surprised by the news that children from primary school do not leave the bookies, that we do not know how many percentages of high school students have become gamblers, etc. It's all the reason society doesn't care about family. It is not the only problem that Serbia is leaving, as it is common to say, young people, brain drains, etc., of course, it is a big problem, but an even bigger problem is that the whole family is leaving Serbia. Families take their children to the white world perfectly normal and natural, and once the family leaves Serbia, it is unlikely that they will ever return to Serbia again. Serbia must economically strengthen the Serbian family. We must not allow anyone, not a single man from Serbia to leave because there are no living conditions here. Of course, everyone has the right to choose where he thinks he's better off living, but we insist... You say this takes money, it takes money, it's not controversial, but there's something where they don't need any money. These are, say, changes to Family Law, where no one should pay anyone anything, just to change this member, so that our Serbian children, our Serbian children, are adopted by someone from abroad, because that's abandonment too. So, just born or a child who's a few months old or a couple of years old is going abroad because someone there adopts him. We don't know what's going on with that kid, how it's going on alive, whether they're making him white slaves, whether he's becoming a beggar on the street, whether he ends up a prostitute, whether he ends up a criminal who knows what kind. We have no knowledge of these children, and these children, as many as they are, someone may say that there are not many such children, that even one, we do not have the right to give up any single child, not one single man from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66158	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66159	Proposal to amend the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. Until today, we have had a hint of hope that you in power have a feeling that trading mandates is something that is most seriously jeopardizing democratic processes in Serbia, which threatens parliamentary democracy and we believed that you will not only wait for Kukan and Flakenstein to give you orders on what you should do, as you will do tomorrow on the agenda of those laws that you are formally changing, and you are essentially not doing anything, but we will talk about it tomorrow. So, we were hoping you'd understand, no matter what you have, there are those who became involved in the stolen mandates, but we did believe that in the meantime you had politically matured and that there was some chaos in the National Assembly that was happening precisely because of the stolen mandates, because of the results of the election, because of what Scott had been obeyed, so Boskovic introduced into the National Assembly, so today he wants to break up the National Assembly no less than the national flag. So they all think of blaming themselves. As it is said, as the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. It's your own fault that this is all happening in the National Assembly and you don't want to change anything and that's the essential problem. Instead of accepting our proposal to amend this law, not to allow, to return the constitutional provision, and not to allow that immorality in the National Assembly any more than trade terms, you are today, instead, to be brought to the National Assembly, to vote you by people sitting here on behalf of stolen mandates. So, the fact is that this SNS or not to say what kind of party it was, wasn't there, didn't participate in the elections, that the mandates were won in that party enough was enough and they are now trading mandates to the extent that they come and vote when they make a good deal and a good deal. So today you admit that you don't care about democracy, that parliamentary democracy absolutely doesn't mean that your parliamentary democracy is 127 green tasters. Bad, gentlemen of the government. Lodier, as all your bad moves have come to your head, believe me, and this will come back to you. The fact that you announced today that Canak is a coalition partner because his MP here gave you a quorum, is also something that you will have to answer to the public of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia. It's not a dispute. Be in a coalition with whoever you want, but don't deceive the people to say you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66160	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66161	This proposal has been in the process for more than a year during the regular session, and it is already the end of your term of office. Starting with Aleksandar Vukic, who promised this in his 2016 exhibition, he was then elected President of the Republic, Ana Brnabic and all others in charge of the issue, no one was adequately involved in the position, rights and above all the dissuaded Serbs from Montenegro. This was one of the basic reasons why we are seeking to amend and supplement this law, as more than 13 years of terror over Serbs in Montenegro by the mafia government of Milo Djukanovic. In 2006, when the Law on Citizenship was passed, we, as the opposition's largest political party, insisted that anyone who is Serbian and Serbian, no matter where he lives, and especially in Montenegro and Republika Srpska, once declared to recognise Serbia's state as its queen, gain the right to gain citizenship. This requires a copy of the birth certificate and a symbolic administrative fee. However, you have further disabled the Serbs from Montenegro, above all, to exercise their right to do so. Many of them are threatened by their families, because under Mil's regime they can't get a job, they can't educate their children. Serbs from Republika Srpska who do not have such problems, but over 50,000 have requested the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia over the past six years. The question arises, why does it take you two or three years if someone has the proper documentation and signed such a statement to get the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? Because of the impediment to the administration that's doing it, there's no other reason. If it's handed over through the consular office, then you don't do well consular representations. If that's what the M.O.P. area units do, then replace those commissioners. Gentlemen, that someone is waiting for one piece of paper, and you quickly knew that you were giving citizenship to the Republic of Serbia and thus showing your hypocrisy and not only that, but the Serbs from Montenegro will have many, many more problems. This was a way for them to be fully identified through the acquisition of citizenship with their queen and thus to prevent the further terror of Djukanovic and his mob authorities over them. Who knows how long it'll take you to figure it out, and you've left our countrymen for mercy and mercy... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66162	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66163	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders, which separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, were defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare Kosovo's and Metohija's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We do not blame the current regime for the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy thousands of members of its security forces on the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. It is the attitude of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that by adopting this law, which I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66164	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66165	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, to be completed on the agenda. Financial support to a family with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in the family with children who are unable to achieve themselves, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which has been defined as having the right to a child's and parent's allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. An extension of the time period of payment of the parental allowance, for a third child until the age of 18, instead of the age of 10, for a fourth child to 18 years of life instead of the age of 10, and for the fifth and the next child for whom the right to a parental allowance could not be achieved until the age of 18 would provide partial financial security for families with more children. Representatives of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have consistently ignored SRS proposals, but we will be persistent and will not give up the bill that can affect the improvement of certain areas of life. In this case, the area of childcare, more precisely the financial support of the family with children, this proposal for change and addition is comprehensive and accurate in the work in which children's and parental supplements are regulated. The adoption of these amendments, proposed by the SRS, would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's and parental allowances would be granted only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic's budget in the future. Will it continue as usual, or will it make a permanent redistribution of funds, by finally ending funding various NGOs and defining that money to pay off children's and parents' allowances in the way the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children? The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the massive trend of leaving Serbia. Young people leave, young married couples with small children... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... Those who leave will surely no longer return and should make every effort that they... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66166	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for more than a year as SRS MPs have been explaining their proposals neatly and patiently, supplementing every new session's agenda, and the ruling coalition's MPs are persistently rejecting it and not accepting it. My proposal to supplement the agenda refers to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. This is one very important law, because it regulates many issues concerning the health and safety of our citizens, and I add that it is deprived of all policies and ideologies, populism etc. The question of drugs is health, and only healthy society has a chance at success and development. We're becoming more and more drug addicts, cubes and alcohol. The other day on the front page of the daily newspaper "Blic" published the results of a survey saying that every teenager in Serbia is an addict, whether of drugs, whether of gambling, whether of alcohol, and lately it has been expressed so-called. Internet addiction. In the immediate vicinity of schools are cafes, casinos and bookshops, so that the school courtyards are abundant with gauze, and syringes and I appeal to all those who decide that the objects of this type cannot be located near schools within a distance of 500 meters. The introduction of a school cop didn't give the expected results. Even if he's engaged in two schools, and by the time he gets from one to the next, it's clear that the safety of children is compromised, because there are a number of drug dealers and drug dealers who are real masters and good psychologists to shape and design drugs nicely and better animated a minor gullible customer. As for collective drug-consuming sites, I will repeat that "Exit" is the most convincing in the first place, and I will give the information that in the days of the New Sad festival, the world's most high-end drug addict. Everyone knows that, everybody sees it, but it doesn't react, it only reacts to some death case we've had. A teenager from Paracino fell from the Petrovaradin Fortress and the Greeks who overdosed. Right after "Exita" there has been "Guča" lately, then come fans, elite clubs, cafes, rafts, estrada, schoolyards... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66168	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66169	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this time, as well as on several occasions in the proposal for a law on supplementing the agenda, the SRS proposed to find a bill on incentives in agriculture and rural development. The adoption of this proposal would significantly improve the position of our agricultural producer, as well as the development of this economic branch. This would show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the RES, cares about our agricultural producer and agricultural products that are certainly healthier than the products of the countries that impose Chapter 11, and by less imports of such and similar products, will raise doubts about the quality and presence itself, both chemical and genetically modified organisms. Our proposal concerns reducing the amount of milk per quarter, i.e. instead of 1,500 litres to 1,000 litres so that agricultural producers with difficult production conditions, where expensive food, machinery, are entitled to a premium. We suggested that the milk premium increase from seven dinars to ten dinars so far, and also for plant production where the amount of incentives so far was 6,000 dinars to increase to at least 9,000 dinars. If an SRS proposal were accepted, the agricultural producer would have more will and desire to invest as much as possible in agricultural production and thus its material position to improve. Through this supplement, I would like to draw attention to the ministry's poor organisation of veterinary services. This does not date from five, six years ago, but from the very poor privatisation of veterinary cells that even the Dossow authorities did today in certain municipalities in Serbia made poor veterinarians, so that the growing phenomenon of working on black, the use of antibiotics without control, and everything that degrades this service. This is a very serious problem when it comes to this service. In particular, in a conversation with the people of Bajina Basta, where they made remarks, where they sought five years ago that this municipality had a veterinary inspector based in Baja Basta, because it is a border area and that the border crossing has no control in this area. They have a problem with the examination of meat and milk, since it has several slaughterhouses and, of course, they have milk production. The veterinary inspector's headquarters for part of the Municipality of Zlatibor County is in Koserić, which is inconclusive and physically impossible to achieve. The Bayina Basta municipality has spoken to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Veterinary Administration several times, as well as the Sector... (Disabled 0-microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66170	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law on repealing the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked for the agenda of this session to be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. In fact, it is a very important area, in which today we can freely say that chaos is in place, and we are witnessing it almost daily. Today we have a situation where textbooks write each and every one of them, betrays each and every one of them. This is particularly important when it comes to textbooks that process national culture and national history. For the last week, we have in all the media, on all the social networks, stories about the seventh grade history textbook, where literally "The Blood Tax" is shown in a positive light, in some positive connotation. But I wouldn't talk about it, that's a lot of words. There's something even more dangerous than this. The Council of Europe has launched an initiative to write a joint history textbook for all countries of the old continent. The Paris conference, attended by our minister of education and discussed the subject, was recently held in Paris. A common history textbook would be the most tragic of Serbia and the Serbian people, because we know well what can be found in that textbook and who would write and who would lead the main word on the textbook. Even these history textbooks from which we, my generation and older, have been taught, and this textbook has been written by people who were not fond of the Serbian people, particularly Jirick and others, and we can imagine what would have just happened and what would happen if truly Serbia agreed and accepted that a joint history textbook was written for all European countries. Then we can think about how much we'd become officially genocide people. So there must be no deviation here, and the SRS thinks this is something like this cannot be accepted at any cost. This is just by having some experts in the area that will affect some of the wrongs of the documents, and what kind of experts from history we have seen in the case of this mentioned "Dank in Blood" and in the case of how wars of the 1990s appear. Some, unfortunately, call or quasi historians call it -- wars for Yugoslav heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66172	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on road safety, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Comrade Saviæ, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as this road safety law is concerned, when I saw four or five days ago that the government had released amendments and additions to that law in the procedure, I was pleased to think that the law proposed by the Government would finally cover and what I have been asking for for a year to correct itself in that law, that is, some inconsistencies and some inconsistencies. However, when I looked at the law that is in the procedure, which is likely to call to the end of this term and enter the Assembly and find myself on the agenda, I saw that there is no word about a member of 47 who regulates traffic at intersections. So someone from the traffic ministry didn't take it, didn't even consider what I was talking about and what the SRS insists on. And not only that, a large number of traffic experts insist that the regulation or the mentioned article 47, which regulates traffic at intersections, is unarranged and, on this basis, a member of the law cannot clearly determine who is the vinic of a possible car accident that will happen here. So it doesn't take any wisdom, no money, no overthinking. It just needs to be looked at, to change a couple, or, in the worst case, order of words in a sentence, so that there is no wrong interpretation and different interpretation, because the lawyers of this thing interprets in one way, traffic experts in another way and therefore there is disagreement and problems that are completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66174	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Stanković Đuričić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019, I put this proposal to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Seselj suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law on executive procedure and security, which was brought to the National Assembly by 22 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group, on 17 September 2019. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66175	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on enforcement and security is one of the worst DS flows in Serbia today. Therefore, the Law on Enforcement and Security in Serbia has introduced public enforcement officers who have usurped the jurisdiction of the court and now as private individuals, as private persons with the powers of the courts to manage the executions, and over the past eight years it has proved to be an open robbery of Serbian citizens, over-indebted citizens of Serbia under the full protection of the state, given that the perpetrators now view Serbian citizens' assets as hunting and strive as the easiest way to get to first of all real estate, housing units, and those who suffer are the most poor citizens of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, at a time when the opposition did not support this solution, was against public executioners, and after it came to power, we also saw in 2015, but also earlier this year that it widely supported public executioners and thus justified their existence and supported them for what they are doing in Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party has handed over more than 100,000 signed Serbian citizens collected in less than two months, so that the bill can be found on the agenda in the Assembly, which would change the situation in Serbia, which would be abolished by public executioners and which would return to courts. So the courts need to carry out and exercise jurisdiction. We want to point out that as the DS is sometimes, and so is the SNS today going through a line of less resistance, it does not want to settle the situation in our judiciary, to make the courts more efficient and to carry out the execution, and then it cannot endanger anyone's human rights, nor the right to a home, nor human dignity, but that only debts are paid in terms of what someone is obliged to do, and not that the state of Serbia through the MUP, so police support the uninterrupted kidnapping and robbery of public executioners. I warn the ruling majority that if they deny support for the debate on this topic, it supports public perpetrators and takes responsibility for everything they do today in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66176	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – the draft law on the repeal of the Law on Public Registration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you heard the SRS' position when it comes to public executioners. A similar view of the SRS is its view of abolishing public notebooks. Public notebooks did not give the expected results. Public notebooks are one new, therefore, group of people who are enormously rich. How is it possible for a public notebook to earn 100 million in a year and the salary of a judge is 90,000 or 100,000 dinars? Now you see what kind of position they're in and what balance they're in. Public notebooks are slower, significantly slower and more inefficient during the over-argument of our citizens. You have cases when a man comes from Vranj, he goes to Subotica to verify the purchase contract, they tell him there – give the documentation now, and come in three or seven days to verify the contract. That couldn't have happened in court. The court's costs are much lower for citizens of Serbia than those of public notebooks. Public notebooks are indeed one group that is rich and the SRS proposes to return powers to regular courts to verify documents and carry out those tasks that were very effective and successful before public notebooks were introduced. In addition, some public notebooks have become so arrogant to the citizens, as their clients who come to verify their IDs. There are cases of shagging, non-recognition of a document, repatriation of a document, reference to court that the court now determines whether or not one of the documents meets all or not. The time is now running out between the public notebook and the court and the court and the public notebook. So anyway, there's no room for them to survive anymore. So this is the product of DOS. This is the revolutionary justice that has been imposed on Serbia since 2000, and therefore Serbian radicals, just as Mr. Seselj said public executioners should be abolished, public notebooks should be abolished. They don't give the results that this people and our country need.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66178	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in a position to accept certain legal proposals from the EU's Zumbul, that during the night we have to pass laws, those that suit them, and unfortunately those laws that require Serbia to adopt are not, above all, those that protect the rights and obligations of our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about one system law. It's not about any supplementary or secondary laws. The Code of Criminal Procedure is a system law. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions of Article 19, and in that case I believe that it is necessary for parties to proceed equally. What does that mean? You have before the court to act as party public prosecutors, and you have as parties to act as citizens when they file private criminal charges or when they are injured in court. Their rights are not the same. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees that citizens have the same rights, however, according to the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, which they have changed as I mentioned, the 2000 revolutionaries do not give these rights to our citizens. Here's an example, if a public prosecutor doesn't come to the main investigation, the court will delay the main investigation and schedule it for a second term, but unless a private prosecutor comes to the main investigation, who filed a private criminal suit or appears in the main investigation as being damaged, in which case neither the injured, nor the private prosecutor has the right to continue to participate, because that is when the court makes a decision to suspend the proceedings. I am now asking you gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, in which the eyes of this nation stand – whether this is very important or not, and this is about the system law, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that all are equal before the law and the Constitution, and here, in particular, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not equal in the exercise of their rights. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed to the National Assembly this proposal to complement the parties equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66180	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2019. Here you go, Mr. Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66181	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have also suggested that one system law be amended and amended. This law is also important for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is about protecting lives, protecting their rights and protecting their good and the good of others. Therefore, I have proposed on behalf of the SRS that one change be made, so much so that Article 19(2) changes are made which would be said – it is necessary to defend what is necessary for the person to do from himself or another of his good or good others to refuse a simultaneous counter-attack. Item 3, I have suggested that it be changed – the perpetrator who has exceeded the limits of the necessary defence will be fined. However, after Article 3 I propose that a new position be adopted, which reads, this is very important for the citizens of Serbia and many who have experienced and who will experience, if there is no change in this law – if the perpetrator has exceeded the limits of the necessary defence due to intense irritation or fear caused by the attack, criminal responsibilities will be freed. The difference is that we propose, Serbian radicals, to protect citizens, to protect their lives, their families and their goods. Because what happens in practice, you have in force the law that if a court has exceeded its limits, it will ease the sentence. What does that mean? That he has the right to condemn him. That means, if he committed a crime for which a 20-year sentence is prescribed, he could be punished for 10 years in prison. Is it a mitigation sentence or is it a release from punishment? What happens in practice, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of murders from 2000 to today, tens of thousands of muggings, thousands of assaults, thousands of robberies of our fellow citizens and citizens are committed, and the state doesn't change the law that much, which will give the right to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia to kill a thief, robber, bully in his apartment, if he came to him at one hour tonight looking for money or life. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a system law. This is a law that needs to be changed. Here in Parliament there are respectable lawyers, I think they understood what I said, I understand those people who...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66182	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Sucho-insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on the Budgetary System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic on 8 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66183	Thank you, Chairman. The law on the Republic of Serbia's budgetary system envisions a maximum debt of the consolidated state of Serbia, including debt under the restitution obligation, that it can be 45%. At the same time, the law stipulates that if the state violates its own law, then the state must submit a plan that reduces the overall debt of the Republic of Serbia. It's one provision that, I say, in fact fully relativises the first provision of the law and, in some ways, that 45% serve nothing. Therefore, our proposal, the Modern Serbia Party, is to place 60% of the debt of the consolidated Serbian state for several reasons as the maximum. The first reason is that Serbia meets the convergence criteria at this point quite successfully, i.e. the criteria that are necessary for Serbia to become a member of the EU, which we hope will happen in the nearest time, to apply very soon after that for membership in the European Monetary Union and introduce the euro as Serbian money. By introducing the euro as a Serbian money, everyone knows that we would have a much higher profit than we have with the national currency dinar and we would probably have much lower interest rates and all the benefits of using one of the most creditable money in the world. On the other hand, we think that we shouldn't be more Catholic than the Pope, but we think that what's contained in the convergence criteria is a very good criterion. On the other hand, the state of Serbia would not be in a position to essentially, now I can't say a breach, because 45% of the text of the law is very relative, because the law in the next article says it can be broken, but we would have one provision that would be nailed by lightning in stone. In exceptional circumstances at the time of recession, states could act countercyclically and raise public debt and thus fight recession, and in years of expansion, such as the years in which we live now, the state would tend to reduce debt to a level that is somewhat lower, let's say that 45%. Oscillating the state debt between 45% and 60% would give quite enough space to run a countercyclical policy, meet convergence criteria and we have a more credible budget system in the Republic of Serbia at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66184	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Ljupka Mihajlovska suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Ljupka Mihajlovska and Tatjana Macura on 20 November 2019. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66185	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I am tasked today to try to convince you to support the proposal to put the law I have proposed on the agenda, and where I primarily suggest that if this law were passed, every list in the next parliamentary elections among the first 10 candidates should have a person with disabilities. So, for me, it's not about whether the next election will be boycotted or not boycotted, one day there will certainly be no boycott, even if it is now, but I'm afraid that even those who are boycotting and those who are not, if this is not adopted today, or not put on the agenda, will not have a person with disabilities on their first 10 candidates' lists. What am I proposing? If I didn't do it, if some evil languages thought I'd secure myself a place on a list, I'd be willing to say publicly that I would agree not to be on any of the lists if this assembly council adopted that law. In 2000, there were only 12% of women in our parliament, today it is 40%, of course, with the tendency to make this percentage even higher. As far as I have information, in Macedonia, the quota will be 50% of the women in parliament. What does it matter? We have come to the situation in these quota systems that, above all, in the local congregations, we have an affirmative number of women politicians who make an outstanding contribution and who have very professionally joined each topic. We are also being prepared on Saturday for a big conference of the Women's Parliamentary Network, where we will actually see whether the role of women on our political scene is real, or whether it is still just down to certain quotas, so how much of a woman's voice is really heard and respected in politics. I also think that when it comes to people with disabilities it is very important that we first try to equalise the participation of people with disabilities in Serbia's political life through the quota system. As you know, as in Serbia as in all other countries, there are 10% people with disabilities, and it is unrealistic to expect that someone who does not know what it is like to go into the city at night and time so that you do not spend more than two hours, because you have no place to go to the bathroom or have nothing to drive around and it costs you more than someone who has no disability, it is unrealistic to expect that someone will represent the rights and interests of this population if it is not personal. That is why I think it is important that we have representatives of persons with disabilities in this House, and that is different types of disability, because none of them can represent the interests of this population better than themselves. So I expect one person with disabilities on the next lists on each list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66186	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Vladimir Djuric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nemanja Radojević on 23 September 2019. Does MP Vladimir Djuric want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66187	Thank you, Chairman. In the proposal for a law on financing political activities, we have proposed several measures to change the system to which political entities in Serbia are financed. I would now draw attention to only one of the proposed measures, which is to change the percentage of tax revenues allocated to finance political entities at different levels of government. In fact, the law provides for a certain percentage that is allocated to fund election campaigns and to finance the regular work of political entities at a certain electoral level from tax revenues. It is not logical that all levels of government in Serbia have the same percentage of tax revenues, when these different levels of government in Serbia differ in the distribution of tax revenues. Then you have at the central republic's level the same percentage on a large scale that brings big money to political entities to finance their work, while at the regional and municipal level this same percentage applied on a negligiblely small basis, due to the low involvement of local government in tax revenues, brings funds to finance the work of these political entities that are completely insufficient, even for financing the most essential operational costs. So, we are faced with the situation that the political organisations that act, let's say, at the local municipal level, which have no ambition to participate at the republical and national level, because they are primarily focused on local policies, policies closer to citizens and their everyday life, even if they adopt mandates in municipal elections under the law of regulated public sources of funding for their real work cannot get enough resources even for the hire of an office, possible employment of a technical secretary or secretary, fixed phones, electricity, water, heating or internet connection, because it is prescribed that this one and the same percentage applied to a small share in the tax-based incomes of local government gives them insufficient funds. So we suggested that a redistribution be made so that a smaller percentage should be singled out at the central level and higher at the municipal level. In this way, we also think that the political system would be decentralised, because the municipal organisations of political entities would come up with some financial means that would enable them to work independently, not to depend on their party headquarters and wait for them to release money for rent or for internet connection. Of course, we also suggested that the total amount of money that is allocated on all these grounds be less than it is now, therefore, that money be allocated less and be redeployed in favour of the local level of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66188	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and products from GMOs. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66189	Thank you, Chairman. In the vicinity of the Pentagon, there is an agency called DARPA. It employs about 250 researchers, with a budget of about three billion dollars. One of the activities of these researchers is also genetic modification of soldiers, or humans. That was twice said by the ambassador of Syria to the United Nations Security Council, asking the Western Alliance to withdraw genetically modified soldiers from the Syrian wartime. I wonder if there are genetically modified personalities among our politicians. If not, I wonder why they do not support the declaration of genetically modified organisms that I submitted to this Assembly in 2017, which was unanimously supported by around 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities in Serbia. That's over four-fifths of local self-government. Presidents of certain municipalities and cities or mayors who were at the time of the adoption of that declaration, some of them are sitting here today in parliamentary benches. Despite the fact that they have then declared themselves and adhered to the general unanimous decision of their committees, today they do not want to accept a declaration which is the same content as that adopted in municipalities, unlike only one member, which reads: “The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia undertakes that, when adopting a new law on GMOs or amending the existing law, they will implement a referendum to declare whether or not they are for or against genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms.” Who is troubled by the declaration of the people, and who is afraid of the pleas of the people? Who is in the interest of Serbia becoming a market for imports and placement of genetically modified products and products from GMOs? What will happen if God does not give it, Serbia is back in economic blockade, such as 1991, 1995, 1998 and 2000, if they do not have the self-satisfaction of our food and destroy our seed production, our production of genetically unmodified products, and do not forget that Serbia is extremely well earned, because the largest exporting soy, which is not genetically modified, in Europe and one of the 10 countries of the largest corn exporters, which is not genetically modified. So I appeal to all of you, for your heirs, vote for this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66190	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66191	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished colleagues, on January 1st 2010, mean a little more than twenty days, will be natural for 10 years, since criminal courts have been introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. More than nine, soon, if we don't adopt this proposal and for the full 10 years, the judges who judge criminal matter, the receipts aren't even with their colleagues, who judge in other courts. I have no reason to explain it specifically, because it's clear to everyone what it means. It is not only an injustice, it is simply something that was a duty and obligation as early as 2010, when it was introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia, to be done. Obviously, the more time it goes by, the harder it gets to do, but honestly, I don't see any reason to speak against this law being passed. Among other things, I will say, only one thing, that only Belgrade's Criminal Court, by charging infringing fines, in 2018, brought a billion 222 million dinars into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The full income of all employees, not only judges, but full staff, at the Belgrade Criminal Court, is at an annual level of 465 million dinars. Practically, nearly 800 million dinars, in 2018, the Belgrade Criminal Court, included in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. To equalise their earnings, in the way they deserve it and bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, some 220 million are required on an annual basis. From all of this, it is clear that judges for violations are not a burden of this budget and that they have tripled and earned their wages by doing their job in a safe, up-to-date and congratulating manner. If in the Republic of Serbia's budget we find places for which NGOs, which work against the interests of the Republic of Serbia, then I really think there must be a place in the Republic of Serbia's budget for these people to receive the salaries they should have, as well as other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66192	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Bojan Torbica suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A little over two decades ago, NATO's alliance, without the UN Security Council's consent, opposed international law for no reason or cause, committed aggression against the SRJ. During an unequal fight against an disproportionate enemy of our military and police forces, during the two and a half months of heroic defenses, 753 were killed by 581 soldiers and 172 police officers. At the same time, over 2,500 were killed, and some 12,000 civilians were wounded. The exact number of people killed and wounded to this day has never been established. Most of the data we have available today was identified during the first year after NATO aggression, as a violent change of government in Serbia and a new puppet power began following the five-octobaric coup in 2000, adding to its Western mentors' attention to the consequences of NATO aggression. Representatives of the puppet authorities forget to determine the legal and exact number of victims of aggression, but do not forget to release more than 200 of the KLA's worst terrorists from prisons for some of the worst crimes against the civilian population, members of the military and police. What our public doesn't know is the fact that unlike Serbia in Republika Srpska since January 2013, there is also a Republic War, War Crimes Research Centre and a search for missing persons who will complete a large project to determine and publish the names of all victims of the Serb people during the 1991-1995 war in BiH. The names of the victim will be found early next year in a publication that will be published over a thousand pages, which will be the end of a very large job that required maximum seriousness and professionality so that one such document would be produced without any single error. In this way, for the first time in the history of the Serbian people, we will get a full documented list of all victims. A total of 34,930 victims will be reported in the publication. Looking at the authorities' relationship in Republika Srpska with all Serbian civil war victims in BiH, of course aware of the multiple number of war acts and fewer victims during NATO aggression in 1999, I appeal to this home without the need to form a special state body in Republika Srpska, adopt a proposal and make a decision to form a commission that would once and for all determine the exact number of dead and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression to put an end to this issue, look at the full size of the crimes committed against our citizens and prevent any relativeisation and revision of it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66194	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovski, Nenad Christmas on 25 September 2018. Here you go, fellow Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66195	Thank you, Your Honor. Now, I could start with my proposal to supplement the agenda as my colleague Komlenski said earlier, and I don't know what I'd like to say new to you except that it's clear. So, after 17 months of pushing for changes to happen in the Law on Family Financial Support with Children, I really think it's clear and that we can expect colleagues with a lot of understanding to understand the problem of mothers who have met in Serbia today with receiving compensation during maternity leave and leave due to child care less than a thousand dinars, many, and some few thousands of dinars. With that money, it's impossible to survive for a month. I would ask all my colleagues to ask if there are women in their immediate surroundings who are convicted of the application of this law. With this in mind, dear colleagues, I ask you and this time before the end of the fall session to support this Law on financial support for the family with children and to finally find it on the agenda of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66196	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 13, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the meeting – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Referendum and National Initiative, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs: Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 17 August 2018. Does anyone want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—there is. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence submitted to the National Assembly by MPs: Tatjana Macura, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković, 8 November 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—there is. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura proposed to complete the session agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66197	Once again, I thank you to the chairman. Today, I am very happy that we are coming to the meeting to discuss, among other things, the law on financing political activities. I proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that we form a survey committee and examine how donations were made in the 2017 presidential campaign, when around 7,000 citizens supported President Aleksandar Vukic's presidential campaign. It is a bit unusual or at least unusual, that 7,000 citizens support it this way and that they pay almost identical amounts of 40,000 dinars at the expense of one campaign, given the fact that there is no culture of donation of political activities in our country and that it is unusual and that it does not occur in periods outside the campaign. So if we want the electoral processes to be as democratic, fair and as they want to be and to paint the right picture of our society's thinking, we should really be as the National Assembly to deal with this problem as well. I, dear colleagues, ask you to support that the Serbian Assembly is forming a survey committee to question this issue and so that we do not come back into the situation if we have something we can freely call mysterious donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66198	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find this proposal not accepted. The National MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66199	Thank you. The proposal has been this year since September, but in fact the idea itself has been initial since last year when we discussed this Law on the Production and Transport of Weapons, and then in the form of an amendment, I proposed something that has now been converted into a proposal for amending and supplementing the law. With the circumstances, in recent months, this proposal has become unexpectedly relevant, given these affairs that are being intertwined and that are happening with regard to our dedicated industry, primarily the Kruškik affair, but it is not just Kruškik, Kruškik is more of a symbol and a summary name for a number of strange things about our arms industry and various interests and intrigues that are intertwined in this regard. Therefore, my proposal was put forward before all these affairs, going towards being out of such an important and sensitive state, both in every respect and internationally sensitive subject, such as production and sales, or arms trafficking, to exclude private intermediaries. It only sounds radical at first glance, essentially logical. If, for example, "Krusik", but of course other enterprises of the dedicated industry, has its own sales service and its commercial and it can make contracts, it has been selling arms for decades back, if there is an authorised state-owned company, it is "Jugoimport - SDPR", it means the authorised state-owned company and one and the other are now managed by the ruling party, or their personnel, but nevertheless, the state-owned company involved in the sale, arms trafficking, plus, as said - producers themselves can sell it directly. I don't see what we need even the intermediaries, so let's break our heads and see if we're investigating the truth and justice these months or actually attending some war of private suppliers who are fighting each other for bigger profits, and not breaking our heads about who dad, mom, brother, godfather, but that this important area stays in state hands, and these businesses, various texts, gigs and other, continue to deal with what they were dealing with originally when they were formed in the production of plastics to metal castings and so forth, so let them show their commercial and business abilities in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66200	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, the president of the citizens' initiative "Serbia, democracy, justice", launched in Kosovo Mitrovica, on 16 January 2018, submitted to the National Assembly by the People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic, on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66201	Yeah, but just for a little while, what one of your co-workers just said. There is nothing new to be said if most congregations do not see the need in terms of debt to Mr Ivanovic, and only what he has done for Serbs in the North of KiM and the KIM municipality, and given the tragic death and murder that is almost two years away, with a view to the manipulation and abuses that are involved in this murder, in which many centres are involved, I would say to the intelligence, political, spy, both in the country and abroad, so with a view to all this importance, I think that the least this Assembly, this Parliament, and also to say that the ruling majority can do for that Oliver Ivanovic is to offer one fair, impartial investigation and to say that everything has been done, that Serbia, to the extent that is possible and to which information and to have the possibility of influence and gathering information on the ground, has all made it possible that the investigation and truth about this torture of Oliverović, has appeared in the case. This leaves doubt or shadow in the interest of some, not only promised public factors, but also domestic factors to keep this truth hidden. So, I think this proposal of mine is exactly what the ruling majority's representatives should propose, and if they haven't already suggested, at least support the formation of such a polling committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66202	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic ads in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Finance and Political Activities, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Anti-Corruption Act and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 127, no – there are no, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 134. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 125, no – there are no, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 137. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. Proposed by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Funding of Political Activities, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Act, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, which was submitted by the Government and a Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Vice-Presidents of Citizens, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Nela Kuburovic, Justice Minister and Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government with associates. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the draft law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Eurostat. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) Mr. Minister... (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! I'm sorry, Mr. Rose. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66203	It's really amazing what's going on today. Well, you're breaking all the members, from 1 to 298. You have violated Article 88, colleague Arsic, in Section 5. Before the vote on the agenda, you were obliged to determine the quorum. I saw with my eyes that the colleague who came in was her system card. She came in and I watched if she'd click. She didn't click. So someone's already done it. So it's very dangerous what you're doing. What you're trying to solve by breaking the Rules of Procedure is something that is absolutely inadmissible. From the speed to finish, I don't know what either, you've been in violation of article 107 and insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. You kept talking -- it voted three, it voted five, it voted seven. Every time you have to say, five MPs voted. You have to take a little care of the dignity of the National Assembly, and not like that, five voted. Who's five? You can't do that, dear dear dear colleague Arsic. Your impatience I understand, your haste I understand, but some basic rules must be followed. You have to take care of dignity. One more thing, he's doing this to the public first. A moment ago, one of you said you weren't going to take a break today, which is also unacceptable, because you didn't have a quorum this morning. We don't complain, we can work for two days or I don't know how long without a break, it's not our problem and we prove it every day, but you didn't have a quorum this morning and they gave you a quorum... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66204	My colleague Radeta, it has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as well as that of article 88, that I am obliged to establish the quorum before the vote, since we have voted between each discussion on proposals for the agenda of certain points. Does this mean that every time a fellow MP explains the motion for his decision that should be on the agenda, I am obliged to determine the quorum? That never happened. I don't understand at what point are you asking me to determine the quorum? We're going from voting to voting every three minutes. And one more thing, colleague Radeta, I've been reading the results of the vote. For voting, say, five, against no one, abstentioned none of the 139, for example. So I informed the National Assembly of the results of the vote. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? And I want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66205	Now under Article 107(1). Let me tell you when to determine the quorum. It shall read in Article 88(5). – The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the day of voting, when the minutes are adopted and the agenda is set, as well as at the First Session of the National Assembly there is if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. How did you prove that there was a majority when you failed to reset the system and determine the existence of a sufficient number of MPs? You know, we doubt it. The next attitude warns us that we have the right to doubt and ask to vote if we suspect in the application of the electronic system. We suspect all of yours. After what you've done today, what you've revealed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66206	My colleague Radeta, you are truly going into an inappropriate manner. (Whispering Radeta: "Oh, yeah?" It is. We have determined that there is more than 126 MPs in the room, and we have immediately begun to decide. I ask you, does your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure mean that every time the National Assembly decides, even though it goes hand in hand... So as soon as the result of one decision is declared, it is put to the vote again, you ask that each time the National Assembly determines the quorum? That's how I understand it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66207	It's a business thing. I ask, fellow Arsic, that you behave and that you honor the MPs of the people. Those who yell "wow," I'm sorry, they came by the way obviously because they had to give the quorum, but we're here to work. So, you can't, this isn't a press conference, so you know when someone asks a reporter -- here, you tell me. You can't tell me that here when I think you need to determine the quorum. Exactly when it's written in the Rules of Procedure and exactly when I just read it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66208	Shall we quote, colleague Radeta?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66209	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66210	You want me to quote?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66211	I was quoting earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66212	No, there's no need. You quoted how you wanted it, and I'll quote it the way it really is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66213	Please, colleague Arsic...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66214	Please, Article 88(5) says: “The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the day of voting in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda, as well as at the first session of the National Assembly, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. ” Did we find that out? We did. I really don't understand. Not to say who to ask, not me. Oh, well. Mr. Rose, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66215	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this topic today is indeed of great importance and by signing the Agreement on Co-operation with EVROJAST, Serbia has taken another very important step forward on its path to the EU. The Republic of Serbia's co-operation with the representatives of EVROJAST was established as early as 2007, and so far, the co-operation has taken place through two contacts between the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice. However, the co-operation through contact points was one-way, i.e. the MEPs referred to the applicant, the emergency and the enquiries to the Republic of Serbia, and the contact points were obliged to respond without being able to seek the same thing through MEPs. The obstacle to improving and intensifying co-operation was the laws of the Republic of Serbia which were necessary after the adoption of laws such as, above all, the Law on Private Security, the Law on Detective Action, then the Information Security Act, but also the fulfilment of certain technical conditions such as the making of so-called. "legal atlas", as a basic condition for improving co-operation with EVROJAST, remains the adoption of a new personal data protection law. Such a request was expected, given that EVROJAST is paying great attention to the protection of personal data, and that it is necessary for each other to have an adequate level of protection of such data. The last obstacle was removed by the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act adopted on 9 November 2018. Before that, of course, the comments of EVROJAST and the European Commission were made. The signing of this agreement means that the Republic of Serbia shares the same values and has set the same goals and tasks set for itself by EVROJAST. Judicial and police co-operation in international frameworks is precisely one of the most effective mechanisms to counter the most difficult forms of crime, which appear in modern society, especially given that crime, as we all know, does not know the state borders. According to EVROJAST data in the period from January 2015 to the end of October of this year, so in 2019, Serbia and EVROJAST worked together on 143 cases involving serious forms of organised crime and crimes from money laundering and drug trafficking, then criminal acts of fraud, as well as against lives and bodies and personal freedoms. Serbia participated in six joint investigation teams mainly dealing with drug trafficking, attended the 23-co-ordination meeting of the EUROJAST. According to the same data, the Republic of Serbia has been in five or five non-EU countries over the past few years, with which EVROJAST has achieved the most extensive and efficient co-operation. Confirming the Agreement on Co-operation with EVROJAST will enable even more effective co-operation in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and any other security risks all societies, including ours, face. With this agreement, Serbia has significantly strengthened its capacities in the fight against organised and transnational crime by allowing access and direct exchange of information with colleagues from other EU countries. Serbia will be able to exchange personal data and evidence with prosecutors and other competent authorities from all over Europe and will be able to appoint its EVROJAST liaison officer in the near future, who will now represent the necessary point of co-operation. It should be noted, of course, that the Ministry of Justice continues to act as the central authority for the application of bilateral and multilateral contracts in the area of international legal aid in criminal matters, and that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office is given greater jurisdiction by confirming this agreement. Confirmation of this agreement has realised a transitional criterion and a common EU negotiating position for Chapter 24 and has thus taken a major step towards future direct co-operation by judicial authorities, which will be required by the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66216	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Just a moment to see if the lists of MPs who applied for the discussion have been prepared. Dear People's MPs, I have been informed by the service that in about two to three minutes, a list of registered members of the debate on this agenda will be available and we will be able to continue our work. [[After a break.]] Thank you. We'll continue with further work. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not here either. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66218	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you're giving up power from the regime to discuss the laws, that doesn't mean we're out of the opposition. Many hoped we wouldn't make it, but we did. I hope, Mr. Rose, that you in the discussion will have a little more to tell us than what you said in your opening statement, because I don't think it's correct. You've been a folk MP and you know very well that it's not exactly instructions that the minister just repeats the first few sentences in the reasoning of the law that we have anyway. If you thought we hadn't read the material, you've been wrong, you've had enough experience, you know that we're reading it, and the minister's function would be to give some further explanations. Given that the ministers in the previous period were mostly pretending to be dead and not answering any questions, I hope that you will be something more active today. You know very well that the Serbian Radical Party is against these so-called. Eurointegration and against Serbia's entry into the EU, above all, due to the fact that most EU countries are openly hostile to the Republic of Serbia, that they do not respect our sovereignty or territorial integrity and that, as a rule, all the obligations that Serbia has are required to meet, and virtually none of the EU obligations towards us are fulfilled. You are proposing today that Serbia is building some new partnership, that we are fighting terrorism and serious forms of crime together, and this is certainly a good opportunity to consider how those forms of association we already have work, above all Interpol. Can you tell us, Mr. Ruzic, how many times has it been for certain individuals to be arrested on red warrants, issued by Serbia, and then not to comply with the agreement delivered to Serbia? And to tell us the comparative data, in how many cases did Serbia, in accordance with the protocols it signed with Interpol, arrest certain persons and deliver them to the states that signed those red warrants? Why do I ask you that? Here, I can see that you're nodding, you're folding your shoulders, and you're saying you don't have that information. Here is the question - why should we accept new obligations if it is clear that Western countries do not meet any obligations towards Serbia? If we start from Resolution 1244 as the most important one, which guarantees both the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia over Kosovo and Metohija, never obligations that are in favour of Serbia, in favour of the Serb people, and above all the return of a number of soldiers and police officers, the establishment of a customs service by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia has never been achieved. If things were worse and for your shame and for the government that you belong to to be even greater, I'd like to hear when did you last ask to meet those obligations that are valid? You know that very well. As you allegedly negotiate some kind of compromise, I hope you will never achieve it, because the compromise certainly cannot be in the interest of the Serbian people, nor can a compromise be made in the state. The state either you do or you don't. Many times, Cypriot criminals or Ustasha criminals have been arrested right in the Western countries, but none have ever been delivered to the Republic of Serbia. The question arises – why does Serbia continue to meet its obligations neatly, if no one else is able and is obliged to fulfill anything that goes in our favor? You signed the CEFTA agreement, or the ruling majority, perhaps not the government where you sit, but the ruling majority and the party you belong to. It has been more than a year, Mr Ruzic, since Pristina introduced a 10% tax and then 100% on all Serbian products, in breach of the CEFTA agreement signed by UNMIK. We have heard an announcement from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, that, after a 90-day deadline, and that is the deadline within which the problem can and should be resolved, unless the problem is resolved, Serbia will appeal to the CEFTA competent court, the arbitration court. I ask you, Mr. Ruzic, did Serbia press charges? I'm not sure that Mr. Ruzic can hear me from the noise in the O.R., so I'm going to repeat one more time - is it in line with the announcements we heard in the public that Serbia filed an arbitration suit, that is, the CEFTA arbitration court suit for the taxis that Pristina imposed on products coming from Serbia? If so, when was this lawsuit filed? If it isn't, why isn't such a lawsuit filed? You, Mr. Ruzic, signed the Brussels Agreement and those agreements, despite the fact that the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia at the time convinced the citizens that it was a great day, that it was a day for celebration, that the citizens of Serbia and especially those living in Kosovo and Metohija should rejoice, the applause expert Marko Djuric said that we had won the five zero Shiptarian sides in those negotiations... However, the obligations set out in the agreement mainly applied to Serbia, Serbia fulfilled all its obligations, and the Cypriot side had only one obligation, which is to form a Serb municipality community that is again, despite what you say in power, somewhere at the level of an NGO. Your empty stories that this organization is supposed to have a coat of arms, an anthem and a flag mean absolutely nothing, because any NGO can have its emblem, it can have an anthem, a solemn song, whatever you call it, but it can't have any authority. Nor could this community of Serb municipalities, which has no authority at all, be formed either because, upon returning from the negotiations, the same ones with whom you negotiated submitted a request so-called. The constitutional court of Kosovo which has found that it is not in accordance with their constitution and that they have no obligation to do so. Why does no one from the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ruzic, insist before continuing to negotiate that the first Cypriot side fulfils already commitments, not because in this way Serbia's citizens will be better at KIM, not because they will be safer, not because they will thus be provided with freedom of movement, but because it is obvious that the scepters do not want to do so and that is the best reason why they should insist on it? You of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have warned in time that if so-called Kosovo will form an army, contrary to Resolution 1244 and all international documents, that Serbia will not move forward until the decision is withdrawn. As we can see, of all these conditions "condicio son of quanton" conditions without which it was impossible to continue negotiations, it has occurred that now the officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia only point out that negotiations cannot be continued until taxes have been withdrawn. Are taxes more important than the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Are they more important than the UN Resolution? I don't think so. All these reasons why, Mr. Ruzic, no new international obligations should be undertaken until the Western, hostile states, which take away our kiM, begin to meet their obligations to Serbia. You're responsible for Serbia's international reputation being ugly. If it weren't for scrupulous, they would have fulfilled their obligations to Serbia, and having found suitable soil and people who are enough to be patted on the shoulder like little Djikica and say – you're very good, you're very beautiful, you're very smart, you're very good at fulfilling the orders you get from us, it's not enough for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66219	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a bill like this, proposed to sign it in the form of an agreement, I must say that Serbia is losing sovereignty in terms of reforming its legal system and losing the sovereignty of its right to regulate the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. When you look at this proposal, you'll see what this proposal is proposing. First, here is the proposer of the Ministry of Justice, and here today the representatives of the Ministry of Justice are supposed to defend themselves against the MPs of this bill. However, we do not see this agenda point representing and proposing. However, it is not important and the present minister can in any case give specific reasons on the proposal for this law. This agreement is not good for the Republic of Serbia, it is not good for reasons that Serbia will not be in an equal position when it comes to the application of the law. The main objective, which this proposal aims to achieve, is to curb serious crime and combat terrorism. I don't think the EU, against which Serbian radicals are against, is going to do us any good. This law extends the assets of pro-Western countries and enemies of the Republic of Serbia. Look what they're looking for now. As you can see, the government accepts it immediately. It's supposed to be a college here. What's this college gonna do? Who's supposed to do it? It's not clear. Who is this national member? It's not clear. What's his job, and what's his function? What decisions should he make? What's a deputy supposed to have if he's a member of a national being to have a deputy, to have an assistant? When we're on the subject of a liaison prosecutor, why do we need a liaison prosecutor? He'll be a foreign intelligence agent. That's what I'm telling you. What's the judge doing here in this case? What's that judge gonna do? Serbia has the Ministry of Justice and it has established a policy to provide international assistance, and this falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry alone, and not now to make inflation of any other auxiliary bodies that should be involved, and in fact do not produce any desired result according to the Republic of Serbia. The judicial authorities now that the EU, some EU zoomulo or some EU commissioner or official is looking for information about the minister and that, born in Uzic, from the criminal record of the Uzic prosecutor, from the investigating judge in Uzic, on the information for that minister or for that citizen. That absolutely shouldn't allow it. Not at all. Who's setting up the D.A.'s liaison, and who's setting up the judge? In Article 5(4), the EU, as its founder, says it will provide funds for the work of the special facilitator, the liaison prosecutor and the judge and his deputy and his assistant, and will also provide infrastructure, provide rooms, provide salaries and technical means to work with. However, what will happen since this Article 5 predicts that the judge and the prosecutor may propose that he be elected and that they determine him? This is in Article 5, in the last position, so provided. However, he says no compensation will be applied in the event that Eurostat sets up a judge for a relationship. What do you mean, they can set up a judge with us? No way. Are we the rule of law? This House elects judges. This House elects prosecutors. Speaking of the number of prosecutors and special judges, I don't know how many Serbia has special prosecutors and special courts. It costs the state and taxpayers very much, regardless of your favor and great co-operation to co-operate with the EU and its authorities, but it costs Serbia a lot. So, the judge for the relationship. They'll all be agents of foreign intelligence. The exchange of information. Look, when we exchange information, we'll have big abuses, open doors for abuses. They will ask us for information for every MP, for every judge and for every prosecutor, for every citizen who thinks or says anything against the EU. For him, they'll ask for the number of red and white blood cells. Now, that's what the CIA and her organs are going to be looking for. Gentlemen of the government, you are regularly tapped via satellite. And not only are you, listening to all the MPs, even some officials and staff in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you think that we are a democratic state and that in this democratic state, we should now allow these hohstuplers from the EU so that they can occupy both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and other resources in which they have installed their agents in all the institutions. If I'm wrong, since the year 2000, when the dosmanias came to power, let's see what resources were all deployed primarily by liaison officers and foreign intelligence agents. It's full of government and its resolutions from these criminals and these intelligence bastards from the CIA and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about serious crime, well, gentlemen who are in power, you have 2,280 privatisations, where at least five billion euros are damaged by the state of the Republic of Serbia. There's a serious crime. Why not initiate the review procedure for these privatisations? Why doesn't this people take away their property from the thieves who are sick, to take away everything that he hasn't acquired, and what he has acquired, of course, what he has invested, give him, but without interest. Ladies and gentlemen, serious crime. You have a serious medical crime. You've got a billion and 30m-euro robbery in a panic pharmacy. Gentlemen, was anyone from the current government involved in embezzlement and robbery? That, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, check it out. How is it possible for the director of the Pančeva pharmacy to first propose from Velimir Ilic's party, from Cačka, to come to Pančevo to be the director of the pharmacy, and Pančevo has 700 pharmacists and doctors, but no one could be the director. Secondly, when this director and the lady 50% robbed the pharmacy, she comes now, DOS sets up from the Užica director of the pharmacy in Pancheva, who finished it, and that lady from Užica buys on Zlatibor and on Divcibar villas and apartments, but there is no money. And what happens now? Is that heavy corruption? It can't be ugly and harder. How is it possible that those in the pharmacy are buying products and medicines from suppliers, but they don't bring goods and medicines into panic pharmacies, but they sell drugs to other pharmacies and they put money in their pocket. Gentlemen of the coalition in power, you have a serious crime at the bar. You have to deal with criminals at the crime scene. It's about time. Here's a concrete example of Panchev. Will someone answer and ask - where are the money from the panic pharmacy and at the height of a billion and 30 million dinars? Will someone be responsible for that sports hall that the yellow ones made, in Pancheva, that cost 400 million for the University, and there's nothing out of it, and now there's a mockery in the town of Pancheva, it doesn't finish, but criminals took the money and put it in their pocket. It's time, ladies and gentlemen, that these tycoons and these thieves, as they came to the property of our citizens and the workers who created that property, must be taken away from them, you'll have to take it off naked and dump it from the factory that he robbed and kidnapped. Today he manages, and does not pay any contributions, does not pay other taxes to the public sector. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asking for six months by the Ministry of Agriculture to answer how many states of Serbia have state agricultural land? That data is hidden, no record of it being provided. Why? Well, you'll see that thieves, tycoons, took state agricultural land for rent without paying for years. And who's tolerating it now? Current power. Gentlemen, you are in power. How could you allow the import of meat from the EU, from the freezer? Import waste. You allow criminals to import meat and sell to this people, which is waste in the EU, in the freezers for 20 years, in a state of decomposition, but that's why they import. You have a "Golden Fighter" who doesn't have a slaughterhouse. Ask him where he got hundreds of wagons that he imported through a Shiptar lobby from Albania and Kosovo and Montenegro. "Matijevic" how did he get rich? How can this guy make salters on his mouth? Who's that? Where did this guy come from? Is that American? Is it someone who has hundreds of billions so he can come to Serbia and make those solos and floors? It's a good thing the state says that. Everything the state does and does is good. It's a good thing that roads are being made, that railways are being built, that they are investing in health care and education. But we finally have to deal with thieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66221	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66222	How much time is left, Arsic? (President: three minutes and 10 seconds. ) This is about Chapter 24 and the Government is in a hurry to create an opportunity to open this chapter by adopting this law, and this has already been repeatedly seen, several times told stories. We are opening chapters with hope and faith that we will join the EU. What is a big problem for Serbia, and in some ways the most direct issue of this law, the bill, or the Agreement, is that corruption continues to flourish in Serbia, and the government is silent. The ministers are still taking the troubles on individual projects, 300, 200, 150 million each, and the government is silent. The government thinks it will cover the malversions that individual government ministers are dealing with by joining the EU in the fight against terrorism. That's funny. Terrorism is something that came from the kitchen and labs of the intelligence service of America and the Western European countries. All more or less terrorists are trained by the intelligence services of America and some Western European countries. When I say some, first of all, I mean England, Germany, France, and that's common knowledge. Are we so blind with eyes that we simply don't see that this whole struggle and the principle of mood to prevent this terrorism has in the extreme case that terrorism is being conducted in certain cases and situations? We had Syria, the best example, where terrorists under the direct control of US intelligence had a certain role to play in not a small number of Russian-Syria armed forces, so that Americans could eventually achieve some financial and other advantages, and that Russia would spend significantly, financially, empty, due to war and conflict in Syria. That's quite clear. We now expect that this agreement will result in the extradition of jihadists, that those terrorists in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, who came from Syria, will be delivered and controlled. No, they'll always be ready to take action at the moment, at the mark of the west. When will it be Serbia on strike? When it's assessed by the intelligence departments of the West and America. Then Serbia will be hit. Do you think this agreement will help Serbia avoid it? No, he's not going to escape this deal in any way. We have seen many times so far, everything signed in the form of an agreement, in the form of contracts or some other acts, interpreted by the West and America as they will, by the Brussels Agreement, by all the major agreements that have been signed. We've seen how it's interpreted. When it is willing and in favour of the West, certain provisions are applied, and when Serbia is literally to be held back, to destroy Serbia, in a way to discredit, then an agreement is put out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66223	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately for our great regrets in Serbia for a long time all that has the prefix "euro" or "euro" is automatically considered to be something that is good, something that is desirable, which is necessary and therefore, it is, in itself, a promotion for our country, no matter in which particular area it is something "euro" that is now coming to Serbia. And so on this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Eurostat. There's a question of reason for that. We can hear every time something comes from the EU the same kind of floscule. In this way our judiciary, our Ministry of the Interior, will come to European standards, we will now be true Europeans, etc., but it seems the general impression is that, above all, the leaders of the largest ruling parties, ministers in the government are not very aware of the reality of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the EU. We have been negotiating Serbia's EU membership for 19 years, and, Mr. Minister, your party has been involved, I think, for 16 years. Are we closer to the EU today than we were in 2000? We didn't. What did we have to do on that road? First of all, we had to complete our co-operation with The Hague tribunal, arrest and deliver our entire military and political summit, even the president of the state. The former president of your party, because of this co-operation with the EU, had to be arrested and delivered to The Hague in 2001. It was one of the conditions for Serbia and the EU's co-operation, you were against it at the time, today you support it. After that, we had a situation where the EU, as an organisation, appeared as the main sponsor of the so-called independence. The republic of Kosovo to violate, without any excuse, not only the Constitution of Serbia and the international Security Council resolution, so international law 1244 and support Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence and to install the Eulex system there to help build Kosovo institutions. All of this forces Serbia to reconcile with this independence, to recognise this independence and thus make the state of Serbia an accomplice to the creation of a false terrorist republic of Kosovo. Of course, after all, as always when it comes to this international community, only lies come, empty promises, and we could see this at the most recent time in the case of EU relations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. So, of course, a statement by the President of France, otherwise one of the most powerful figures in today's EU, which clearly said at the European Parliament's plenary, that the EU will no longer expand, that the EU does not know what it will do with the remaining 27 Member States when the UK leaves the EU and that the EU is going through reforms of the existing state, not the admission of new members. Of course, we didn't take that as a complete blockade. We know better here than they do when we're going to join the EU and we haven't done anything about it. Serbia is required to sign a legally binding agreement with so-called. Kosovo's republic, which will allow membership in the UN so-called the Republic of Kosovo, and in return we need to be admitted to the EU by some imaginary date in 2025. Well, as an example and as an example of the EU's relationship to us, we need what happened after the so-called signing. A prespanish agreement between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which officially changed Macedonia's name. Northern Macedonia and Albania stayed at the EU door, directly from Brussels agreed to open negotiations with them, with Macedonians when they sign such an agreement with Greece. So it hasn't been more than a few months. How can we be confident and where our guarantee is that it will not be the same with Serbia if Serbia suppresses legally binding an agreement with Kosovo. Not only will Serbia agree in this way with Kosovo's membership to the UN, but it will officially seal the occupation's recognition of an illegal secession of 15% of its territory. That should be enough reason for us to take everything that comes from the EU with a reserve, to consider, to see if there are any good things for us or no good things for us, not just by the system, to accept everything that comes just to satisfy the conditions of this chapter or that chapter. That should be the first thing and the most important thing. Is it more important that we open and close a chapter or see to it that Serbia's territorial integrity is preserved? I think it's more important than that. What is our latest coming from the EU? The latest is so-called. A community of Balkan states "small Schengen" or the Balkan Union. And that's one sign that the EU doesn't want us. They wouldn't force us into the Balkan Union, they wouldn't force us into "little Schengen", they wouldn't tell us that there's actually the future of our development in the Union with Albania and Northern Macedonia, if they really understood us as candidates and some future EU members in the perspective. Has every man who has advocated the last 20 years for the EU in Serbia, the one who has advocated Serbia's EU membership, been satisfied today that of all this, the whole European integration story has come to Serbia being a member of the Balkan Union, the "little Schengen" with Albania and Northern Macedonia? I don't think so. This is what is currently the situation in our relations with the European Union and this justification today for ratifying such an agreement cannot be an improvement in anything between Serbia and the European Union, because it does not represent it. What else comes to us as a request from the European Union? Change of constitution, in two areas. First it's the judiciary. So, instead of Serbia, which should have, of course, a constitutionally established division of legislative, executive and judicial authority, it now needs to make some legal acrobatics, so that future judges are not elected in parliament, because, of course, it is the influence of justice policy. It is as if the Serbian parliament acts as one monolith, that there are no 250 people, that there are no exactly how many parliamentary groups, that everyone here has no opinion, but that they all have an impact on the choice of judges together. So, one huge denses. And in this way, it is, like, preventing the politicisation of the judiciary, and no one remembered that politicisation of the judiciary might exist through the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary. Is that a basic problem in our country? We see how this government, this government in Serbia, has been treating the judiciary and even in the last few days. So today, did the vice president of the ruling party file criminal charges against the President of the Republic? Imagine that madness now. And that's our main signal that this executive authority is referring to Serbia's judiciary. It's a humiliation to the judiciary. The man says, even though he knows that Vukic is not guilty, so whatever, he will file a criminal case against him, let the court determine. So he's knowingly falsely reporting a man who's usually a lawyer. So this is the relationship between SNS and its coalition partners to Serbia's judiciary. Is that progress? Is that something we should brag about? They won't let us choose judges in parliaments, we should now invent some working bodies to elect judges, by some cabinets, according to which principles the judges will choose now. They make it impossible for the public to elect judges because the public is what should guarantee quality in that election, and we have that if the judges are elected in parliaments. We only compare Serbia with the most powerful state of the European Union to Germany, which in the federal parliament chooses judges for the federal level, in the province parliaments chooses judges for the province level, and then it is assessed by the Venice Commission as something that is good, and when Serbia does the same, in parliament chooses judges, then it is bad, then we need to modernise, something that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. There, it is the European Union's relationship to the issues of our Constitution. What is it that still comes as a request from the European Union, as regards changing the Constitution? It's an outcast of Kosovo and Metohija from the preamble. Why would they hide it? That's not what those Europeans who ask us to do. There will always be pressure from the European Union to make peace with Kosovo's independence, to once and for all, and this will happen if we sign a legally binding agreement, give up its territory, and therefore need to change the constitution. These are the conditions of the European Union. Are we ready to accept something like that? When are we going to hear some comment on these allegations coming from Brussels? We see that the government in Serbia has trampled the Constitution on several occasions, the SRS has submitted to the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court declares the constitutionality of Brussels agreements that knowingly violate Serbia's Constitution. The Constitutional Court has said under political pressure that these agreements are political, although they produce legal consequences, and these are the consequences of absolutely abolishing all Serbian institutions in northern Kosovo, these are the legal consequences of the Brussels Agreement, which we have applied, did everything they asked of us from the West, and the Cypriots have not applied any of the only provisions that apply to them, which is the formation of so-called. Serb municipalities' communities. And we continue to negotiate with the European Union, as if nothing had happened. Terrorist power in Pristina has introduced customs regimes, i.e. A goods taxi from central Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here we complained, Mrs. Brnabic said she would invite CEFTA to plead within 90 days. It's been over a year, and we haven't done anything, nor has CEFTA done anything, but now we're skipping it all, forget it as if it wasn't nothing, and we want to go to little Schengen, along with that same republic of Kosovo, to legitimize, of course, Kosovo as an independent state that's next to us. Right? It is the epilogue of our negotiations with the European Union. Is this a basic problem in Serbia perhaps now that we need to make a statement, to see if it is really so necessary for Serbia. The SRS doesn't think so. The European Union today does not represent the organisation that was formed in 1992 in Mastricht, the European Union is on the way today, the European Union is going towards its disintegration and therefore small Schengen is being formed because it is the European Union for the poor, for Albania, for Serbia and for Northern Macedonia. That's our European perspective today. I have one question to ask, have you and your colleagues in the government been informed of anything that your ministry and the Department of Justice are doing? Do you live in Serbia? Do you inform yourself by means of public information? Did the National Assembly inform you that in less than two months, the SRS has handed over more than a hundred thousand signatures from Serbian citizens to abolish public executioners? In less than two months. Mrs. Kuburovic, who is here for every criticism, was directed to introduce a life sentence without the right to pardon -- yes, you are, you are all right, that is exactly what you are talking about, but 150 thousand Serbian citizens signed this petition and so on. Are some citizens in Serbia more valuable than others? I know your opinion, Mr. Rose. You, as a MP at the time of the SPS and DS, voted for the introduction of public executioners, your party supported it. The Serbian Progressive Party did not support it at the time of the opposition, and today, we saw it supported. This is what we saw in 2015, we saw in 2019, earlier this year the amendments of the Law were supported by advancers. Today in Serbia, we have an organized group of about 200 people who are only interested in the real estate of the poorest, overindebted citizens of Serbia. That's what they think of their prey, they have full support for the M.O.P., they move everywhere with the police. Absolutely, the honor of exceptions doesn't have moral scruples, they're able to charge even from some debtors' wheelchairs, we've had cases like that, single parents drive themselves out into the street, and that's what all states support today. Mrs. Kuburovic said the perpetrators paid a billion dinars in six months this year under the name VAT. That means it's 20% of their turnover in half a year. If all this is in the works why the state of Serbia knowingly gave up more than four billion dinars in six months as much as it could make, to earn, because of some private people who have usurped judicial jurisdiction and because of them, the largest number of Serbian citizens suffer terror. The Serbian Radical Party has always made it clear that debts must be paid. Everyone has to pay what's due, but if someone's in debt doesn't mean they need to be robbed, they need to be kicked out into the street, and they need to be taken black under his fingernails. Everyone must remain guaranteed a minimum of 12 squares per member of a family of residential space, which must not be touched, over which an execution must not be carried out. That would be humane by the state of Serbia, and the state of Serbia does not care, they are only interested in efficiency. They don't look at the fate of those people who have problems today with the perpetrators, which the perpetrators are terrorizing, they close their eyes in front of it because it's good. It's good to see you from Brussels. That is the basic problem in Serbia. I am very sorry that Mrs Kuburovic is not here, but it is one of the questions that the National Assembly needs to deal with as urgently as possible. Do not ignore more than 100,000 Serbian citizens who signed the petition, do not close your eyes to the terror of public executioners. Reform the courts, create an ambience for courts to function effectively, to execute, but to protect the human rights and dignity of every citizen of Serbia, not to support the robbery and personal wealth of a very small number of people who have been usurped by one jurisdiction in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66225	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a unique search on the draft law. Since we have completed the debate on the 1st item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can set a day for voting in the draft of a law, will be immediately upon the completion of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I set out on Monday 9 December 2019, starting at 2.30 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the 1st Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Eurojust. I'm setting a five-minute break until 2:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for working and deciding. We're moving on to a decision. As we now move on to a decision on the draft law on the approval of an international treaty, or agreement, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3) and (6) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on confirming the agreement on co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Eurostat, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 128. I find it to be the National Assembly. by the majority of votes of all MPs, accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 128. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal and that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on confirming the agreement on co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Eurostat, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 128. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the bill. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited, Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Nela Kuburovic, Justice Minister Goran Knezevic, Economy Minister Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, with associates. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 2 to 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Corruption; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mr Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66227	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, with the aim of ensuring equal conditions for all participants and improvements to the electoral process in the Republic of Serbia, and respecting the recommendations of international organisations, in the first order of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the government has prepared this set of laws, therefore, four legislative proposals that are before you today. These solutions were created as a result of recommendations from the Working Group for Co-operation with those institutions, which analysed all the recommendations from the European Security and Co-operation Organisation's European Mission Report and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights for the period 2003 to 2017, with the aim of, of course, providing participants with equal opportunities in the electoral process. The Working Party adopted its recommendations and the need to amend the provisions of certain applicable laws. It is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities, a draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises and two other proposals relating to amendments and amendments to the laws governing the fight against corruption, the applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which has been implemented by 1 September of the following year and the recently adopted Anti-Corruption Act replacing the applicable law, which begins from 1 September 2020. All four legislative proposals have, therefore, the same objective - to improve electoral legislation and represent one continent. It is important to note that the system election laws have not changed, but the election rules are the same, as they were in the 2008 elections and in the 2012 elections. However, as Government, we are determined to work on improving the electoral environment and correct the weaknesses that have been inherited, which primarily relate to the use of public resources in the pre-election game and the functional campaign so that all participants in the elections have equal conditions and that citizens have a more reliable and transparent electoral process. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the four system laws are important for creating the electoral environment itself, as they regulate the financing of political activities during the election campaign, the use of public resources, responsibilities, prohibitions and restrictions on the highest state and public officials and directors of public enterprises, as well as the conduct of the Anti-Corruption Agency in preventing, detecting and sanctioning potential abuses. Specific measures aim to fully separate party and state activities during the electoral process and prevent abuse of public resources. In order to ensure this, the above-mentioned legislative proposals were defined, i.e. the redefined key concepts of public resource and election campaign. Political activities carried out during the election campaign have been specified so that there is no confusion regarding the use of public resources and it is prescribed that political entities are prohibited to use funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the budget of the local self-government unit, whose candidates in the elections and election lists as public officials, civil servants, AP officials and local self-government units or directly elected persons are available for the purpose of carrying out their official duties. Determinations of restrictions and prohibitions relating to the use of public resources also concern work with voters and membership, the maintenance and organisation of meetings and promotions, the production and distribution of advertising material, brochures, lyphlets and publications, political advertising, public opinion research, media, marketing and consulting services and the implementation of training for party activities. Also, a ban on the use of public meetings attended by the official in this capacity to promote political parties, especially for the use of these meetings and meetings to publicly present participants in elections and their election programmes, calls on voters to vote in certain elections, i.e. to boycott elections and the like. With the same objective of the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, new, additional reasons are introduced for the resolution of the director of a public enterprise relating to the use of the resources of a public undertaking for the promotion of political parties, i.e. political entities, notably the use of official premises, vehicles and inventory of a public undertaking without compensation, the pursuit of activities related to the promotion of political parties, or political entities for election campaigning at work, as well as pressure on employees and persons engaged on the other basis in a public undertaking in connection with possible support of political entities or candidates in the elections. The Director will also be relieved of his duties if he was aware that an employee or engaged on another basis in a public enterprise is using the resources of a public firm to promote political parties or to put pressure on other employees and persons employed in connection with the support of a political option or candidate in the elections without taking actions that he is competent to prevent. In addition, a ban on the use of property, activities, names and visual identity of a public undertaking in all activities related to political parties and election campaigns, as well as any other use of public enterprises for political purposes, and the addition of criminal provisions by providing maximum fines for a responsible person in a public enterprise not only if that person uses the company's assets, but also if it has been known to be used, and not to take actions that it is competent to prevent the use of public enterprise resources for political purposes contrary to the prescribed prohibitions. Finally, the most significant role in preventing a functioning campaign and abuse of public resources during the election campaign was played by the Anti-Corruption Agency, and it was necessary to lay down specific rules and particularly short deadlines for the conduct and taking of certain actions and procedures carried out before the agency, which decides on sanctioning officials who have violated the law in the election campaign. Therefore, it is specified the time limit within which the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government, banks, as well as legal and natural persons that finance political entities, i.e. who, on their behalf and for their account, have provided a certain service, are obliged to, at the request of the Anti-Corruption Agency and within the time limit set by the Agency, which, during the election campaign, cannot be longer than three days, supply all the information necessary for the Agency to carry out the tasks prescribed by this law. The bill also envisions who can initiate proceedings before the Anti-Corruption Agency, so the procedure to decide whether there is an infringement of the Law on the Election Campaign can be initiated based on the application of a political party, a coalition of political parties or a group of citizens who are the applicant of the declared electoral list, i.e. the candidate in the elections. The same article introduces the Agency's obligation to notify, following an application, relating to the violation of this election campaign law, that the political entity has been notified of the application within five days of the date of receipt and if they are requested after the expiry of the time limit for the delivery of the data required by the Agency to carry out the tasks prescribed by this law, a solution which determines that or that there has been no breach of this law in the election campaign. These legislative proposals were prepared in a transparent and inclusive process conducted by the Working Party for Co-operation with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in coordination and monitoring the implementation of the recommendations for improving the electoral process, which included domestic NGOs dealing with the electoral process - CRTA, CESID and Transparency of Serbia. The final text of the amendment proposal and the addition of these four laws was made after considering the suggestions of these organisations and after the public debate was conducted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66228	Thank you, Minister Rose. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66229	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we heard in the opening statement of the distinguished Minister Ruzic, has also been known to say in the past few weeks that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision on the education of the Working Party for Co-operation with the OSCE and ODIR. The core of this Working Group is the coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations, the improvement of the electoral process, and the task of this Working Group was to coordinate and monitor the implementation of recommendations from reports from several previous years with the above mentioned OSCE and ODIR. Indeed, this Working Group carried out an analysis of all reports from 2003 to 2017 and as one of the recommendations repeated from the election cycle on the electoral cycle, this was in fact a reference to the financing of the election campaign, which was read – the provision on the financing of election campaign parties must be further improved in line with previous OSCE and ODIR recommendations in order to introduce stricter rules and greater transparency. The OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights' Interresor Working Group for Co-operation and compliance with the recommendations of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, meaning ODIR, has made concrete conclusions on how these conditions can actually be improved. In line with all of this, as we have heard, I would not now repeat certain provisions of these laws, but all these amendments and additions of several laws that are in front of us are actually concrete proposals from the Working Group and the Government itself, which have been made according to the above. The SVM parliamentary group will certainly support these changes and additions and I will make an argument as to why we think that's good, from several angles. So I will have several arguments that mainly refer to conclusions, recommendations, reports, how the European Commission means on the one hand the EU, and on the other hand the Council of Europe. So, first of all, the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the proposed laws meet the recommendations set out in the European Commission's report. I will remind all of us that the European Commission's latest report was published on 29 May this year. Specific recommendations concern the Chapter with political criteria and the rule of law, the functioning of democratic institutions and public administration reform, democracy. So it is specifically mentioned that there is a lack of transparency on party financing and campaigns and that the unclear difference between party and state activities, unbalanced media reporting and in fact a concrete recommendation that is being fulfilled is that Serbia should devote itself to all of the country's priority recommendations for democratic institutions and human rights, security and co-operation organisations in Europe, the OSCE and ODIR. I am pleased that in this way, in fact, we are once again proving how seriously we take the report from the European Commission. On the other hand, the adoption of these amendments and the addition of these laws, although late, since this was actually planned for this initial action plan for Chapter 23, was planned for the third quarter of 2016, the activities envisaged by the above mentioned action plan for Chapter 23 on amendments and the adoption of a new Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which would regulate the area of prevention of the fight against corruption and ensure its effectiveness. So another argument that will bring us closer to the EU. And as I mentioned, it means not only the EU institutions, but also the Council of Europe, this is how the recommendations of the Council of Ministers of Europe, the Member States on common rules on the fight against corruption in the areas of financing, political parties, political parties, election campaigns on respect for international standards and good practice for "fer" free elections. What the minister was talking about and what most is said, amending and supplementing these laws, means these amendments and additions are actually followed by the recommendations of the OSCE and ODIR, as mentioned in the reports. I mentioned that the period from 2003 to 2017 was analysed, concrete reports refer to previous elections in 2014, 2016 and 2017. Namely, these reports were then pointed out that it is necessary to strengthen transparency on the financing of party activities and election campaigns and these laws, as mentioned, by amendments and additions, to define what is a public resource, what is a functional campaign and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as an independent regulatory body, are given a time limit to decide from five days from the date of receipt that the political entity is informed of the application, that it is to decide, and a deadline within which a solution should be made. The SVM parliamentary group believes that changes and additions to the set of laws are important as it improves the integrity of the electoral process and the improvement of this integrity of the electoral process is a step towards strengthening democratic institutions, but a significant confirmation that free, transparent elections are a fundamental element of democracy. In doing so, all of us together must bear in mind that these changes and additions are, so the proposal of these measures, in fact, their aim is to strengthen citizens' confidence in institutions. The key word is trust. Namely, when we talk about research, as CRTA is also mentioned here, research from last 2018 CRTE, participation of citizens in democratic processes in Serbia confirms a partial crisis of institutional trust, but citizens' views on democracy and elections are interesting. They may even be contradictory at first sight, but what is important is that confidence in democracy grows, while on the other hand confidence in democratic institutions is still lower. It is positive that citizens still see the elections as the main way things change in this country. Citizens see the country's advantage and democratic arrangement and believe their basic role in democratic society is to vote in the elections. Based on these surveys, 40% of respondents believe that voting in the elections can affect changes, which is more than any other democratic mechanism between the elections. The conclusion would be that if there are problems in democracy today, we can only solve them with more democracy. As pointed out, the proposed amendments and additions to these laws are actually the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling majority of which SVM certainly supports, either to requests or to informal dialogue which, if we watch as it preceded, actually started during the summer of July and August in the organisation of the Open Society Foundation and the FPN in Belgrade. What is significant, we all know that dialogue has started, that is, in the course of the dialogue with the intervention of MEPs, that we had, so the agreement is that we have three rounds in the pre-election period. The first round was in mid-October, the second in mid-November and this week, Friday, a third round of talks, dialogues are expected, and after a follow-up after the elections. It is significant that in this way we can show concretely what the results of the dialogue are and what is the answer of the ruling majority and in the light of the amendments and the addition of the laws and concrete recommendations that we would like to stress once again, we certainly support. In voting day, we'll vote for these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66230	Thank you, colleague Kovac. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66231	(off microphone)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66232	My colleague, I apologize for technical reasons. I'll let you, of course, speak again. I'll give you your time back. Here you go, colleague Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66233	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, on the agenda of this session, we have a set of laws that should contribute to improving electoral conditions and their adoption will improve the electoral process in Serbia. The JS parliamentary group will vote for the proposed amendments to the law in the voting day. Following the OSCE recommendations, between 2003 and 2017, and in order for the upcoming elections to be the most transparent, we in this high house today have the opportunity to consider four proposed laws. It is important that our citizens, Mr. Minister, know that the OSCE talks on the improvement of the electoral process began in 2017 and that they are not the result of the pressure of those who have just passed these electoral laws, which today demand that these laws be amended. Unfortunately, even today, when we are discussing such important laws in this high house, they are not there, not respecting either the institution of the Assembly, nor the people, or the citizens who chose them and whose voice they should be in this house, because here is the place to conduct political dialogues not on the street. The question arises: do they boycott the election because of the electoral laws they have passed or because they are aware that because of everything they have done they are unable to cross the censorship? You know, ministers, they're not only the opposition authorities, they're opposition and their country, because they keep trying to bring down peace, stability and economic progress in Serbia by not wanting to work in favour of their country and their people. Even when we discussed the most important issue for us in the Assembly, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, and they asked President Vukic to come to the Assembly and present how far it came in the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue, they did not deserve to come, participate in the debate, ask questions about everything they care about the dialogue itself, about the very position of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and they showed in fact how much their concern for Kosovo and for the people who stayed down. It's their policy. Where we need to be unique as a people, not to divide ourselves into these and those, they have shown their true face and have shown that all they care about is how to get to power without taking care of the lives and needs of an ordinary citizen. In particular, changes relating to the proposed laws should bring greater responsibility than the use and availability of public resources, clear separation of function and political functions, regulation of violations for public officials using public resources in the election campaign, as well as the responsibility of the director of a public enterprise in the event of the use of the company's funds in the election campaign. These changes are the result of a working group established in August by co-operation with the OSCE and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Following recommendations from the RIK Working Group last week, it reached conclusions on the measures it would take to improve the electoral process, and several round tables were held across Serbia, where the professional public actively participated, resulting in the adoption of the above conclusions. The planned measures provide that domestic and foreign observers can monitor the work of the electoral process from the handover of the electoral material to the determination of the vote result, then, the scan of the election committee's minutes, as well as the possibility of voters asking RIK for information on whether it was recorded in the voter's list whether it voted or not. This clearly increases the transparency of the voting process itself, but also the validity of the elections and training provided for by about 500 instructors to work in the permanent composition of election committees raises the quality of the work of election organisations. I would take the opportunity to commend your ministry, Mr. Ruzic, the Ministry of Local Self-Government on the up-to-date of the single electoral list and that you have managed to bind the parent books of the born and dead with a unique voter's list. This affected the regularity of the outcome of the elections, as this record was often mentioned in a negative context in public. The parent books are now being centralised, in electronic form, and in this process, digitisation was being used, not only as technical, but as a social process, because it is working to strengthen citizens' confidence. For the past few months, we have had talks between the authorities and the opposition through the European Parliament, where electoral conditions and standards have been discussed, but also during these talks, the absence of one part of the opposition is an indication that they are not interested in the talks. The only thing they care about is that without a choice on the street, without any plan or programme for Serbian citizens, they win power. This people will never support, and especially when we see that there is no unity between them, nor solidarity. What can we expect? What tomorrow will be to the people and to their voters? I may come out briefly, Mr. Minister, from the framework of today's debate, but I can't help but condemn the violence that took place in front of the Assembly three days ago, and when one part of the opposition tried to break down the doors of the state parliament using the Serbian flag. As a sportswoman who has won the brightest medals many times in the world and European competitions and proudly been covered with that flag and respectfully represented her country, I am sorry that individuals do not understand the importance and weight of our flag, which will never experience emotions when they hear Serbia's anthem at the top of the world and with great joy hold the Serbian flag. At that time, they would not be so shameless to abuse our flag, for it is a symbol of the patriotism and suffering of all our ancestors who have given their lives to grumble with pride today on all the institutions of the country, representing the sovereignty of one nation, one nation. Their answer to this shameless act was that they just wanted to knock on the door. Gentlemen, the Serbian flag is not for that. The JS parliamentary group will always participate in all democratic processes concerning raising the quality of our citizens' living standards and in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support any proposed amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66234	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66235	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, today is a serious set of laws on the agenda, and I will pay particular attention to the Law on the financing of political activities. This set of laws that we are passing is, as my predecessors have said, in order to further improve electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia, and that is something that is really a place and time to do and without coercion, or, to say the least, villains who say it is done under pressure from the EU or those who are threatening with a boycott. Frankly, I belong to a political party that doesn't really care about joining the EU, not to say not at all, but we're hardly interested. Will Serbia one day join the EU or not? That should be decided by the citizens of Serbia in a referendum and whatever the decision is, we will respect it. The only thing we care about is that the Republic of Serbia eventually enters the EU with its own will, standing stable on both feet, with a good economy, a good system, fully realised citizens' rights to the end, in the widest possible extent, so let the citizens decide whatever they want and we will respect it. I guess for that reason, it's a lot simpler for me to talk about this subject, as I do about a lot of things. What I will particularly put an accent on is the Law on the financing of political activities and one thing that the Socialist Movement has launched in the talks that were held at the Faculty of Political Sciences, then when these talks crossed the roof of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, it continued with the initiative. It seems to me that this initiative isn't fully recognised and we've been acting amendmentally as a Parliament club. Of course, on the day we discuss this in particular, we will talk a little bit more. Otherwise, it is the following thing - it is a ban on political entities to use media services that are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, which are not based in the Republic of Serbia and which are not the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the election campaign of political advertising or renting of the term. There are two serious reasons for this attitude that we think must be respected. One is that I really cannot understand that we allow huge funds to be poured into the media that are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, which do not pay taxes in the Republic of Serbia, and we all know that the largest share of the funds spent in the election campaigns comes from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia do not deserve to go to someone who is not a taxpayer in the Republic of Serbia. Stories of some alleged cross-border channels, international obligations are not true. That's just not true. We have no obligation in the Republic of Serbia to allow N1, Nova S and some other cross-border channels to operate as they do. If we have allowed an unequal competition when the media are in question and have brought into an unequal position of the media that are properly registered in the Republic of Serbia, which the Republic of Serbia is paying taxes, which are financed from the budget, I mean the Public Service, and the TV subscription of citizens in the election campaign, we do not have the right to allow not only for the reason why these funds come from citizens of the Republic of Serbia in one way or another, but also for the next reason – we will violate all the principles that we are talking about when we want to improve electoral conditions in the Republic of Serbia compared to today. This is why REM has no right to control and control the media that are not registered and which are not based in the Republic of Serbia. The Assembly Committee, which I believe will soon be chosen and formed, also has no jurisdiction and authority over the media that are not registered in the Republic of Serbia. With serious legal exhibitions, in some situations we can take them under the responsibility of the Serbian judiciary and initiate some procedures because of the way they work, if it is directly contrary to the law, the rules established at the time of the election campaign. Therefore, all the reasons for this initiative to be adopted are absolutely clear, logical, understandable and in place. We are representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia here, and we must primarily take care of them. It's my personal opinion that there's no hole in the law here, that there's only a hole in the coordination of competent ministries and competent state authorities, who can't agree who it is to review business, make sure that we MPs don't stop from the competent state authorities, and in the end there will be courts and prosecutors we won't get the final answer. Although this is a difficult way to go, because we do not have the means and opportunities available to those we think are obliged to go and determine whether these cross-border channels are really cross-border channels or if they are fictitious cross-border channels, which drag us all together by the nose, is a matter of choice as to how they will proceed, but MPs will insist on getting an answer from the competent state authority of the Republic of Serbia whether we are right or perhaps wrong. If we sin and are properly convinced, we will be absolutely ready. We're not interested in editorial policies. I am absolutely not touched by any of these televisions, but I am touched by the fact that I am convinced that the enormous resources that would have to be attributed to the Republic of Serbia's budget through taxes and other obligations as paid by the media registered in the Republic of Serbia are going, in my opinion, illegally outside the Republic of Serbia. We'll survive on that, be sure, and I think it's a common interest for all of us. The truth is all that matters. So I really ask you to think about this initiative right now because, in Article 2, which is proposed by the Government, and this is about the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, it is something that respects the current reality, and it enables all of these principles that we are talking about to the end of all respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66236	I thank my colleague Komlenski. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66237	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, on this day exactly 29 years ago, Serbian citizens first went to the polls after a multi-party system was restored in our country. They then voted in favour of the president, i.e. the president of the state, and on December 23, 1990, they elected the First Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're in the 11th session now. It's been almost three decades, and the electoral conditions have changed in continuity, election laws have changed, which is normal. It's a natural process, and it's a process that needs to last from time to time, to question ourselves and look for the best model that will paint both the will of the people, and based on which all the institutions in the state will work more efficiently. In this context, I also observe the proposed amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Activity, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, as well as the Law on Public Enterprises. The aim of all these changes is to prevent abuse of public resources during the election campaign. I would like to remind you that the previous three election cycles for the Republic of Parliament, two cycles for local parliaments, as well as the 2012 and 2017 presidential elections were held in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, which was adopted in 2011. We will now improve this legal framework by adopting the proposed amendments and by supplementing the law, and earlier it has been suggested that it is necessary to formulate first and foremost what is an election campaign and this law is now formulating it. It is specified from when the election campaign, how long it lasts, but formulates and what public resources are. The essence of all these changes has one goal, to prevent the use of assets and all other resources of republican or local authorities, or companies in the election campaign. The impression is that there have been such abuses in the past three decades, and that is why we are discussing such a bill today, and that there have been cases that, based on public resources, there has been an advantage in the campaign itself. I hope that by adopting these draft laws, we will show that we are ready to solve this problem in the long run. Accurate definition and public resources, and as I have cited election campaigns, but also more severe penalties will be a clear signal to all that future public resources will not be allowed to be used in the election campaign, that they are being misused, whether it is the use of official cars, official premises, to pressure employees to go out or not to go out to elections, for whom to vote, or to use any other privilege that they carry with them public office. On the other hand, I have to point out that the impression is that we are not sufficiently profiled as a society, in terms of accepting certain values during the election process itself. It's not enough to say, here's what we're going to do. We're going to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the law, and we're going to solve the problem of a functioning campaign. That problem won't be solved overnight. We need to implement the legal provisions consistently, work together on the ground, and thus build a new political culture. Well, when it happens that someone really abuses public resources, or abuses their function in order to gain a certain benefit, then that kind of procedure condemns everyone in society and citizens and political parties and that such an actor pays the price in the election. It also takes time to establish patterns of political fair play, where a function at any level of government, whether it is a republican level, a province level or a local level, must not be used to gain a comparative advantage during the election campaign. Unfortunately, in the past 30 years, we have had bad experiences, and that is why I am just pointing out how important it is to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities as the central law governing this area. When we talk about funding political parties. It was often heard in the public, in fact, that there were some objections that political parties, i.e. regular activities, should not be financed from the budget. I don't think we as a society are matured for a different model of financing political parties. It is necessary to be fair and to say that it is justified that the parties that win the most votes in the elections should receive the most money from the budget. I will list some examples from other European countries. For example, in the Netherlands and Great Britain, the mostly funding of political parties is limited to donations and membership fees of party sympathisers, but of course there are other sides to the medals. Simply, it may later happen that these people who donated money have and put pressure on the bearers to realize their personal interests. Also, there is an interesting model in Germany where the parties are financed from the budget, but the money derived from the budget depends on how many parties in the meantime manage to win sympathy for the membership fee. On the basis of this, since this may be an awkward issue, when we talk about potential corruption, I think the current form of funding in Serbia is most appropriate. It could also be heard in public, i.e. the proposal to ban the use of funds that the parties receive from the budget in the course of the election campaign, on behalf of regular political activities. I believe that these proposals are not in place, because they would make it impossible for those parties that are rationally spending money and who are more thrifty to use that amount of money effectively later. It is good that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law contains measures that can be applied since the next elections, to be held in the spring of 2020. The amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act are in line with other laws on the agenda. I believe that this will strengthen the Anti-Corruption Agency's mechanisms, so that it can pre-warn the use of public functions capacity to promote policy. It was once an impression, and it was really so thought that the Anti-Corruption Agency in certain cases was handcuffed and there were no mechanisms necessary to sanction any violations on the ground. He believes that the Agency should be given greater authority and I believe that the proposed sanctions that provide for higher fines will yield results in practice. By amending the Law on Public Enterprises, we will place the accent on greater responsibility of the Director of Public Enterprises. Directors will also be responsible for their actions in the future, but they will also be responsible for the actions of their employees who abuse public resources, if the directors knew about these data. Also, these amendments to the law make it clear that no campaign can be conducted during working hours, this is a good proposal, and I don't think we're limiting anyone. Any official can run a campaign, can promote and represent the ideas of his political party, but he will have to do so after hours, because it is his time and can have it as he wishes. It is difficult in some situations and to distinguish what can be done under a functioning campaign. At the end of each term, the representatives of the authorities highlight the results achieved in the term of office. Good results will be to any political party who has been in power to be the best marketing, when we talk about their relationship with voters, and I think party representatives should do so, say which ideas they have implemented during the duration of their mandate, as the opposition should criticise, make observations, and this is a common practice everywhere in the world, and we cannot undermine these cases under a functioning campaign. For us from SDPS, these changes are important, not only for reasons that can be applied to the next local and republican elections next year, but we see them as one long-term solution that will improve the overall election process. We will probably have more good proposals in the coming period, which will be translated into legal norms, to make our political system work better. I'll remind you that a few months ago, it was unimaginable that these issues of power and opposition would sit down for the same table and talk for half an hour. The very fact that we are discussing these laws here and we are having a debate in parliament, we have made significant progress, our motive for discussing this is not only to adjust, or change electoral conditions as it suits someone or to approve someone. Our motive is indeed to improve the electoral system that changes from time to time, as life conditions change. I will not comment on the announcement of individual parties that they will boycott the elections, it is the right of each political party and each will suffer consequences for its decisions. The elections are the only way for us from the SDPS to examine citizens' trust, to see citizens' support for the parties, and any boycott can only create a crisis that can only be resolved again in the elections and no other way. I don't think it's possible to reverse the election result in the current conditions. At every polling post where members of the permanent assembly are present, members of the extended assembly of election committees, political parties have their own representatives and any political party representative may point to any irregularities that occur in the polling post. Mistakes have happened, they'll always happen, it's up to us to make good laws, to regulate this area with good sublaws, to minimise mistakes. I don't think, in these conditions, any mistake to happen will have a cardinal impact on some election result, possibly discrediting some polling spot, but in that place, elections will be repeated. I will remind you that the SDPS came out seven years ago with a concrete draft of the electoral law. We were then, among other things, proposing to introduce a step-in censorship for coalitions, we suggested that there be so-called. open lists, but I won't, because that's not the subject of the agenda, talk about it anymore. By adopting a law relating to preventing the abuse of public resources during the pre-election campaign, we show in some way the responsibility and willingness to change laws and to improve the functioning of the electoral system in the long term. For this reason, the SDPS will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66238	Thank you. Do any of the representatives, i.e. the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the story of these amendments and additions to the law is the story of the level of electoral procedure in Serbia, but at the same time also the story of heavy hypocrisy, lies and submersibles of the tycoon-hob association headed by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and his courtes, the Democratic Party and its various retlls and remains, all gathered together in the camp of one of their so-called so-called. The alliance. Why is this a story about these two topics? It is precisely because representatives of the former regime who, therefore, led a little earlier, remembered somewhere in 2018, 2019 that the electoral procedure in Serbia is not good at all. Those who passed the laws, and it is important that the citizens of Serbia know, passed all the laws under which the electoral procedure is conducted, all those laws that regulate each segment of this procedure to the smallest detail, those who arranged these things while they were in a position to ask questions in the Republic of Serbia, suddenly concluded that these laws are no good at all, that our electoral procedure is not fair, that it is not democratic and that they have no chance in the elections, not because the people do not, which everyone knows is not true, but because the conditions are allegedly not appropriate. Then they concluded -- it has to change a series of laws, it's got to be a series of different measures, so I guess that'll be all right. Alexander Vukic's response, SNS and the entire parliamentary majority to that kind of rather childish insinuation was very clear from the very beginning. We said there's no problem. You have some objection to any segment of the process -- say and everything that we think we should do will be done, so that segment will be improved. And everything you've made up yourself, and what we've been applying without changing a single comma, we can make it better. We don't have any problem with that, on the contrary. We are interested in the fact that the electoral procedure that has already been used is better and better by the fact that it has been implemented in the spirit of the law and honestly, that it has not been stolen and has not been misused, but it has been and perhaps a hundred times better, thanks to the work of different state bodies that have generally improved living conditions, and, among other things, given citizens a lot of new opportunities which they did not have available by 2012, this procedure has been significantly better. But if you think there's anything else we can do, there's no problem, we always want to do it. Because we are interested in any of our friends in the world saying -- good and democratic standards are being achieved in Serbia, to be right. And that's exactly what they say. When you look at the conclusions of different missions that followed the electoral process in Serbia, both in 2014 and 2016 and in the 2017 presidential elections, all these reports, and these are about different international missions, starting with a sentence - the procedure was democratic, the citizens had the opportunity to choose and express their opinions. We want those grades to stand. So, to be right about our friends from the world when we do something like that, and to further improve absolutely everything, so that the next elections, or after them, can say - e, and now it's even better than ever before, compared to 2012 or the year before, it's incomparably better. Of course, they've been misbehaved and said that our answer and our answer meant nothing. They changed their objections, their demands, they convinced their lies, and then they repacked a million and one times. And no one lives in this country is likely to remember everything, as it went, as they have corrected themselves and corrected themselves, all somehow trying to figure out what it is about the electoral procedure in Serbia is wrong. And we worked all the time. We've been working all the time, and that doesn't just apply to the last year or two. To remind you, the Republic Election Commission has, for more than a year or two, implemented a whole series of decisions, which concern further improvement of the electoral system, based on various recommendations and comments from the OSCE mission, and RIK has already done absolutely everything it could to do by then RIK itself, and in view of the promotion of the electoral process - it has introduced appropriate training and training, it has introduced appropriate new physical protection systems for the voting material, a series of things that were directly listed in these recommendations, RIK, meanwhile. These people are smart today for everything they say is wrong with the electoral procedure, the laws they've passed themselves are not good enough. We're asking, what else is there to do? The first comment was - the electoral list to be arranged. There, you remember people, the voter list is wrong, and that's why it's supposed to be wrong about election conditions. We say no problem. And we say -- here, we'll arrange it transparently, and you can participate in it. And we say -- well, no, come on, you guys, actually, do it yourself, we don't even have to watch, redecorate it any way you want. We're in the meantime, and it's a couple of years old again, and we've given every citizen the opportunity to check from home if he's on the ballot list, whether his data has been updated, whether he's voting where he should vote, whether it's recorded where he lives, we've made it possible. You think I need more? Come on, do whatever you want. Then they decided to forget about the voter list and the story about him, let's look for something else now. So they talked about abuse of public resources, and then they talked about functional campaigns, and they talked about when and how they could go into the campaign. For each of their comments we have responded with – no problem, you want to change, we change, you want something different, make it different. It is important that Serbian citizens feel that everything we do is clear and clear the moment we go to the vote. Because in this country the law is the opinion of the people, the law is the will of the people. Since Alexander Vukic and the SNS have wondered about it, it's a law that no one can question. We don't want him to do it next year, we don't want him to do it any more, we want to brag. Together only with our partners we established those standards that were never in Serbia. While all kinds of Gilas, Jeremici, Obradovici, Ljoticians and others were engaged in screaming on the street, attacking institutions, and all the time repeating that the conditions were wrong, we were, as we said, working. The government's task force was formed to co-operate with the OSCE and ODIR, reported by the present minister. A series of decisions has been made, and it has also prepared proposals for amendments and additions to the laws they have sought all along. What we're discussing today, so these are the things they've been looking for and saying that something's wrong and that should be done differently. The way it is intended to change, which is reflected in these bill proposals, is exactly what they pointed to in their OSCE and ODIR reports, and what Gilassi talked about without it there is no appropriate choice. When we say okay, we'll make it, we'll make it. She has done a working group in co-operation with NGOs, so all those organisations that participated in the inter-party dialogue, but also in the preparation of appropriate solutions to amend and supplement four laws. Today we say that we are proud that we have provided all those measures and mechanisms for the undisputed good, clear, quality democratic procedure that has never been done, which no one has thought of. Did he make these proposals in time, and could he have had all the time in the world and all the resources of Dragan Gilas? It's not. Did the Wolf Jeremy make them? It's not. Did Boris Tadic make them? It's not. Did anyone from the DS make them or the rest of their yellow company? It's nobody. So, while they've been yelling for the past year that their birth laws aren't working out, they've forgotten the fact that they haven't even had a little finger to remove those things that they talk about as something in the laws. Well, we're bringing them in. We introduce them, therefore, as serious people we stand behind the given word. We'll change whatever anyone invents to bother him. And when we agree and disagree, we say – should something be done more transparent? You got it. Should any rules be better defined? You got it. To specify extra? No problem at all. You want bigger tickets? Here's a bigger fine. You want wider powers for the Anti-Corruption Agency or others who are hired to control? We're in. You want fixed deadlines? We'll give them up. You want shorter deadlines? And that's what we're gonna give. All of this is beautifully reflected in these amendments and amendments to the law. We say today – we will make these proposals. We will make sure, therefore, that in all these areas, and they concern both public enterprises and the Anti-Corruption Agency and how political activities are financed, we raise the standard scale in Serbia more than it has ever been set, and at least what it looked like in the time of the yellow thieves who were only interested in money. So today we adopt this and these are the answers to all those objections that it does not tell the truth Alexander Vukic when he says – will be prepared and adopted. You'll see how it'll be adopted this week. So they lied. They've lied, like a million and one time so far. By not participating in this debate, they directly admit that they lied all the time. By not being worthy of even entering the congregation hall when they are discussing those requests that they have irrevocably repeated, they show that they have lied all along, show that they were never interested in anything related to the electoral procedure, show, after all, that none of them are absolutely interested. With elections like this or such they will never be satisfied, because it is clear to them first and foremost that they do not have the support of the people, that there are no such electoral conditions under which they can defeat Alexander Vukic and the SNS. They know -- the people will show again to the vast majority that they support a successful policy, that policy that builds up Serbia, makes it a country winner, a country that becomes modern, successful, that meets the needs of its citizens with great success. That's what the people want. The people will not rob him again of Dragan Gilas for the new 619m euros in their companies' accounts, they simply won't, that election conditions that they can't help. As the people do not want unlived characters, such as Bosko Obradovic, to appear in front of institutions, as he did the day before the Serbian Parliament, when he tried to use the national flag of Serbia he used as some stick most common to break glass at the front door and break in. Then what? So that which they cried when they broke the glass, to burn all things. So they cried, and set the congregation on fire, and set it on fire. They won't demoralize RTS again, where just like that, breaking glass at the front door, they've managed to break in, break in and do more damage. Not to be possessed by the presidency, they do not want to see the president of the Republic as mad Nasta in Belgrade every time he is to visit the Public Service, and at least they want them to come to their doorsteps, as are those courtyards, but also all kinds of Miljushi, Bastaci and other fascists these days on the house threshold for SNS officials. So, the people of that thing absolutely won't. They want these good, smart and positive, they want new highways, they want a higher standard, they want schools, they want clinics and others they want to do, Alexander Vukic, the government of Serbia, SNS and the parliamentary majority. This is the answer to all the questions about who resented what he was serious about or was not serious about. And since they are well aware of it, these Gilas (Jilas) who ride around the city, and watch what they will bring down first, destroy, destroy, break down, conclude, for they have no interest in the election, they desire power without choice, and they say it openly. They're asking today to completely forget that they lied for months when they said something about our election procedure was wrong. So, now that we all get collective amnesia and listen to this brilliant plan, we pick them for some committees in the government of Serbia, let them be the power of one nine months at least, then let them still be directors of public enterprises, run by local self-governments, and all without any choice and without any single vote that they deserve, to simply give it to them, so when they conclude that they've been well with that power, then maybe they'll extend it another year. So, that kind of nonsense, as serious as a man today can just laugh, they're seriously saying it and they're asking for it. They're speaking to a foreign factor with the desire to be declared by someone outside by some decree, how do you know, power, but in the election these people won't. And they don't have to. That's the least of the problems in the whole story. Just don't bother other people, don't attack, don't threaten physically, don't demote like hooligans are as ordinary as they are doing, don't put bags on the head of people with whom they're in any kind of slow, don't beat up baseball bats on their way out of the house or the building where someone lives. Other people, therefore, do not threaten, and do with themselves whatever they want and what they want, it's just their problem. As for the measures taken and to be taken, on Friday 13 December, we are expected to have a third round of inter-party dialogue involving those political actors who have seriously approached the issue. So all representatives of the parliamentary majority, different representatives of the parliamentary opposition and the extra-parliamentary opposition participate in the dialogue, along with mediators from the European Parliament. All that has been agreed to be implemented shall be contained in certain fill tables. Today, therefore, we are telling the citizens of Serbia that absolutely everything that is agreed on is, in any way, government, working group or any ministry, individually or the National Assembly, deep in implementation. So, this Friday, nothing that is in any way, in any sense, the government's obligations, either the Assembly or any of the political actors that make up our majority will not be in that so-called. The red color, which means there's no movement. We've made a move everywhere. There's an implementation going on or it's even completely over. These are the green items on that list, that is, on that table of our obligations, that is, the agreement. The moment we adopt these draft laws that we are discussing, so these four laws are passed, there will be several more new items that will be completely green. So the job is done, implemented, solved, and it's the best possible answer to the question of who's serious, and who's just pretending to be interested in something on election terms. As they lied about the election procedure not being good, so they lied about everything else. You remember the previous choices. They talked on every mouth – if the OSCE doesn't come, these elections won't be good and legitimate. We say – The OSCE Mission will follow this in Serbia by the end of 2019 and will deal with it. They started ignoring it and saying, "No, it doesn't matter now, it's no guarantee." All right, liars, thanks for confessing. They talked – the Supervisory Board must form the Serbian Parliament, without it elections will not be legitimate, of course, they didn't think of one single time, but not once, for all the years they spent in power to form the supervisory board themselves, and we said again today – no problem will be formed. As you know, the procedure is under way and it will be completed in a few days ahead of us. The Serbian Parliament's Supervisory Board will be formed. They're pretending they didn't say anything, but they did, and they say, "It doesn't matter now, and it doesn't serve anything." Thank you, liars, for admitting that you lied there, just keep it up. They talked – they cannot be monitored effectively without the complete composition of the REM Council. We told them – they will be filled with the missing number of members, so three members will be elected to the procedure provided for by the law. It's in progress, a call has been made, people will be elected, as the committee responsible has defined. They say, "No, we won't do it." We want something else to do now. Thank you, liars, for admitting that you lied about it. It is very good that every time you lie to Serbia, whether it is less or more fatty, you admit it nicely. After all, there is no better way than when hohstuplers, liars and thieves themselves admit to who they are and what they are. As they admitted in time that the book was burned as the most common Nazis, and then they lied that it wasn't them, so they had to eat it all and say it – well, we did, but it doesn't matter, so today they admitted that they lied in a sense and when they accused Alexander Vukic and his family of stories about the agricultural good "Jovanja". Today, the happy Alexic, who was supposed to say all these things publicly, has announced that he will sue SNS officials, the mayor of Novi Sad, Mr. Vukevic and Alexander Vukic for what they said – should the prosecution examine this, please state in formal procedure whether it is black or white. And today, Alexic is too wise to say – all that Alexic said, all that Alexic claimed, it's all a lie and there's no basis for any procedure being conducted, and if anyone reports it, it's illegal, false reporting. When you are dealing with such, not only liars, but political diletes, then you understand what you can expect, then you understand what people think about it and people like that. Therefore, the people say, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, who in a serious and responsible way refer to the needs of this country, who provide higher salaries and higher pensions, which provide highways, which have been waiting seven decades, which provide new railway corridors, which provide new factories and jobs, and which ensure that Serbia has more democracy, more freedom, more equality, related to the electoral process, but also any other segment of life and work in Serbia, they receive support from the people. That support was 50, 55, 60% in the elections we held in the previous years. In the coming years, the response of the people will be, I am convinced, stronger, clearer, than ever. It will be once again an absolute support for what Alexander Vukic and SNS are providing Serbia today for what Serbia needs. The captivated darkness from the worst and darkest past of this country, the jilas, the Jeremiahs, the Ljuticians, the Davers and other members of the yellow company, they remain where the people have sent them, where they belong, and that is deep on the margins of any political life in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66240	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66241	Thank you, dear Vice President Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that it is a good idea to conclude on this extremely important and important topic concerning electoral conditions, where the discussion is being held, and this is in parliament, in plenary. I think it is perfectly logical and natural for one part of the opposition to accept in March of this year the invitation of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to discuss all of this even then, to discuss how to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia, how to improve parliamentary practice, how to improve parliamentary dialogue, to discuss election conditions. To discuss, among other things, how to implement all the suggestions we had on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, suggestions and proposals that we could see through the European Commission's report on the work of Parliament. No matter what part of the opposition does not participate in parliament's work, all suggestions and suggestions that can be considered through the European Commission's report have been implemented in parliament's work. The point was put into debate about the 2020 budget, when we doubled the time of the debate. So, dialogue is being held, Mr. Minister, dialogue is being conducted and will always be held in parliament. Parliament is the voice of the people, a place where we legitimately elected representatives of citizens, so as someone with trust and the mandate of citizens, talk about alternatives to how to reach the best legal solutions, the best quality legal solutions, which will be in the best interest of citizens. I don't think anyone ever wanted to deny the democratic debate and the democratic confrontation of opinion in parliament, but it must be in line with the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no matter how many open issues exist and do not agree with certain issues and certain solutions, it must be with respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, and of course, with respect for colleagues through public discourse, to throw out all of that negatively, in order to have a decent dialogue and decent communication in parliament. I think we have always been able to move from the field of politics to that field of argument and democratic debate, a reasoned and democratic conflict of opinion, and I think we have discussed any topic that we have discussed, any law that we have discussed, that we have always been able to find a common denominator, which is Serbia's prosperity. I guess it's a common denominator for all of us sitting in parliament besides, of course, having a common goal, the one, the only, which is to protect as MPs of national and state interests. But it takes a responsible, realistic and serious approach with a view to the future for which, unfortunately, one part of the opposition has no hearing and does not think in that direction. By laying down some requirements and some conditions that bypass the essence of Parliament's existence as the highest body of the legislative authority, because the essential role of parliament is legislative activity. When you make some demands and you bypass parliament, it is the least said, a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you, Mr. Orlic talked about it, but let's do a retrospective of how it all went. From the moment of Parliament's constitution up to a year ago, because this is a 334 day since one part of the opposition has not participated in parliament's work, that part of the opposition is trying through a series of unsuccessful ones, I would say, I would attempt to defuse and defuse parliament's work. To present in the most negative light the work of Parliament in public and to exercise in public the opinion that Parliament is not working. Since there have been many unsuccessful attempts and have not been through democratic debate and democratic interactions of opinion could show their strength already infirmity and I would say, political anemicism and political impotence, they have defined themselves as a boycott of parliament, which is their legitimate right, but a boycott of parliament with a kind of political monologue. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, correct me if I am mistaken, but through that political monologue, then all gathered together, could hear only one position, all unanimously to call an extraordinary parliamentary election. And then there was no condition, no request. So, it insisted that early parliamentary elections be called, likely considering that so all together can represent some alternative to the ruling coalition. When they realized not that they could not represent an alternative to the ruling coalition but that they had a problem with having a political survival of the next election cycle, a step further towards the development of new political flossules. Well, then we have a political boycott of the election, due to allegedly not fair and not democratic conditions, and then there's been another step further, and that's something that can be defined in the right sense as a pale copy of the 2000 DOS, it's kind of an agreement with the citizens. That's something, I'll remind you of what the citizens after 2000 wanted to forget as soon as possible, because those who took responsibility in 2000 quickly forgot what was actually contained in the agreement with the citizens. Then very often we listened to messages or fair and democratic elections or boycotts and revolutions. Now, fair and democratic elections, and all the laws concerning electoral conditions, the entire electoral legislation has just been passed in the period when most of those sitting in that and such alliance with Serbia today were in the ruling coalition and was a majority partner in the ruling coalition. Then absolutely nothing bothered you. Then we had fair and democratic elections. It seems to me that they think that for some political parties, in fact their political life is moving from today, as if we are all here in parliament and most citizens of Serbia suffer from amnesia, as if they didn't know what the retrospective of all the events was. As for the revolution, we weren't afraid even in 2000, so do they think we're afraid of some quasi revolution today, in 2019? Part of the opposition has seen this whole process as a joke, as an opportunity to fool the public, because the boycott of the election was the only option for them and the only intention, the only goal, the only thing they had left. They were playing victims, trying to find among Serbian citizens someone who felt like a victim. You know, victims are allowed everything, not realizing that this is not the one Serbia that could once be deceived and that Serbia is no longer the same, that Serbia does not fall for desperate, losing moves. They called on European parliamentarians, insisted on talking to European parliamentarians, and today they do not talk to them in parliament. They're talking to them today in hotel lobbys. So we are ready to talk about everything that can improve the existing processes in Serbia. We're always for democratic solutions, we're always for a democratic agreement, but when you say either 42 demands, or a boycott of elections, then it's not a space and it's not a path that leads to a compromise solution, to a consensus, then it's a classic ultimatum. Boycott's no good, boycott's the wrong way, not good for the country, not good for democracy, but if you have a policy that's in the citizens' interest, if you have people who trust citizens, then what's a boycott? Then why don't you participate in parliamentary elections and show your strength? Mr Minister, in most of these topics that we are talking about today, we have discussed on a roundtable at the Faculty of Political Sciences, we have participated as a party and as a parliamentary club and in a conversation with the European Parliamentarians, because we are ready to talk about everything that can change existing processes, but we are not ready to talk about it on the street, we are not ready to talk about it under the tent, we are ready to talk about it where discussions lead, in parliament. When it comes to the round table, it wasn't a negotiation, it was an exchange of views, exchange of experiences, and at some point, I have to say that during the talks we said that we seem to lose some sense of purpose for one simple reason, because all the time we insisted that we specify our answers, to make a decision on certain recommendations, to tie our hands in this way, to raise the price to the organisers, but on the other hand we didn't hear the opinion of those who didn't attend the talks, because if they still stand at 42 demands or boycott, then that kind of conversation loses meaning. After six round tables, as held at the Faculty of Political Sciences, we as a parliamentary group, as a political party, together with our coalition partners from Unity Serbia, have come out with certain views, with certain recommendations, above all, precisely in the law should define what makes the election campaign, specify what is meant by the abuse of public resources during the electoral campaign, specify how the public should be aware of the context of the local law in the context of public functions during the duration of the election campaign, prohibit any type of pressure on citizens employed in public enterprises, prevent the use of property and the names of public enterprises in the purpose of the electoral campaign, take into account the need of the local law in the context of violation of these provisions, National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should select any type of pressure on citizens of public enterprises, prevent the use of property and the names of public enterprises in order to take the need of the law enforcement of the parties, to take into account the need of the need of the law of the law of the law and the law of the law of the law, the law of the law enforcement, the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law, and of the law of the law of the law, and of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and of the law of the law, the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of I want to say that most of the recommendations and most of the conclusions that we have come up with after the completed round tables have been implemented in what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, in what the regular body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, has had one responsible, serious approach and that we have made one qualitative shift when it comes to improving electoral conditions, that one balance has been made between respect for the right of the government on the one hand and the opposition on the other. It is not the government, as we have been able to keep quiet many times during the talks, to banalise things, and not to declare these issues, but to discuss it very specifically today, through amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the prevention of conflicts of interest, therefore very concrete. So all those involved in this process had a serious and responsible approach. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we repeat the working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and today the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Progress and constructiveness are visible to go through in a democratic spirit. For us, I must say, the rigid and unacceptable attitude from the very beginning was to prohibit public officials from presenting results during the campaign. It should, of course, take into account the use of public resources during the campaign, but we believe that if an election campaign should not and should not stop in Serbia and we should all turn to the election campaign, I guess everyone should do a job for which he has taken responsibility, of course, respecting the laws specifically concerning election conditions. Imagine, on the one hand, you want to prohibit someone from presenting their results, and on the other hand you allow those who dispute that they can criticise these same results. Also, a public debate was held when it comes to media representation during the election campaign. What we think, Mr. Minister, is that part of the opposition wants to deal with the editorial policy of the media. A lot more of that wheezing about media in the media, we're not the representatives of this thesis that if we're present in the media the media scene is good, and if we're not present in the media, that media scene is bad. It's just that the media has to be autonomous in deciding and we don't want to deal with the editorial policy of the media. I will remind you, in 2009, we were part of the ruling coalition and we did not vote to amend and supplement the Law on Public Information because we felt that these amendments and amendments to the laws were a serious blow to objective and professional independent journalism in Serbia. When it comes to media representation, here's only one contribution. I have here, in front of me, a survey of the New Sad News School, when it comes to elections, let's say, specifically about elections, and then one election, the 2016 parliamentary elections. The Socialist Party of Serbia was then part of the ruling coalition. During the election campaign, the Socialist Party of Serbia was far less represented on "National Diaries" of all media compared to opposition political parties, such as DS and SDS, so it never occurred to us to block the entrances of television stations and to arrange for a motor saw to try to deal with editorial media policy. Let me, Mr. Minister, I think that the media strategy was adopted sometime after 2000, and that it was then initiated and that it insisted on capitalism, you wanted capitalism, you got capitalism, and we just don't know where you need to deal with the private sector today, especially when we're talking about the media. And the private media is monitoring the research, and the private media is tracking the results, and they know very well what the news is. The fact that someone has 50% support, and someone is struggling to get 5% support, so we can't help them raise their rating or rating policy options. Of course the interest of ownership when we talk about media is primary. As for the public debate we had, we said quite clearly at the time - you want us to form a supervisory board, we have absolutely nothing against it, but the public must know that this supervisory board has not been formed since 2000 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The public should know that in 2016, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sent a letter to parliamentary groups aimed at making proposals for the establishment of the Supervisory Board. Why wasn't the Supervisory Board formed then? You want to change RTS editors? We don't mind. This ruling coalition has not set up any RTS editors, but on the other hand RTS today and every day directly conveys parliamentary sessions, they are public, they are directly transferred to public service. You say you have no space in the media? Here, come to the assembly bench, come out with your political agenda, with political ideas. For months, it takes hysteria and a kind of hickey to REM and it forgets the essential and fundamental thing, that we politicians, MPs, should help and support the work of independent institutions, strengthen them, not push them into the political ring, not that each of us interprets the law as it suits him and make REM interpret the law against what's logical, which is normal and what has to be. But a procedure has also been launched to elect new REM members, missing REM members. So, for us, this was a serious agreement, and it is absolutely logical, a deal between political parties, representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition, on the other hand, media representatives, REM representatives, and we fully accept. Let's define the rule when it comes to public service, to define recommendations when it comes to commercial broadcasters, equal representation, of course, both quantitative and qualitative, but let's put the accent on the thematic areas to see what kind of program it proposes and who has specific people. There's one thing that's very important, and that's false news. Information is a powerful weapon, a universal model must be opposed to other information or a different argument, and no threat, violence and no conflict. That is why we must bear in mind, that is a great challenge, and we must bear in mind that we are preparing our citizens for false information, because we are increasingly facing misinformation, and that is now a greater threat than ever before. Definitely, Mr. Minister, a lack of political ideas, a lack of political power, a lack of political influence leads to the most primitive behaviour and has long crossed the borders of a political vocabulary. This is no longer about politics, this is no longer about the essence for which politics exists, this is about violent and violent behavior and what happened the night before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, cannot and cannot become a norm of social behavior in Serbia. We show willingness to build new frames. They're not a problem of criticism, they need to talk openly, see what they need and can be done, and we think this is the only way and the right way to see what is proposed and I don't see anyone from the ruling coalition shut the door to talk. Today, no one can say that the ruling coalition is the one that makes it difficult to talk, that the ruling coalition is the one that insists and moves for the opposition to give up parliamentary elections. We are here to respect the Constitution and the law and to disable what one part of the opposition wants, which is that elections are being extended, to form some kind of transitional government or pre-election government. There is no reason for Serbia's transitional, pre-election government, Serbia has political stability, and after regular parliamentary elections it will get a new government that will have, I am fully convinced, huge trust and support for citizens and, of course, political stability. And at the very end, Mr. Minister, one topic we've launched, and it also concerns election conditions. We have discussed this with you, we have launched an initiative here and through amendments and additions to the Law on the People's Assembly, which is to fight together, all together to fight, to prevent the parliamentary mandate from being subject to political trade after the elections, because we believe that it is a violation of the electoral will of citizens and we believe that it is important for the sake of political stability, and political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress, because the question is always asked, Mr. Minister, what is older – the electoral will of citizens or the ownership of a mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66242	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) Here, Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it seems that today the National Assembly has been working on a speedy procedure, but it is not bad to remind the SRS parliamentary group since the beginning of this call, so since 2016, it has been constantly criticising the ruling majority why it does not bring the new Rules of Procedure, why is it calling meetings by emergency procedure, joining incompatiblely into the agenda? Last year we had more than 60, I think, agenda points, along with the budget that should represent the most important law the Assembly adopts, and then we had the opinion of the European Commission and the National Convention for Co-operation with the EU only when they pointed to bad practices from our parliamentary life, here we could see from the representatives of the ruling majority one outflow of democracy and tolerance. Then everyone remembered that it wasn't right, that it wasn't good. Now the agenda points are going to split, now it's going to be twice the budget time. It was all announced by the President of the Republic. Then we started working as normal as possible. So it absolutely didn't matter what he said and appealed to an MP group. It was only when the NGO set out its opinion and criticism that the situation changed here. This speaks of the ruling majority and how the congregation’s leadership is doing in this congregation. Today we are talking about laws on the prevention of corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. The question arises, if, as we can see from the media now, only now is the ban on the use of official cars, the use of public resources during the campaign, the appearance of these officials who must be putting their position and resources of these local self-government or state bodies in the function of their campaign, do we thus acknowledge that this has been allowed so far? Is that all practice so far, and now all of a sudden it's changing? We can hear from the SNS about Gilas and other people who represent today the pro-Western opposition in Serbia all the worst, how much they have stolen, what they have done, turned Serbia black, cheated, etc. That's when we talk about SNS candidate for president of the KSS, Dragan Gilas. And so we also hear from the pro-Western opposition and similar things for the advances, and then we see in less than 24 hours, when an NGO Open Society Fund, whose general sponsor is George Soros, is what we can read from the media that supports Vlado working on Vukic's head, has a plan to destroy Serbia and everything else. And this Soroš, when they call a meeting, comes forwarders and socialists and DS and all its derivatives like white tulips to talk about electoral conditions, media, electoral lists, etc. Then all differences are automatically forgotten and as little children, everyone goes on a date when NGOs do so. They still boast of their participation in these talks, as if it were something positive. The National Assembly, i.e. The ruling majority in Serbia and the government in Serbia react only to a dictatorship from abroad. It is a fact and it shows the absolute continuity between the SNS authorities and DS authorities. Everyone was acting crazy as if everything was okay in Serbia, and then when these NGOs started talking about our electoral conditions, when foreign mediators, the former MEPs, were involved, then they all noticed that there were anomalies in our election process. The National Assembly, the SNS, the SPS above all agreed to humiliate the involvement of foreign intermediaries who should solve our problems. They humiliated the National Assembly that has the capacity and should have agreed on a college of all parliamentary groups to see what was wrong with our electoral legislation or the electoral process and to resolve it by mutual agreement. But no, they were all deaf to it. Only when there was a lot of pressure from abroad was there to talk about it. And we are still humiliated by being sent by serving bureaucrats, as the European Parliament is not in the legal sense of the words, by serving bureaucrats who are no longer members of Brussels to explain to us here, as if we are a third-world country in which democracy and everything else should be introduced and we know nothing, to explain to us what is good and what is not. It's humiliating for our country. As for our electoral conditions, as for 20 years and before, always in the media the ruling party, however hard it is to deny it, has a dominant position, is more represented, and is exploiting it. It's an anomaly, maybe even from our multiparty. See what the Bear elections looked like? In addition to the standard, what it looks like when in some individual municipality elections were repeated, the presence of a large number of members of the ruling party from all over Serbia, which they are of course entitled to, we also had certain SNS satellite parties who participated in these elections, knowingly violated the law, this enabled them, such as that organisation, I think, the Serbian right hand that came to the list of users of social assistance and folk cuisine and did not even hide it. She went out with that organization in the media, that's what the advances allowed them to do, and that's how she pushed the voters. voters who are also users of folk cuisine to vote for them. Is that normal, which was the reaction of the state authorities, what was done about it? Nothing. It can only tell us that it is allowed in Serbia and that it is normal from your perspective. We also pointed to the last session of the RTS problem. Serbia's radio television is very abundantly funded from Serbia's budget. There is a board of directors who are elected under some mysterious principle, and already if it is national television, instead of having parliamentary parties on the key of representation in the National Assembly making it and proposing board members, it is not some self-proclaimed experts and experts, and then we have a situation that the ruling parties are represented in 90% of the information programme, and when they are not, they are some pro-Western parties that are in the regime. Only those appear in their information programme and in political emissions. Those who did not go to the elections, those who stole the mandates, are the most normal guests in television shows and are conveyed what they do during their working day, and we pay everything, even now we have raised the amount of subscription, and of course whoever uses electricity is automatically subscribed to RTS. It has become the standard in Serbia, the most normal situation, if anyone turns on the stove, to subscribe to RTS. Instead of solving this problem, talking about RTS, you might only talk about it if Soros says it's wrong. If we see the problem ourselves, we'll put it under the carpet. I'll remind you, RTS often publishes a map of Serbia in an information programme, in a weather forecast, etc. without the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. When some passerby on the street stopped to ask him something, and he had clothes on him under the Serbian flag of Kosovo and Metohija, which says "No surrender", they clouded it in the information programme. It's RTS. Is that a problem in Serbia today? I think it does, but if we're going to deal with it, we will, if the coalition of NGOs headed by that Soros Open Society Fund notices it, then we can talk about it. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, do you know that today the Serbian Government has been knowingly breaking the law for almost six months, because since the summer of the introduction of provisional measures in the Meroshin municipality? When the SNS and DS coalition in Meroshin municipality fell apart, temporary measures were imposed. So, according to law, elections were supposed to be held within three months, and that happened six months ago. The law is knowingly broken and nothing to anyone. When will there be elections in Meroshina? It's been a while since they were scheduled. What are we talking about, improving the electoral process, when the Serbian government violates the law? When will the president of the National Assembly, who represents a significant official of the ruling party, call the Meroshina elections? Why has the law been broken for so long, and we need to talk about improving the electoral process? We now say the Law on the Prevention of Corruption as if no commercial agreement was signed last week between the Republic of Serbia and Bechtel-Enka for the construction of the Moravski Corridor, which was signed only because of heavy pressure from the US Embassy at a price higher than the job really is worth, and we had the opportunity to see in some previous ministries when your colleague was a traffic minister, Mr Antic, when it was estimated by a Chinese company that this job was actually worth about 500m euros. Here's corruption in the Serbian government. A racket is being paid to the US Embassy in Belgrade. The public invitation, which was called for the job, was an invitation that only the US firm Bechtel could pass. The call was a personal ticket to Bechtel, as it was ordered by the US Embassy. On top of that, a year and a half ago, US Ambassador Kyle Scott attended the Serbian government's signing of the first protocol with Bechtel, and in the middle of Serbia's government, he said Kosovo is an independent state and Serbia as soon as possible. Mrs. Mihajlovic stands behind him, smiling, as if everything was normal, no protest has expressed, and to all of this we are still humiliating ourselves and paying the racket to the US Embassy. What is the role of Zorana Mihajlovic in all this? Do only Americans know how to build highways today in the world or do companies from other countries do that? How is it possible that we had a good Chinese highway company Milos Veli, which the president of Serbia opened for five hours live in the broadcast, and she was taking Serbian subcontractors, and now we don't need another company for the Moravia Corridor, so the American, which has subcontractors from Turkey and another 300m euros in cost? Let's solve corruption first before we begin to boast about the tasks Soros gave us. Why don't we do it? I remind you that the affair also broke out in Croatia after the construction of the Split-Carlovac road, which was also under the pressure of the US Embassy, had to work "Bechtel". The minister of infrastructure had to resign for all this, and here Zorana Mihajlovic is still sitting in the government as if everything was normal. All of this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which we are talking about today is not because it is constantly for the proposings to improve the situation in Serbia. In 2014, the Serbian Progressive Party went to the polls under the slogan "All Power Against Corruption". What's happened since then? Nothing. We had arrests without court epilogues. We had a fight against corruption only in the media, no convictions. They're still the biggest criminals from the former, but also this regime on the loose, they're getting rich and nobody dares to do anything to them, and we're fighting corruption. Today we are not talking about all this to improve the situation in Serbia, but what you think someone likes. You want to like NGOs, you want to like the European Commission, you want them all to praise you, not improve the situation in Serbia. In the end, you think there is a detour in the EU. Unfortunately, it doesn't exist. There is only one way to continue negotiations between Serbia and the EU, which is to recognise the independence of the Republic of Kosovo, to enable Kosovo to join the UN, it is the entry of Serbia into the NATO Pact, and only then can we in the perspective of talking about Serbia's EU membership, and until then we can be in the Balkan Union, in the small Schengen, to develop the economies of northern Macedonia and Albania. It is today unfortunately the position of Serbia and there is no other option for European integration, especially as it no longer hides that the EU in the way it has spread so far will no longer spread, and you are trying to please someone with such laws. In addition to recognising Kosovo's independence, we will have to accept everything in the programme of all these NGOs, which is also financed from Serbia's budget. More than 300 million dinars this government gives through the Office for Human and Minority Rights, these human-rights so-called. organisations that later promote the genocide in Srebrenica, Kosovo's independence, the Mirdita festival organised in the middle of Belgrade, the promotion of Kosovo culture, that Serbs are guilty of everything, that Serbs are the greatest criminals in the history of the world and that Serbs have been a little bombarded as much as they deserve. That's what's being financed, and that's the ideology of those who make you these laws. Furthermore, Serbia would have to be an accomplice to the liquidation of Republika Srpska, because, for God's sake, if any of the formations had denied genocide in Srebrenica, it must not exist. Banja Luka will have to be forced into unitary BiH, Serbia will have to become a NATO pact member and we will apologize to them that they bombed us so that we can talk further about our so-called so-called NATO pact. the European perspective. Nothing like this will help us except that some of the servants of the European Parliament may be undermining Mr Ruzic or Mr Vukic or Maja Gojkovic on the shoulder and commending them for their success in passing such laws. That's what I need to be aware of. We need to focus on our real problems, of course, that exist. We saw them in Bear. Here we are looking at the Mereshina. There's been no election call for six months. We're looking at, for example. in RTS. We have seen today that the vice president of the ruling party has filed criminal charges against his party president, as well as the President of the Republic, although he believes he is not guilty. So he falsely reports it. This authority has placed the judiciary in office of its pre-election campaign, and we are talking about the recommendations "Transparency", "Crte", CESID, "Open Society" and other human rights organisations. Is that normal now in Serbia? We urge you again, if you care about dialogue and democracy, to reject a foreign dictatorship, foreign interference, to discuss political parties without any pressure from abroad if you want us to achieve something for Serbia's sake. If you want to continue to be like your predecessors, as you say, of the former regime, then this is the road, the unspeakable fulfillment of everything that comes from the EU, everything that comes from the West, from Brussels, which has not yet proved to be something that benefits Serbia. For 19 years, we've had nothing but damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66244	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Mr. Vladimir Orlic has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66245	You mentioned once or twice that we do things, like you said, like little kids. I'm not going to tell you that you, as little children, are doing well in your coalition with this Gilas, whom you also mentioned in Old Town, and I'm not going to say that you are acting like little children when it comes to the National Assembly, among other things, in this inter-party dialogue that you were also talking about. There is no factor or foreign, nor do I know of what is to be established by the National Assembly, what is happening in the National Assembly, or what is the result of the laws adopted by the National Assembly. So, let me remind you, you have every right to participate or not to participate in any segment of the work of the National Assembly or of the activities carried out in it. We used to order – the dialogue is conducted amongst the breaks in the National Assembly. We, to remind myself, in that sense, seemed to be saying what you were saying, but now this dialogue is being conducted in the National Assembly. We take part in it. Why aren't you involved? It's your right and it's your will. I'm not going to say that in that sense you act like little children, but the National Assembly needs to make a statement about these proposals, to discuss them, to make a statement about them, and then that's the decision of the people's representatives in this country. No one else, no one else. It doesn't matter if it's from Serbia or whether it's from any other true on the globe of the Earth. You want to be a part of it? You got it. You won't? You don't have to. Just be fair to the end and say – this will adopt or not adopt in this form or in which the National Assembly considers it appropriate – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this dialogue is concerned, we've forced that Gilas of yours out there to clean up, showed that he doesn't really care about any dialogue. Do we want to be a part of this? There's no problem. A mediator could be a college or someplace else. We felt that the best place was the National Assembly, and in the end we brought dialogue here. The host is the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, and that's where we talk, we make some solutions, so who will and will, but that's the whole truth. Those who said they were supposed to be for some dialogue, that Gilas and his, they ran away from it. They saw that none of the only arguments had. They saw that no one in the world can be convinced that they were right when they said their laws were wrong. They saw that they had no argument when they said that we wanted to hide something, to make it undemocratic, unfair, or whatever. We all do what anyone has to say on the subject of electoral conditions, and that it makes sense, said and, as you can see, we are not running away from anything because we know that there is no choice for anyone in Serbia today to defeat Alexander Vukic and SNS. You want better deadlines, here's better deadlines. You want a better list, here's a better list. Whatever anyone thinks, we've shown nothing scares us. Let me remind you, RTS has organized a show in the pre-election period that faces political opinions without a representative of the SNS, without representatives of the largest and most significant party, so you can tell if he is protecting us or trying to damage us and to nothing, as you can see, we react and we are not angry. Our representative was silenced by the sound when he was in discussion with this Gilas, not yours or some quarter, so as you can see, we live with it most normally, and no one puts us there, so we win again. As for what the NGOs say, to take advantage of what you mentioned, to tell them. They said that something needed to change in congregation practice. Is there any other thing that they, you or someone on the fifth said should be introduced and it hasn't already been introduced? Do we have an emergency hearing? Do we have a debate without a reunion? Do we have double time to discuss the budget? Do we even have these laws we're talking about now in a regular procedure? That's all you and them were looking for. Now let me call on these NGOs to report nicely and to say – to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, doing so well everything about their parliamentary practice that we do not have such examples in the world. That would be fair of them. Whether or not you agree is your business and I will not give you any advice in this regard. As far as this criminal report is concerned, that's where we showed what kind of liars they are. That's where we showed how much nonsense they're talking all the time when we said-- come on, the prosecution now, you question these allegations of theirs, these lies on the burden of Alexander Vukic and the members of his family, what did the liars say? Jumped like a fire - no, it's a false application, there's no basis for proceedings. Is there no basis? Then why did you lie to the liars? I've congratulated them a few times that they only expose themselves nicely every time. Congratulations on this. This is the best and most spectacular yet, and whether you agree with them in this regard or not, it's your thing again, just like the one in Old Town.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66246	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66247	You're right, Mr. Orlic, you've listened to them all whatever they've told you and you've done everything according to their orders, and we've talked about it for three years, and you've only been deaf when it came to you, all about or most of the things from the NGO's representatives, then you've started to adopt it. That's what I said, you're just reacting to a dictatorship from abroad. We want to participate in the dialogue, we want to improve the situation in Serbia in the electoral process, parliamentary life and everything else, but we do not want to be led by representatives, former MEPs who here in these dialogues, at these meetings lead the main word. It's Edward Kukan and Knut Flekenstein. They're mediators, so there wouldn't be any of you there if we were to be honest. Our Gilas, who you're transferring to us, you seem to know a lot about him and his crime. I invite you to do the same thing that Milos Vukevic did this morning, go to court and tell you everything you know about him, not like your practice so far, to choose him as president of the basketball union. Because the question arises if such an honest, honorable organization, such as the SNS, which wouldn't accidentally commit a crime or anything else, could so have been an honorable and honest organisation, such as the SNS, to move forward, so that Dragan Gilas could have appointed president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia? Can this be done without SNS approval in Serbia? Well, he can't. It can't. So, problems exist and should be solved both in parliamentary life and in the electoral process, but they should not be solved because they order us from abroad, but because I guess we should be able to solve this and we should not wait for Sonja Licht, Milan Antonijevic, Natasa Kandic, and whoever does not, I guess this Assembly has enough smart people, has enough capacity to face these problems and solve it, rather than waiting for us to be ordered in some European Commission report and to come here to Fabrizia and Flekenstein and Kukan to teach us about democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66248	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on the replica of Dr. Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66249	I have to disappoint you, there's absolutely nothing to do with SNS taking part in the basketball alliance or any club. According to that logic, we, as well as those directors and coaches of various clubs and societies, chose which, and you know it well, the worst possible old ones also talk about Alexander Vukic and SNS. Where did you get that? Here, I have no idea. It's really hard for me to understand. As for Mr. Fabrizio, you personally agreed with him on what and how the National Assembly should do, right? Were we together at a meeting of the Committee on European Integrations when we were protecting the National Assembly and explaining - this is not what you said to Mr. Fabrica, and you said - he's right, and it's all the same. There's a video, so feel free to remind yourself, if it's hard for you to remember what happened and how you performed. Now, in some report, the EU will have to, it is simply inevitable to admit that the Assembly meets all the standards they have discussed. When I told you whether or not you would admit, since you agreed well with them then, whether or not you would admit that there is no emergency procedure like ever before, that there are no united debates such as ever before, feel free to take whatever time you want, that it is a double time to discuss the budget, which you remember when it came to debate, and this is in a regular procedure, all of them will have to admit it. Would you like me to tell you nicely, I repeat, it's your thing, we're not looking for anything, think about it might be correct to do it, but you'll decide for yourself, just as you have decided to work very well with this Gilas in Old Town. It is probably nice to participate in phenomenal achievements such as the disappearance of the vast millions for the geronto housewives, for various dedicated services, etc., but these are all your personal questions that you have the right to your position. It's a shame that you're able to drive them wild, when they imitated the Nazis in the city center, call a fascist pyre, if proven, and when proven, and proven to be admitted, as well as all the other lies they've confessed, to pretend to be ignorant as if you didn't say anything. I think it's a shame first of all for you, but once again it's just a question for you. At the very end, we do nothing because someone makes us or what praise we especially expect. Friday will be the third round of talks that, if you haven't heard and understood, take place in the Serbian Parliament to host, once again if you haven't heard and understood, the president of the National Assembly. We will participate in front of the SNS, whether people from the European Parliament come or not. I believe it will come, but anyway, we do it in our house, for our sake, and we think it makes sense when it's being organised in parliament and organized by the President of the National Assembly. You will come or not, it is yours, but remember what the National Assembly is, what it is and what its law represents, so that at least we may be correct toward this high house, and whether you will be correct in the division of what is missing in the Old Town, you see it among yourselves, just let us know in time that you are with Bastac, when he is savage in the campaign or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66250	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66251	At the meeting of the Committee on European Integration, which you are talking about, I was the only one there to defend the dignity of the National Assembly because I was the only one to protest the EU ambassador's address. You violated the Rules of Procedure, so you violated the Rules of Procedure. The ruling majority, which makes up most of the Committee on European Integration, has allowed the EU ambassador in Serbia to address the meeting, play cartoons and give us a lecture. I was the only one against it who rebelled, and you supported it, i.e. This coalition partner of yours from Novi Sad, Nenad Canak, who is the chairman of that committee, with whom you are in a coalition at the level of the city of Novi Sad. He made it possible. I'm the only one who's voiced the protest. It can be checked in both the video and the stenogram and the record. So I was the only one there defending the dignity of the National Assembly, and you supported it. Secondly, the SNS, among other things, has placed its staff for President Slavish Kokez in the FSS since it came to power, headed Serbia's Water polo alliance for President Zoran Babic and as president of the KSS as well as its staff, Dragan Djilas. Are those facts? How does the SNS frame in all these alliances, just not frame into the KSS? Is that possible? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if Serbia is a parliamentary democracy, on all of this, electoral conditions, electoral process and everything else should be spoken here in this hall, in the plenary of the National Assembly, and not by some buds, early dawn by FON, by the halls to meet, and all of this allows you by the NGOs Sonja Licht, the Open Society Fund, Milan Antonijevic, Natasa Kandic and others. If you cared about election conditions, if you cared about democracy in Serbia, you would have initiated a debate here, and you wouldn't have tried to hide that they teach you Knut Flekenstein and Eduard Kukan, that they teach you the rules of the election process. It's a fact in Serbia, and don't let us fool ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66252	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. (Alexander Seselj: He spoke for three and a half minutes.) All right, you'll get a chance again. You sign up now anyway. Right on the line, Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66253	I have to admit, you made me laugh quite honestly. You're saying you need to talk about it in the National Assembly, wait till we see, where are we now? Looks like the National Assembly. Mr. Seselj, if you haven't noticed, you've just said it several times in the Home of the National Assembly. Is that what you need? Congratulations, that's what you got, and you don't seem to even know it. So, you've been in direct transmission several times in the last half hour, I believe you'll be more, but you know, that's good news for you. You're at the National Assembly. Now let's see, here I see SNS MPs, SDS, SPS, I see you too, I don't see any NGOs amongst those present, or those names you said. Here, I'm trying somewhere to see if there's anyone from the Open Society Fund, I guess there isn't. I don't know what other organizations you mentioned. So, Mr. Seselj, if we've determined where you are, if we've determined whose environment you're in, one thing's true, you were the only one who was seeing cartoons at that session of the European Integration Committee that you mentioned. That's absolutely true. But I have to tell you, whether you like it or not, that Sam Fabrica then addressed you, you are the only one who has said that you are among all the people present – the European Commission is right to say that there is too much urgent procedure in our parliamentary practice. We've all been saying-- he's wrong. We all said -- look at what these values look like, so compare it with some countries in the environment when they were in the role of Serbia today, when they were candidates, and you'll see, in Serbia it's much, much lower than it was there. You said - no, the European Commission is right, this is unacceptable and it has to be much lower. I'm telling you right now, he's gonna have to admit to the European Commission that right now, this year it's so low that there's just no such example. Whoever you compare it to, in Serbia, it's on such a good level that it's just going to have to be admitted. Are you going to admit it too? I honestly don't, I'd like you to admit, I'd like you to understand that this is the only right way and it's so obvious, as it is obvious that when you get up in the middle of the Great Hall, the National Assembly and you say -- when this is finally going to be talked about in the Assembly, that people can just fold their shoulders, smile a little bit and say, well, well, now you've convinced us that you're not in the Assembly, that you're not in direct transmission, that it's not being discussed openly and that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia will not be declared. Mr. Seselj, if you want to do that, you can do that, but then that means only one thing, you've brought yourself down to the level of cartoons from Old Town, you know those Bastaces, Miljuš and similar to them, and you think it's right. (President: Thank you. You think that's right? Answer that question to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66254	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Mr. Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66255	Mr. Vladimir Orlic is very creative in interpreting events in the past few months since the work of the National Assembly, and I would not want to disturb him. I just want to say that these are not your proposals, these are not the proposals of the Serbian government, these are the proposals of NGOs that teach you election conditions, the electoral process, the democracies that arrived through the ministry. That's what you got from them, you didn't come up with it yourself, that's what you heard them say, they wrote it to you, and we're talking about it today. Instead of you being the biggest political party here, i.e. The representatives of the largest political party here, you yourself conclude that something is wrong here, you are waiting for a dictatorship from abroad, first through NGOs, then also through former MEPs. So that's a fact. Instead of us talking about it, instead of listening to our appeals for three years before this Soroš started gathering you together with these Gilas, according to those buds where you were meeting first, instead of listening to what we were saying about the emergency session procedure, about the merger of agendas and everything else, that you were reacting to, no, you were waiting for a dictatorship from abroad. We can ask this coalition partner of yours at the level of the city of Novi Sad, Nenada Chanka, who is your chairman of the European Integration Committee, what exactly happened there. I believe, since it's your coalition partner, that you have confidence in him and that he won't lie to you. We can look at the stenogram and the video and everything else, he came, Mr. Sam Fabrizio came to give you a lecture and he released the presentations and you all came here to watch it, you humiliated the National Assembly, you gave a stranger to speak to us in the Assembly, it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. You ignored that fact and acted like everything was fine. I was the only one against it at that session. It can be looked at, can be determined, don't be fooled. We want to say that the problems in our election process exist. We saw it in Bear, we saw it in Meroshina. Let's solve them for our own good, not because they're pushing us from abroad so that this variant B, their plan B, of these EU representatives, can participate in the elections. That is the basic reason why this is being conducted today in Serbia, why this is being brought and why you are meeting with all of them as SNS President, Mr Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66256	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66257	Okay, so you're not in the National Assembly, you're not speaking in the Great Hall transfer, that's what we've established. Let's move on, what else were we able to determine? You say these laws were not drawn up by the Serbian government, they are not its proposal. Here's your first law, the government based on the members of this and that, submits a bill on amendments and additions to the National Assembly, that's your first. On the second, amazingly, the Serbian government again submits a proposal to the National Assembly. Third, and it says, believe it or not, here's what I can see is that you've probably read these proposals so accurately, so you know, but let me surprise you further, after we've determined where you are, let me tell you and that you know what you're discussing. Four proposals drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be declared by the National Assembly, again, believe or not, of the Republic of Serbia. The NGOs you say have had a crucial impact on these proposals, for your information, here are sending some of their amendment proposals. Then what they did, they wrote as their own, if they say now – no, we want something different. So think about it, so you're just gonna get caught up in it, is this something that we or someone else are trying to determine? After all, everything and that I don't know who made the proposal to determine in which form it is adopted, so here we are. The National Assembly, if they think something's wrong, they'll take it. If he wants to change, he'll change to a mile of will. If she wants to adopt, she'll adopt. If she doesn't want to adopt, she won't. But you know who's asking, it's the People's Assembly, and what you say they write, they write, but they have some demands that, as you can see, are not the subject of these changes and additions. As far as foreigners in the National Assembly are concerned, I was especially impressed by you. After we've determined where you are and what suggestions you're discussing, let's just find out if you've broken the law or who broke the law when we hosted Mr. Medvedev here together? Turns out we broke the law and the Rules of Procedure. You're saying a stranger can't talk to us here, and what about Mr. Lukashenko a few days ago? Please inform Vojislav Seselj that he has violated both the law and the Rules of Procedure, which was there, supported Lukashenko's speech and even came to greet him. You see it's funny, so you guys are funny too. So, please, instead of saying things that are funny to you too, which are funny, I admit, they must be funny to anyone who's watching this transmission, think about it a little bit, and you're doing this right. You want to discuss the laws, we can. As you can see, nothing burdens us, nothing makes us nervous, anything can. We are absolutely certain that we will have good bill proposals, that we will have good solutions based on which to say – we are the ones who have introduced more transparency and more accuracy and more democracy if you will, than anyone in this country ever has. Under these conditions, of course we're going to win, as we've won under any other, even someone else's. Under these conditions, if they're better, surely we can only win more convincingly, and whoever brings them together, so I don't know, you said Soros. Which Soroš brings you together with fascists in Old Town you can't tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66258	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66259	I would like Mr. Orlic to be as determined and impertinent at meetings with those foreigners who are leading the main word here when he represents his party, just as he is today, as he is fiercely defending all of this, so he also advocates respect for the dignity and integrity of the National Assembly when Kukan and Flekenstein come to him to explain to him what he should do. If this is all so true, that you have come to these conclusions on your own, that you yourself have remembered what needs to be done here, that it has been without the pressure of NGOs and former MEPs, how is it possible that you have not done this before, but just now that we have seen and heard all of them first, that they resent you all? How did you not listen to us three years ago but remember now, only when Kukan and Flekenstein, Soros and Antonijević, Sonja Licht and others came? That's a little illogical. It doesn't make any sense around here. You compare that you and your coalition partner at the New Now level allowed Sam Fabrizia to participate in the work of the European Integration Committee, where he discusses, there explains the reports of the European Commission. For this there was absolutely no reason to violate the Rules of Procedure, since the report was in Serbian. You also compare it with the address of the Russian Federation's Prime Minister at the session. It exists in every parliament, not only here, and Mrs Gojkovic has spoken to Russia's Duma, here, will be confirmed by Mr Marinkovic. So it's so at the formal sessions, i.e. Special sessions, and no foreigner, anywhere in the world, can participate in the Committee's work only in advanced Serbia under the leadership of Nenad Canka, as chairman of the Committee on European Integration. So it's just facts. Don't compare, please, insult both us and the National Assembly. What would Vukic say if he heard you compare Fabrizio to Lukashenko and Medvedev? I think you'd be carrying sanctions in your party, Mr. Orlic. Please beware of such statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66260	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. I haven't seen you, Mr. Risticevic, I apologize, please. Just pick up the Rules of Procedure next time. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66261	Article 107. You rarely see me. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, committees can invite guests who use the committee to work. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy has repeatedly invited guests from the country, but also from abroad. No one objected when we called the representatives of the embassy of the Russian Federation, and there were several. The goal was not to add ourselves to the Russian Federation, but to show seriousness in the control of the export of food, fruit, vegetables and other agricultural products, and there were no problems. The only problem is that this must be announced by the Security Service and the Secretariat, as it is about passports, foreign documents, foreign citizens, they are subject to special procedures at the entrance to the National Assembly. But when it comes to the work of the board, when something is going in favor of the board, in favour of the committee's work, in favour of precision, it is possible to invite domestic natural and legal representatives, but also the party. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management only called on representatives of the Russian Federation, since it was an issue concerning exports to the Russian Federation. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66262	Mr. Risticevic, thank you for these suggestions. Now the right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66263	So we found that guests from different countries participated in the work of the National Assembly on several occasions, in several different ways. Among other things, it was on congregation committees. Among other things, I remember once when there were also certain guests from the Russian Federation, and it didn't bother you at all, you even seemed to me, with other MPs, some of your colleagues, to participate in a joint press conference with those guests. But it is much more important that you have found that there is no question as to how, to quote you, it is wrong to claim that it is unacceptable for a stranger to address himself in the National Assembly. You literally said so. It's very good that you won't, I suppose, be carrying any party coincidences in that sense. I believe it would be uncomfortable if you had to explain to your party leader Vojislav Seselj that he broke the law and the Rules of Procedure by saying goodbye here to President Lukashenko. I believe that would be very embarrassing. I'm glad if you're spared that inconvenience. After we've determined where you are, where you're talking, after we've determined who made the proposals you're trying to talk about, after we've determined what the standard practice of the National Assembly is when it comes to guests from our friendly countries, we still have to see what we're going to do with these activities that we're discussing. I said it, but whoever heard it heard it. These activities, gentlemen, have been going on for years. So this didn't start a month or a year ago. For years, our electoral process has been improving, among other things, that includes various RIK activities, but others because the government has been dealing with observers' recommendations for years backwards, literally years ago. What we're discussing right now is some crown of the works of these activities. Some activities still remain to be finalized. One of them is certainly the board of directors. Your party seems to have had a crucial impact on the idea of the Supervisory Board in general in the Law on the selection of MPs. Right? That supervisory board was an absolutely necessary prerequisite, if you look at your Gilas and his, for the election to be fair and democratic. Is that what they said? If there isn't a monitoring board, then there won't be any control, and without that board, the government can do what it wants and what it wants. We said there's no problem. You, therefore, have never formed the former regime, Gilasov, Jeremic and Tadic, not once. Here, we will, we have no problem with that, because, as I told you, we are not running away from any election conditions. On election terms and better and worse, we will win anyway and make them better than ever. (President: Thank you. I'm done. We, as far as I know, made our proposal for a board member, I don't know if you did. Is it? Now, since you have accepted that there are things that we are implementing in this country and that we will implement until the day we enter the election campaign, be consistent with it until the very end, make your contribution, control freely through your member of that monitoring board the work of printed and electronic media. But while you're at it, just come in, by the way, let us know if you broke up with Bastic's bag in Old Town, or you'll be overseeing a fair democratic election process at the same time with this Bastic, that you're blasting it and making a mess of the Old Town, just so we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66264	Thank you. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66265	I know that Mr. Vladimir Orlic had his authentic opinion, but after meetings at the Faculty of Political Sciences and with representatives of the European Parliament he adopted their opinion. I believe the trail of the store was like that. Can we compare the fact that at the session of the European Integration Committee, a representative of the European Union in Serbia held a letter to the MPs, explained to them what they should and how to do, discussed, therefore, participated in the work of the Committee and that Dmitry Medvedev or Lukashenko spoke to guests from abroad at a special session of the National Assembly? Are those two things even for comparison? I don't think so. I think that we should be proud that Lukashenko has spoken here and that he is our friend and ally, from the most difficult time for our country, as well as Prime Minister Medvedev, who is the prime minister of the country which is our greatest, most sincere ally on the international agenda, above all, that we should be happy and proud of it, and that we should be ashamed of the Committee's participation in the work, it is a shame. So that's something inadmissible, and you've made it possible for your coalition partner from the New Sad city level Nenad Canak. If we're talking about local self-governments, if it's the same thing as Bastac, if it's the same thing, you guys do the investigation, arrest everyone who stole it, see if there's any radicals, whether there's Bastac or who's got everything there. If even this is proved to be true, that some of these machinations exist there, I'm afraid that we don't have a situation from Pozeg municipality, where the police also broke in, arrested criminals and turned out to be criminals, so those who were from municipal leadership in crime, all the way to one were members of the SNS, and radicals who were also in the coalition government were not accused of anything because they were not involved. Radicals don't deal with crime. So, first of all, I'd like you to maybe take a little bit of care about all this, and if you have any knowledge of all this, please, as your vice president of the party, first thing in the morning, go to the D.A.'s office, file criminal charges, and then we'll talk about the consequences and what's really been going on there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66266	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66267	Well, in the end, we came to the conclusion that foreign citizens can speak in the National Assembly, but the question seems to be just who they are. So if it is those you like, they can, and those you don't like, they can't. That's what the story is about. And, well, there's no problem at all. I'm just surprised you don't like Mr. Fabrizio. Honestly, I'm a little surprised. I'm not gonna say I'm worried. This whole thing is really entertaining me. Now, since we've determined who you're getting along with, since we've determined who sent this material you're trying to talk about, where you're at, it's very important that we've established. I just want to tell you a few more things at the end. As for that old town of yours, yours and Gilasov, and that bag of Bastac, just don't, please, please, tomorrow, when the authorities deal with it, you act like this Jeremy Aleksic, so that you yell, "Ow, that's unfounded reporting." Don't be like them, when it comes to the prosecution, and you remember, this Alexic was saying something, some nonsense and lies, so when it comes to it, here, we'll, since you heroes can only talk nonsense, but you don't have the courage to address the prosecution in a way that's prescribed, here we are going to say, come on, the prosecution finds out exactly what it was, what's true here and what's not. May he give everyone an opportunity to plead, so that no doubt remains with the citizens of Serbia what is true. He cried out at all mouths - oh, no, it's an unfounded application and thus practically admitted that he was telling lies, thus practically admitting that there was nothing in it. We just said, come on, check out what Alexic said. Alexic's yelling - there's nothing there. Is that funny to you? I believe it's as funny to you as it was just before you laughed. It's pretty funny to me, to some extent, and it's sad, when you and Bastac, who you say yourself, if it really was him or someone else, it's fascism, you sit still. You called it that. We've been accused, he says -- we're not saving words to Dragan Gilas. You said here the other day to this Gilas, who is such a thief, such a bad guy, we don't even recognize the right to assume innocence, because we know it's obvious, with the naked eye, what it is and how much he steals. That's your word. Then what do you do with people like that? In the end, what will they do and how to deal with the election process, well, they say themselves, says your Bastac - I will take SO Old Town and not let anyone but me enter it. And I'm just asking-- do you want to support it, as you support it today while it steals it? You want to support him in usurping institutions? You want to take part in this? Tell us, just so we know. On the one hand, you fight for democracy, you control the process through the work of the Supervisory Board, through the work of the RIK, through the work of the electoral committees, will you protect that democracy that you're supposed to be fighting, at the same time, to tear down with those gardeners and with that of your Alexic, who, among other things, said -- we will prevent the election, physically. That's what he said. That's all you've got to do, so we can all be clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66268	Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Replica, just short.) You as Mr. Mircic, just 30 seconds. If you don't mind, Mr. Seselj, let's get this over with. (Alexander Seselj: Please, just let me explain.) ) Please, just six, seven times already. Let's move on. You've all had equal opportunity. We can't do this until the day of judgment. Thank you for understanding. (Alexander Seselj: Business. You can't do business now. (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) Does anyone else report from representatives of the parliamentary groups? (Alexander Seselj: Business. I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure when we get to the list. It's not a problem. Then we move on to the list of MPs according to the application for word. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go. (Alexander Seselj: Please do not comply with the European Commission. I gave you six replicas, both to you and to Mr. Orlic. (Alexander Seselj: Please, why don't you let me explain? You've had enough chance to really say whatever you want, but the debate has lost its full meaning. You about Fabrizio, he about Bastac. I'm in charge of running a session, not modeling your personal conflict here. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, Doctor. (Alexander Seselj: How can you do that? Why don't you let me talk? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66269	I'd just like to ask you to give me back this little time that's been taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66270	Please give my colleague Fehratovic a chance to speak to us. Why won't you let me explain? Here, I don't want to mention Bastache. Here, I'll allow Dr. Fehratovic, and I'm sorry. (Alexander Seselj: Excuse me, excuse me, I'm looking for the Rules of Procedure, you have to give me the word first. Please, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66271	I mean, we're very close, so there's a mix of frequencies between me and my colleagues. (Alexander Seselj: Business. Please, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66272	Please, don't take the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66273	Thank you. I'm going to ask you to give me back the time that's passed... The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates... .. (Alexander Seselj: Business. Explain to me, why don't you give me your word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66274	Excuse me, colleague Fehratovic, I'm going to have to take a break from Article 112, my colleague Seselj simply won't let you speak, and it's better not to waste your time. I'm sorry on behalf of the National Assembly for that. Five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Let's move on. The word has a folk MP, counterpart Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go. (Alexander Seselj: Business. Mr. Marinkovic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. ) Comrade Fehratovic, wait a minute. The word is made by the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66276	Thank you for showing you have the democratic potential to respect the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to congratulate you on that, and I want you to continue by applying this Rules of Procedure, not creatively interpreting and arbitraryly doing it. Therefore, the first Article 107 was injured. You had to stop earlier, when it came to this comparison and in some ways offending some foreign guests who came to us here at the Special Session of the Assembly. We have very unfairly neglected the fact that here, in these bill proposals and everything else regarding the electoral process, Soros, who oversees the greatest part of the pro-Western opposition, as well as the ruling parties, leads the main word. We could see that in the National Assembly, at these consultations with former European MPs, but also at the Faculty of Political Sciences. So, if it hadn't been for Soros and his initiatives, this law would never have come to the National Assembly on the agenda. Why should that be a secret? Why is that supposed to be hidden? We point out that this is very bad, that it is bad for Serbia that it shows that Serbia is a country that is limited to sovereignty, that we do not make our own decisions, but only listen to a foreign dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66277	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Alexander Seselj: No. Thank you. The word is Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66278	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, any kind of improvement in the electoral process is really important and necessary. We have different traumatic experiences from previous election processes, because there were many, irregularities, many, abuses and disrespects, even those election rules that were prescribed by both the law and the special rules of the RIK. Therefore, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support these proposals, as well as as participating constructively in the discussions that are already being held about participation in the upcoming elections, but we express our concern that these changes and additions are not only paperwork and that it is very important to implement them on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to illustrate this to you in a very specific example. Here, there's a diplomatic passport in my hand that I got as a folk MP and I've been using for three, four years now, but two days ago at the border crossing of the Uvac, I literally held off for 45 minutes, even though I was showing this diplomatic passport. These people who speak at the border are fine with your travels, but you are not in the system. And then they repeat that you have no other document? I say - this passport has passed four documents, it's been through this border 15, 20 times, it's never been a problem of that kind. But 45 minutes say that the diplomatic passport issued by the Foreign Ministry to me as a national MP does not exist in the border system of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, when I tell them that I know the reason why there is no reason only in Priboj, that at the previous session, I spoke to the Minister of the Interior about irregularities at the Pryboy Police Station and that probably that's why I'm harassing a group of students, then they say, rather, in a minute -- everything's fine, you can go on. On our way back from Sarajevo, we are crossing the border crossing, but in Priboj himself, traffic police are stopping us and harassing me over and over again as the carrier of the diplomatic passport, the immunity of the MP and a group of students, without any explanation, trying to impose something that is not true. If it hadn't been for the reaction of one of our esteemed colleagues from Priboj, they were ready to take us to the police station. Why? Because we pointed out irregularities at that police station here at the present minister. What do I want to say about this? That it is very important that all these changes and additions be implemented in the entire territory of the Serbian state, because unfortunately, as for me in Priboj, the diplomatic passport was not worth it, until I rebelled a little bit, and it was worth it for both America and Africa, and for Asia and for 40, 50 European countries where I was staying, as well as these electoral processes, the laws we change will probably not be worth where it does not fit the local authorities and where they will in any way try to abuse their powers. We have experience to say that I don't tell you here many times about the famous footage of the theft of the election in Tutin that we've recorded and reported, the lawsuits we filed, here's six years of no trial of this open theft. We have evidence that every time at these sites, especially in Tutin, in Sjenica, etc., in the final hours of the election process, a large number of police officers together with criminal groups are pressured against voters in polling stations and everything is notable. However, no response from the authorities and sanctions against them. Therefore, as well as abuses of official positions, public officials, so nice, I don't know myself, vehicles of purity snakes transparent, etc., but never any sanctions. It is very important to us that these changes that are being adopted today or these days are being implemented, i.e. that they are valid throughout the territory of the Serbian state just as this passport and my immunity of the MP should apply in Priboj, because it is the border crossing of this country, because it is a border crossing controlled by our border police. It should also apply to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. It's just, I'll end up, it wasn't just me, it was the problem that there were 15 students on that expedition, eight or nine girls who were forced to stand in late hours to be bullied by the police. Why? Because someone dared to say something about police abuse their powers in a city that is a city in the Republic of Serbia. That's why we're really ready to do everything we can to implement these legal solutions, because if these are just formal changes, and in the election day, there are no changes in the election process, but there are the same conditions as before, and I'm not talking about abuses of voter lists, then there won't be any shifts. We believe, we hope, that this time indeed, looking at this determination of those who have the power to implement these laws, there will be concrete changes. We hope so, and according to that, we will support the announced amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66279	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66280	Just for a little while. First, let me say I'm sorry if it really happened that it wasn't possible to read the travel document, but just so you know, it has nothing to do with anyone personally. The same thing happened to some of us. It happened to Ambassador Risticevic with a diplomatic passport. It happened to me with my personal passport. Sometimes simple, you know, technique fails. That digital reader, that device on the table, doesn't do it right. This does not affect the validity of the document or should affect the conduct of the official at that time. The second thing, the more important thing, that you touched -- the electoral list. It's just these suggestions, but not just these suggestions, you know that here, we're talking about those who are able to hear and understand, those who don't have to, just because of all these things we do today we have a more accurate electoral list than ever before, and that's not all. Today, there is a possibility that an electronic, remote check can be made to see if the citizen is listed in that polling spot he belongs to, where he currently resides. Now we're introducing something completely new -- the possibility that every man can check after the election process itself, so it's not just measures related directly to the election day, but it's for the whole period before and after that election day, that he can check if it's registered that he voted. Maybe someone doesn't want to go to the election, they have the right to do it, they can check if it's recorded whether he voted or not, and by doing that, I'm confident, completely eliminates any suspicion. You've already heard how these Gilas and many others talk, from that camp of theirs, how someone abuses and votes instead of people who didn't go out. Now it's getting completely declassified to talk about it. Nice can be found black on white anyone can check for themselves. If I didn't get out if it was recorded that someone voted for me, it wasn't anyone. So that's one of the things we've made possible, and on the subject of the election results. In addition to being, I am convinced you well know, absolutely impossible illegal actions on the subject when it is known that everyone has their representatives on the spot, that these representatives are following the material, and when the material comes to count again in a place where all their representatives have numbers, we now further provide a higher level of transparency. These records, which have always been published in the polling post, will now be available, as they say, on-line, according to this new speech. So they'll be able to remotely use the Internet, everyone will be able to check and make sure that's exactly what the situation is. I'm sure we'll agree on that, such measures and such proposals deserve only to be supported by all of us here and from you and from us and anyone who cares about us having the best possible election process. After all, it is the interest of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66281	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Dr. Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66282	Thank you for these words of support. If it hadn't been for this second detention after a few hours back, I might have believed there was a mistake in not being able to read the passport. However, on the way back from that event in Sarajevo, traffic police are harassing us again for 45 to 50 minutes. I said if there wasn't a colleague from your party from Priboj, we'd probably have been threatened by those traffickers, taken to a police station. So, it wasn't intentional and it wasn't just the order, it was very targeted and intended to show itself, to prove that whoever is the local sheriff can abuse his powers to, so someone who's a MP, who's chosen by the votes of the citizens of this country still show him that he doesn't have to touch every topic. I agree with you that a lot has been fixed and we hope, so I said, it's encouraging because these changes are and certainly deserve our support in every way, but this fear that we have is also quite real. And that's why in time we say that it's very important that everything that is in the change package be implemented in the election process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66283	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. Let's go, let's keep working. The word is Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At first, I would like to make a request to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. More than two months have been protesting veterans, participants in the defence wars of the Republic of Serbia or the SRJ during the previous period in the park between the Assembly and the Presidency of the Republic. In those two and more months, I spoke to Resor Minister Djordjevic several times, who explained to me some possibilities, but also the inability to meet, but also General Delic, who often visited them. I see no reason for more than two months for participants in our country's defence not to be worthy of visits and talks with the President of the Republic. I appreciate that the President of the Republic is extremely busy with various state obligations, but he could surely have found in more than two months ten minutes that, for the third month, neighbours and neighbours would be honored by a single reception and a conversation in which many unresolved issues could be resolved, regardless of the draft law that will soon be the subject of discussion here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So once again I appeal to the President of the Republic to receive participants in our country's defence wars and to speak with them. On Saturday, they had a protest rally and a protest walk. I was at a protest rally, I wasn't on a protest walk, and no means of informing did not bring any information about it. Also, I want to point out that my friends helped me collect some information on one of the topics that will be discussed at this session of the Assembly. According to these data in Australia in the last 60 years, turnout in the elections has not dropped below 90%, turnout in the last parliamentary elections in Belgium was 89.37%, in Bolivia 87.45%, in Argentina 80%, in Greece alone in the year of the debt crisis and limited payments on ATMs and savings banks was below 70%. What has enabled this kind of turnout that is incomparable to the turnout in our elections? First of all, the view of democracy as the rule of the people. In order for the people to rule, then citizens, members of a nation, to master their steps in the democratic process, to exercise their rights, to fulfil the obligation to vote in the elections -- presidential, parliamentary and local. Practice in the world and in our country tells us that a large number of citizens are not using this right, and this produces a number of consequences for one country and society in general. To warn these consequences, my proposal is that the right to vote, which is the basis of democracy, becomes also a legal obligation, as is the case in those and other countries. That is why I propose that the Republic of Serbia commits its citizens to the elections and at least allow the diaspora to vote electronically, because it is impossible to participate differently in the election, and that is one of the main reasons why we have turnout in the elections, i.e. failure to vote with 40 per cent and more, which is essentially the largest voter participation, i.e. the failure of voters in the elections. There are more countries in the world besides those I listed in Belgium, Greece... Luxembourg also has an obligation to go to elections, Australia also, Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Mexico, Uruguay, Peru, Costa Rica, Paraguay, Egypt, Congo, Singapore, Thailand, etc. It is the same legal obligation in all those countries, but there are differences in sanctions for non-compliance. Australia has a fine of a few dozen dollars. In Belgium, if you do not go out for four electoral rounds, you lose your right to vote within 10 years. In Bolivia, unless you have a special card that you voted in the elections, you have been disabled from raising your salary for the next three months since the elections were held. Greece has no more legally prescribed penalties for non-exit, but citizens who do not exercise their right to vote can face administrative obstacles in obtaining certain documents from the driver's license and others. The most important result of such an electoral policy in all the countries mentioned is high turnout in the elections, and this gives far greater legitimacy to all elected MPs than is the case in countries where there is no such obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66285	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66286	It'll be short and only on one subject, since we've talked a lot about who and how it votes from the world and how it's arranged. What I considered more important, on the question – as the country today refers to the heroes who defended the country, we also talked a lot about how much more respected they are today and how much more respected they are for example, today you have the relevant features, and also the boulevards that bear the name by, undeniably, the heroes of our country and how the state at the most possible level refers to different jubilee and to important dates. It was completely unimaginable until 2012. You know how he treated these people and how significantly different, in a positive sense, the situation today. I just wanted to do everything we said to add one thing that I believe you didn't hear, you or the citizens of Serbia in 2009 was exactly 10 years from the defence of the state during NATO aggression. Is that right? Who thought of those people then? Is that jubilee marked in any way? Did anyone give these people their hand and say, "Thank you?" It's not. You remember why. The state was ruled by those who found only justification for aggression on their own country, for destroying their own people. This year, 20 years. This is what the military monument looks like about the 20th anniversary of the defense of the country from NATO aggression. This is how the state treats these people today. So the state run by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS appreciates everything these people have provided their homeland and it can adequately mark it. It was a charter, and this is what the monument looks like. I believe you'll agree that the difference is enormous. We are, above all, committed to our country, and we are more than aware of the contribution of who was involved in the defense of the country. For us, she is sacred, and these others have shown everything. It's a lot of times on this case, and maybe the best way to break it is to use it as a national flag, using it as a stick most common, trying and breaking glass at the front door of the House of the National Assembly. So much for them, and so much for Serbia today, Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66287	Thank you. The right to the replica has Professor Dr. Chevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66288	I do not dispute that there has been respect for the country's defence participants, but I see no reason why the President of the Republic cannot accept the representatives of this group for more than two months. I don't know what their demands are. I spoke to the minister, and he told me he was talking. There are some things this country can't meet, and he explained it to me. I'm not getting into it, but I don't think it makes sense for these people to welcome New Year's Eve and Christmas under tents in a park between the two most significant state institutions in the Republic of Serbia, which is on the one hand the Assembly, and on the other hand the Presidency of the Republic. The President of the Republic, I believe, can and wants to take ten minutes to discuss with the previous preparation of that meeting by his associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66289	Thank you. Now the word has been given by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I respect it when someone who came from the electoral list "fire, break" remembers Serbian signs. A team before our ancestors mostly the peasant army died would rather fall than let their flag fall. As far as the election is concerned, we have no problem, ladies and gentlemen, with the election. We have no problem with the opposition. We have no problem with either part of the opposition boycotting the work of the National Assembly, it intends to boycott the elections. We have a problem with Gilas and Sollac. We have a problem with Gilasov and Šolak's businesses, because Teleko is rising. The dominant SBB operator, which has 20 of its fake cross-border channels, which pumps 500m euros annually, does so with the help of REM. We still have three REM members to appoint. We don't have a problem with REM either. We have a problem with a 500m-euro business that is pumped across fake cross-border television. So we have no problem with the election or the opposition. We have a problem with these two, Solak and Gilas, who hired a physical workforce and instead of opening the door with a ram, try it with Bosic, and then try with the sacred Serbian flag. If I were given REM Gilas and Sollac at the same time by physicists, who do stupid things, and the vandal-hulligan gang around Belgrade would stop demonstrations. That's what's hurting them. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, democracy is not possible in an isolated country. We are not an isolated country, but democracy is also not an import-export product. Democracy cannot be introduced from one era to another. Democracy can't even be introduced from one country to another country. Democracy can be created from the inside and it is variable. Society is changing, democratic processes are under way, and it must constantly fertilise and improve. The fact that these unfortunates aren't going to contribute to my thesis. They don't care about democracy, they don't care about the tree of democracy being watered, restored, etc. First of all, they care about money, and I wonder why Bosko Obradovic's supporters want to die for Solak and Gilas's business. Recently, Milija Miletic, whom I will grant the rest of the time, was in Slovenia for two, three days and had a task in front of our parliamentary group to see and check Yugoslavia's Cosic's claim that the N1 programme and Nova S TV is being re-routed from Slovenia. Two, three days he was trying to find these channels in Serbian and couldn't find them. That's why he'll probably explain it to you the rest of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66291	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66292	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, like this, I don't know if I should be what the young man would say to a partybreaker or not, but I have to admit that I don't really agree with these laws, and I'm not sure I'm going to vote for this for the simple reason that such an atmosphere is being created in this society that approximately if you're a party official or a party member, you're someone who's the worst in this society. Guys, constitutional breaks guarantee. The parties go to the election. Citizens transfer sovereignty to these MPs who put the parties on electoral lists, and then we here forbid all officials who are party workers to do anything and lead to absurdities party work, and we even have a law by which you can't be the director of a public enterprise if you're a party official, and why is that? If you're a member of a party you're less valuable, what? We now have the incredible demands of the NGO sector, thank God you didn't accept that, that if you're a party official, and you're in some position, you can't participate in an election campaign at all. Well, people, that's not normal. That's not normal. Let's not lead things to absurdity. They're not looking for this. People need to know why they're looking for this kind of nonsense, just for one reason - that Alexander Vukic is not participating in the campaign. That's the only reason they want to shut him out of the whole story. Because I guess that's what they think, so they can beat the SNS more easily. I'm sorry, I have to say something right now. Maybe it's heresy. I'm a supporter of a functioning campaign, and why don't we have a functional campaign? What's wrong with some clerk if he did something right in his public enterprise, in the ministry to brag that he did it? They say - yes, he did it to the people's money, I agree, but he designed the project. That team of his designed the project. Why not say it? Why is that problematic? I agree with this that public resources should not be used and I welcome that, except, of course, in the situation where you have people whose security system requires that they simply have security, so they have to use public resources. But I don't understand why a party official shouldn't say it at a public rally when something opens up – wait for this during my term, the term of office of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, President Vukic, doesn't matter. Why can't he say that and why he'll get a ticket for it? It's hypocrisy. I really don't want to support it and it's certainly my right, but I'll think of it for a simple reason – why? We're going to meet these people in the NGO sector, and I'm going to remind you how it all started. First they tell us how bad our ballots are. There are no voter lists. Their authority has established a single electoral list. So they didn't know it either, so they found that the voter list was great, that it was never better arranged, so that story went down, and then they went on a functional campaign. You know in the period when Tadic was petting "Fiat", when he was petting the calves in the stables, etc. It was great and okay then, and nobody ever said anything about it, and now suddenly it bothers you, imagine, if Alexander Vukic opens up a road somewhere. Well, thank God he's got something to brag about. Well, thank God, at the time of this government, so many roads were made, so many factories were brought in, so why shouldn't we brag about it? We want the citizens to know what we've done. Among other things, when you go to an election campaign, you account for what you've done to the citizens, and we're now in an absurd situation that if I'm a functionist, I can't say it anywhere because someone's limiting me. When we accepted these requirements, they came to the next idea now – this is not enough but must be completely excluded from the election campaign. Guys, come on, let's really do this absurd thing. So let's end the parties, let's end the public enterprises at all, let's ban anyone who's a party member from doing anything then, because it seems to be less worth it. I have to admit that this demagogue about extra-party people. It's getting on my nerves. I'm not a fan of this about these extra-party personnel, and I have to say even the most honest government of ours, except for Anna Brnabić, who is really doing a great job, but most of the extra-party officials we've brought in, the right to tell you, they haven't shown themselves very well. It doesn't mean at all that if you're extraordinarily that you're great now, and you're very good, and that if you're a party member, you're about to do nothing. It's one stupid demagogy that's in control here, and I don't understand why it's all being accepted. Then they moved on to the next phase – RTS and REM. Why are they doing this? They want REM to take over, completely take over. People need to know exactly what their request was. So they're not looking for REM as they found it in their time, then it was, as it was called, now it's a regulator, and before it was a RATEL, they found it as an independent institution, where, of course, it's prescribed by law as they choose, and now they're looking for the next one -- that the parties agree who they're going to delegate to REM and ask us to have a political agreement. Now we should probably go to Patriarch Irine or Sinode SPC and say, you know, we have a political agreement and we just want the Sinode SPC to delegate whoever he wants, for example. Nebojsa Zelenović, but not for example who SPC delegates itself. That's what they want and it's really not normal. Same with RTS. They're asking the Assembly to change RTS. It doesn't change the RTS Assembly. By the way, I'd like to join them if the entire RTS leadership were replaced. I think it's the worst TV and I think it's ultra opposition TV and every time you go on the show you have three to one – the host and at least two opponents against you. I think it's the worst TV ever. I don't know why they're protesting their personnel at RTS. Here I would join them if the entire leadership were to be replaced just to find a way to do it. The same for REM, because I, say REM, resent why REM is not responding, and why is a TV that flurgantly violates the law on the side is not broadcasting its signal either in Luxembourg or Slovenia, lying about re-emissioning the program here, why is REM not responding and prohibiting it from broadcasting? Of course, I just have to say that what they're looking for, it's really not normal. In the end, when they found out that neither RTS nor REM nor anything else was helping, they came up with the next request to move the election date. Well, that's just crazy. Guys, then let's not respect the Constitution. They're even looking for a Lex special, even though they know that any special law can't derivate the Constitution, it's completely abnormal, they're now asking us to move the election date, because, well, someone whispered to them that they might be able to win. I suggest, because this is how we accept everything they're looking for, then let's guarantee their victory in the election. Well, what if we were to bring them in nice and nice so they wouldn't be banging here in front of the assembly anymore? I must say, I personally resent Alexander Vukic and resent the entire state apparatus, why isn't he reacting against this savagery? I'm sorry, someone's walking down the street, so he can come to you, out of pure peace, a lunatic like Bosko Obradovic, who doesn't come here to the Assembly, but that's why he comes knocking on the door and can attack you in the middle of the street with those savages he's going through. Well, is that normal? Is the state going to react here once? Will it protect most of the minority? We have a minority here, who unfortunately has media and financial logistics, harassing the entire population, harassing the public, and nobody reacts at all. If I did what they did, they'd arrest me tomorrow, I'd go to trial, I'd be arrested. Excuse me, will the law be respected here sometime? Well, I'm sorry, if you're banging on the door of parliament like that, if you're breaking into RTS, if you're painting the door of RTS, if you're beating up a reporter, Pinka, if you're beating up, I don't know, fellow MPs, you're physically attacking them here, excuse me, will anyone be responsible for that? Try to surround the Jellysian Palace, try to surround, by chance, the British Parliament or beat on the door of the British Parliament, let's try it there. Then they say there's no democracy here. It seems to me that this is a bit of an exaggeration that, although democracy can never be exaggerated, this one really is slowly moving into some anarcho-state, and I don't like it at all, and I hope that the state will start applying the laws and simply punishing the wrongdoers. What I would like, as far as election and electoral legislation are concerned, is to be abolished urgently, and I no longer understand why it is not lifted and why it does not change, and that is electoral silence. That should be lifted immediately. Election silence is one nonsense that, I don't know what it is anymore, why does it exist in the era of social networks, in the era of the Internet, what is the meaning of the existence of electoral silence? I, here, vote first to eliminate it most urgently or even people if they break it, so that simply no one is punished for it. It's nonsense, which I really, really don't know why it exists and why it doesn't go away, like, personally, I can say, my own personal position, a supporter of imposing a mandatory vote. Because you can't ask the state to give you something, and the moment you need to give you something for the state, it's at least that voice, that you don't give a voice. So I'm personally a supporter of mandatory voting, but it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm in the majority and that it could just be adopted, but I'm always for that kind of discussion. In any case, what is proposed, if it is a promotion, okay, great, thank you, but I don't think that we should simply scold people who are party officials here, to be hypocrites, but rather, we should develop parliamentaryism, and the development of parliamentaryism depends solely on whether political parties are on a good and high level and I think that the political parties themselves should develop their own staff as well as pride and honor as possible to be a member of the political party. It's not very nice to have you, as an outsider, as an expert, so you're on some kind of advantage right now, I'm an absolute opponent of it. So that demagogue might stop a little bit. What I have to say in the end, which is to really call our activists, our party officials, people going to our elections, it's going to get harder, we're getting worse. Look what they're doing, look what they're up to. Guys, get ready to fight. Prepare to fight, because these will not have mercy on you, and if you are bewitched somewhere, if you remain silent, if you constantly withdraw from them and accept any aggression they have, and do not respond, believe me, they will continue to harass you and you will come into a situation that will even be a shame or fear to say that you are a member of the SNS. I'm proud to be a member of the SNS. I'm willing to defend every single one of our officials, the one who broke the law, let him go to jail, I don't mind, and that's the essence of ruling the SNS, but I won't let those who robbed the country destroy this country, who led this people to the brink of destruction, that they teach us lessons, that I will fight them with all the means, as much as I can and call on, of course our activists to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66293	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I am truly sorry that you are not a little more often in parliament. Next on the list, Mr. Alexander Stevanović. He's not there. My colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, whenever the elections are then being discussed election conditions, always in different formats. What I want to say at the beginning when the current situation, when this is a situation, is the story of the electoral conditions that are bad is a story that has nothing to do with the goal of repairing itself, but to serve only as a basis that it can otherwise act against the authorities, otherwise show its knowledge or ignorance, its inability to go to the violence that these intermediaries have, and what many of them have lately in Serbia from the EU, simply shut up or say freedom of expression. Is freedom of expression, and when you go in, you go in with a saw on TV to edit the program? I guess you turn on the saw, and that's how you do the program. Is freedom of regulation and freedom of expression even when the symbol of Serbia, the flag of Serbia, is defiled, so some think it's a balvan with which to tear down the assembly? It's kind of weird that those who show up at our house as middlemen, it's like freedom of expression. Pure violence, anarchy and I call upon the state authorities that everyone in this country has the right to freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, protest, everything, but no one has the right to violence in this country. I'm asking the lawyers here, is the attack on state institutions a felony, here's Nedjo coming in, a lawyer? What does that have to do with freedom of expression? The most severe injury, the most severe violence. I'm afraid my authority is too mild to look at such cases. When it comes to electoral conditions, everything stems from electoral legislation, and yet it does say – the electoral right within the meaning of this law covers the rights of citizens to be chosen and elected and elected in a manner and by procedure laid down in this law, candidates and candidates, to decide on proposed candidates for election lists, to ask candidates publicly, to be timely, truthfully, fully and objectively informed about the programmes and activities of candidates on those lists, as well as to have other rights provided for in this law. The whole law puts into one sentence. Just for a little while now, in a row. We get messages – the government needs to ensure fair elections, talks on better electoral conditions, the government to make room for free elections, the government to create conditions for free elections, etc. Let's see what's not available. The election for MPs is called by the President of the Republic, according to the law, has the only restriction that regular elections must be held no later than 30 days before the end of the term of office. The time hasn't come yet and they haven't been scheduled yet. The nonsense that appears in public about moving elections, how is that possible? Why? What does this have to do with electoral conditions, so that elections are not held within the regular period? It has nothing to do with election conditions. Furthermore, they say -- elections are organised by electoral authorities, election commissions, election committees. Each of them includes a representative of the applicants of each election list. So it's there to control, it's there to monitor, it's there not to allow, as I would say, any injury. Isn't that fair and fair? And it's all about everything. Afterwards, candidates may, under the conditions laid down by law, propose registered political parties, etc. Some may not suggest. They don't have to. They don't have to propose, they just have a reason, they don't have enough capacity, they don't have enough ratings, they didn't have the strength to participate, and so on, and that's perfectly normal. But it is not normal for these reasons when one atmosphere of hatred, violence, anarchy, anarchy, etc. is being created in Serbia. When it comes to electoral conditions, to point out that the government, whether I or not, has been in agreement, has been offering power since day one for a year to talk to everyone, government, NGOs, whoever you want, precisely because it intends to do everything it can to improve these electoral conditions. And please, answers to these white world mediators, this government is most eligible for fair and fair elections, because it's all done transparently, everything is clear and public, and therefore it's appropriate for them to be like that. Let's move on, voters have the right to report to the public, etc. It's true for everyone, it's even supposed to be a representation agreement. Here, it's also in the announcement of a supervisory board that will monitor all this. Okay, so it's the same for everyone. Then, a whole series of rules on the protection of electoral rights. There is only no protection against the entry of the night into RIK by Boška Obradovica, Dveri, beating members of the electoral commission, etc., it has really not been regulated here in this protection of election law. What do I mean? What else is there to do, and be careful, the election hasn't even been scheduled yet? Election conditions shall apply from the day of the election to the final announcement. Here's what's supposed to happen. Here, we now have a proposal for these four laws that, even more specifically and even more precisely, introduce even violations and penalties to clarify the functioning campaign. Please, a functioning campaign is essential to separate itself from a political campaign. But it cannot, nor must it be prohibited for a functionary to tell Serbian citizens what he was doing and what he is doing in that area and what is happening in that area. After all, when the government goes to the polls, it comes out with results of what it did, and the opposition goes with what it thinks should be done. I therefore ask the question and these four laws aim to make more precise and more detailed all these conditions and functional campaigns and the use of funds from budgets and public resources etc. to the end of the clarity. Now, my question remains, the question to all of us, when we do this, you know what happens next? It won't be good for election conditions again, because it's not about fixing election conditions, it's about telling us – there's something else that we need. And evidence of this, for the dialogue that is taking place in the Assembly, along with intermediaries from the European Parliament, I have a major objection and a great request to draw attention to these intermediaries. They need to be made aware, they are there to help us talk together with all parties from Serbia, but they are not representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, they are not their representatives. Why? Well, you saw for yourself, they go to breakfast at the Alliance for Serbia, then they come to talk to the parties of the authorities to pass on the request, and then they hold talks with what they say is the main part of the opposition and thus insults both Serbia and the opposition. What's the main part of the opposition, who's that? What are these criteria? Are these criteria that the main part of the opposition are those that are used in the political struggle by motor saws, balvanas, street violence, etc? Is that a criterion for being the main part of the opposition? And the other part, which is also the opposition, let me tell you, by ratings, that smaller part of the opposition has more rating than that of their main part of the opposition. Therefore, I will conclude only with this, let us also do this, of course, the goal is to create the best conditions to maintain as fair as possible, while at the same time having to make clear both in the state and out of the country – the difference between freedom of expression, freedom of organisation, freedom of protest and violence is great and the relationship to this should also be different. Thank you. Of course, I'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-09-0.u66295	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Minister Ruzic, we are finishing our work for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 68 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, so we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing our work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
