ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55672	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have the conditions to proceed with the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word of the MP general Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55673	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has held three scientific conferences in Serbia in the past ten days, namely the Symposium, 10th at the University of Defence and the Institute of Political Studies, and from 17th to 19th in Nis the International Symposium "Truth to Justice" organised by the Law Office "Alexic", the Orthodox Academy of Science, Art, Skills and Innovation of Serbia and the Association for the Security of Critical Infrastructure. My question is primarily directed towards National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. The scientific conferences asked the question of the results of the Commission of the Republic of Serbia's Government to examine the effects of the poored uranium on people and the environment and on the work of the assembly commission, which was also formed 13 months ago, on 18 May in this room last year, which was also meant to establish a causal link between the bombing, i.e. the fact of the poored uranium and human diseases and environmental damage. Our President, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, asked us last year for unity and was very engaged in the formation of this commission. We MPs showed unity because of 167 MPs, 166 voted in favour of the initiative. These documents stipulate that our committee should carry out the Assembly every six months on the results it has achieved in the six months. We here after a year have no information whether this assembly committee is meeting, whether there are any problems, because we as a people's business need to know. For that other commission of state formed by the government, we also need to know that she has done nothing and that she is not doing anything. But something that is symptomatic, gentlemen, in addition to these six-month reports, the first preliminary report that our commission is due to deliver to the public is the end of 2020. But, gentlemen, this Eleventh Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will not be in this room at the end of 2020, there may be some MPs, but by leaving the 11th, the assembly committee that was scheduled to announce the results will also leave. I'm kind of experiencing it then I can't say it as a kind of fraud, but we who have given full support for the formation of that commission will never know what she's done, because she simply won't be able to report this report because it won't be current anymore, it won't be a parliamentary commission. In order to help this committee, I have engaged several times, and I have brought Dr. Laketić to this meeting and the Doctors of science dealing with this problem. What is the basic problem in Serbia? In fact, there is one question that we need to answer – what do we really want? Do we want to know the truth? If we want to know the truth, gentlemen, then we have to have and form our national laboratory that will be accredited, which will have instruments that we don't have in the Republic of Serbia today and where each victim will be individualized or be given his name, through the victim, to establish this link between disease and poor uranium, and only then can all the statistics we're talking about be considered. The equipment missing Serbia costs 600,000 euros, and the material needed with that equipment will cost about 400,000 euros annually. Well, gentlemen, if we could give one Notre Dame overnight a million euros, I guess we can give our children, our soldiers and all the people of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to be right, but talking to these science doctors... (President: Time.) Let me just finish my sentence. ... I've come to understand with science doctors that the results are catastrophic, both in children and in adults. We, as MPs, must take this first step, to press, after all, and the government to obtain proper equipment, to form a national laboratory, because it has been 20 years. In 10 years, we'll have no one left to question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55674	Thank you, General Delic. Let's move on with the questions. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55675	The first question is referred to the Minister of Education and we ask him if he will resign, after learning that the math test for elementary school students in high school still leaked to the public from the press, since he himself claimed that something like this, thanks to him and his ministry, was impossible and that, quote the minister, "this hole has been clogged in the last three and a half years". So if the test came out of the print shop, then it's just a breach of the test distribution protocol. The protocol is directly within the ministry's jurisdiction and it is doubtless the minister's personal responsibility. He's very easy to claim, very soon after breaking the tests, that some women, some mothers, are responsible for taking the tests to the public. The latest findings, however, are that a printery worker has been arrested who directly took the tests out of the printing industry to the public. So we suggest that the Minister of Education express his personal responsibility and resign. The following question is referred to by the Minister of the Interior. Public information recently appeared that the new Police Powers Regulation, adopted on June 10th, came into force, with the use of tear gas, spray, shockers and electric sticks being detailed. The new Regulation provides for the use of electro-shockers and electric sticks and for people who are injured, they bleed a lot, but also for pregnant women and mentally ill persons, even in heart patients. Such provisions create enormous concerns, although the Regulation states that such means may only be used as a final and only remaining measure, with the obligation of officials to immediately provide medical care to those persons. But if you use an electro-shocker and an electric bat on a heart patient to provide ex post medical attention, there may be no time. We need an explanation which is the logic of such drastically measuring permits and against these powerless persons and persons in special states and we are interested in whether the Ministry of Interior intends to amend this rule and abolish such drastic provisions on the application of physical coercion? We are referring to another question from the Ministry of the Interior. Since July 1st, drivers in Serbia can get driver's licenses through the "Post Office of Serbia" at home address, at least that's how the driver's license rule, which was issued on June 13th and published in the "Official Messenger", we will see how it will actually work, but we are interested in whether this is planned with other personal documents and, above all, with travel documents? These days, in recent weeks and months, again, as every year during vacations, there has been a crowd around the interior ministry's counters, especially in larger urban areas. The crowds are mainly made for taking over new passports. When handing over requests for passports, the system of eGovernment and electronic appointments, to a certain extent, still manages to pre-warning the crowds, although there is also a long-term delay in all electronic schedules and it is impossible to schedule an electronic deadline for submitting passport applications. But the crowds are primarily there, rows and waiting in ranks, when raising passports. And the last question to the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister -- are they planning to hand over their version of the law on the financing of Vojvodina to the assembly procedure, because the adoption of such a law is also a constitutional obligation? The version of the law recently discussed here has not been passed, so we're wondering if the government is planning to submit its version? We also ask the question regarding the statement by the province's Prime Minister Igor Mirovic that only 10% of the waste water is being cleaned in Vojvodina and that the problem is being put high on the list of priorities, but that a significant financial resources need to be allocated to it, and in addition, more than 600,000 people in Vojvodina drink technically incorrect water that has arsenic in it, which is very dangerous and carcinogenic. So we have a problem with environmental protection that is very pronounced in Vojvodina and that needs to be financed and for which in the next 10-15 years we need over eight and a half billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55676	Thank you, colleague Guric. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55677	I'll start, my colleagues say it's heard and I'll start where I left off on Tuesday, a question for the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, which is why the state is selling its stake in the Commercial Bank? It is about a bank that is one of two, conditionally said, banks with majority or full state ownership and a bank that operates well, a bank that was the most significant financial institution in Serbia after the liquidation of those state banks in early 2000. This continues, I am afraid and completes this fatal practice, more authorities of the Republic of Serbia to sell out state resources, to sell out actually the resources of future generations with more or less good reasons and with more or less good projects. Regardless of whether the price is to be reached as expected or not, I think that the fatal practice is especially in credit financial institutions and others, as I would say to companies of vital national importance. During this government was sold only last year, the PKK was sold, RTB Bor was sold, several other companies are preparing from this list, and that is the IMF's recommendations, even with praise and fiscal advice as we could hear yesterday. I don't think that's good, especially since, frankly, this ruling majority, among other years, has criticised this practice, that privatisation and sales, but now literally, everything and everything, has announced that it will end this practice. That didn't happen. We remember how thundered, I would say for a reason, from these parliamentary benches only on the other side, that is, the then opposition, and now the ruling sides when they were liquidated at the beginning of two thousand years in one scandalous way, I agree, liquidated leading state banks headed by Beobank and others. So this is not so, far from it, but it's still devastating, because without justification in some and several successful domestic financial institutions, I think it's useless to expect anyone else to have more understanding of the needs of a domestic economy than a bank, a domestic bank owned by state property. That until they do good business, whether they have losses, whether their management is of quality or not, it is the responsibility of the government, the state and those who set up that management. I would remind you, too, of another, i.e. on my past question Tuesday, when I mentioned that scandal with a statement by a Montenegrin embassy official in Turkey, I won't quote it again, we all know what it is. The question was, just to remind the Foreign Ministry, that response practice had previously worked very well, and these parliamentary questions were once a little bit more routine, sometimes more concrete, but not to mention my question. So, it's been a few days, and I still haven't heard, and I'm letting maybe I missed something, I haven't heard what the Ministry of Official Affairs has done, the Foreign Ministry has done, and I haven't seen that there's been an address and an official apology to Serbia. So, what the Montenegrin Foreign Ministry will do to its official, it is their business, but I am interested in what the Montenegrin state will do to the state of Serbia and whether there is a need for some gesture of apology. What is more important about this, I would like to remind myself of the case, already slightly forgotten, but still quite dramatic, four Serbian intellectuals headed by Mr. Bećkovic, counterpart Mirovic, Antic, Rakovic, therefore banned from joining Montenegro. So, four intellectuals who have more or less a critical attitude towards the government of Montenegro are forbidden to enter the state of Montenegro and I really, really want to see what our foreign ministry has done with this, and is there perhaps considered to be a need for an adequate or analogue move, or at least for energetic intervention and march in this regard? I think it's an absolute scandal that, not criminals, not people who are suspicious, I don't know, past or believed to be able to act terroristly towards anyone, but serious Serbian intellectuals are denied the possibility of staying and entering Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55678	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55679	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, today I would like to use my right to Article 287. The Rules of Procedure asked several questions, first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. As a folk MP from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, we are alive interested in the course and outcome of the talks between Belgrade and Pristina, which takes place with the intervention of the International Community, which has the foundations in Resolution 1244 and the Brussels Agreement. So, mediators in solving the problem that culminated 20 years ago with NATO aggression on Serbia today are both the EU and the UN, which have also brought Resolution 1244, I know that our diplomacy and our state summit all struggle to keep Serbia on its own, to preserve state sovereignty, and at the same time to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. As a successful diplomatic activity, I would like to point out the appearance of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, at the last session of the UN Security Council, when he submitted a report on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the functioning of international forces, when he, above all, called the right names, defended Serbia and fully opened to all representatives of the International Community, pointed to the unfounded demands and resources that Pristina serves to convince the world that Kosovo and Metohija belong to them alone. It is inadmissible that at the same meeting of the Security Council, Fjore Ceku, to gain independence so-called "independence". Kosovo calls decolonisation, not secession, which is essentially a process Pristina advocates and leads with the help of some major forces and some permanent members of the Security Council. I wonder what decolonization this is about? Who's the colonizer here? Serbs have lived in these areas for a tenth century, which has been witnessed by hundreds of Orthodox saints, monasteries and churches since the 10th and later centuries. For example, the Church of St. Nicholas in the Great Cavalry. I want this opportunity to give full support to the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and diplomatic activities and selfless work and the pawning of Minister Dacic, who has initiated the procedure of withdrawing the recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, which has so far been officially done by 13 EU member states. Minister Dacic announced that this process will continue in the future. In this regard, I would like to ask – what are the diplomatic measures and activities of state leadership and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planning in the coming period? Because things will not be met in Paris because Pristina does not accept such a format because it relies on world mentors and sponsors, especially on America by ignoring Germany and France as representatives of the EU. The measures are still planned to show in the Council that Serbia is not looking for anything other than its own, but is defending its own and that the more countries withdraw recognition, and the international community is beginning to apply international law and the same standards for all members of the International Community and has stopped leading the policy of double arches, which, unfortunately, has become an almost regular means of demonstration and power of some major countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55680	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55681	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is the world day of refugees, that is to say, for who knows which time we are reminded of the tragic fact that the Serbian people experienced brutal ethnic cleansing, systematic destruction, kidnapping and looting of their mobile and immovable property, kidnapping of acquired status rights, numerous and unremembered crimes in the area of the former Yugoslavia at the end of 1990, the 20th century. Over a million and 200,000 Serbs and other citizens were expelled from the former Yugoslavia, 500,000 from Croatia, over 500,000 from the Federation of BiH and over 220,000 Serbs and other Albanians from the KIM area. For these reasons, our association of Serbs from the region has made one record of the kidnapped, destroyed and other assets of the exiled Serbs and other cleansed citizens from today's Croatia, BiH and Slovenia. A total of 10,322 families, or over 30,000 damaged citizens, filled out the registration form. With more than a million Serbs expelled from the area of today's Croatia and BiH. This information can be considered a very representative survey. After the completed form, a report was made with very precise data on the systematic destruction and kidnapping of mobile and immovable property, kidnapping of acquired rights such as unpaid pensions, Dinar's foreign savings, non-recognition of employment, securities of value, question of inadequately renewed assets. The Alliance of Serbs from the region plans to send the report soon to all relevant international organisations -- the UN, the EU, the European Security and Co-operation Conference, the Council of Europe and the world's leading states. We place particular emphasis on the EU, i.e. European institutions, the European Parliament, the Council of Foreign Ministers, the European Council and the European Commission. We will try everything in our power to through this report and to send this report we ask that European institutions open a fundamental dialogue with Zagreb, Sarajevo and Ljubljana on finding a fair and lasting solution to a number of property, bankruptcy and other problems of our people. I do not think it is possible to talk about lasting peace and stability, that it is not possible to talk about mutual respect and respect if we have hundreds of thousands of citizens who cannot achieve their fundamental human rights as the fundamental value of the EU. Another important issue is the problem of resolving tens of thousands of expelled Serbs living in Serbia. It is known that our country, or the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, is implementing a regional housing programme. I have spoken to the public several times, and I want to repeat now, I believe that the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration and other competent institutions must be far faster, more efficient and more quality to implement this programme, i.e. that the exiled Serbs resolve the key issue of integration, the issue of housing, whether through apartments, installation houses, the assignment of construction material or by buying rural properties, it doesn't matter. What is very important and what I insist on is that after the completion of this regional housing programme there should be no refugee family left, no exiled Serb who has not resolved his housing issue. That is why it is important and I am asking the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration to do everything possible to address the housing issues of all refugee families within as short a time period as possible. These are people who have lived as tenants for over 25 years and deserve to solve this key issue. I also urge the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia to assist in the distribution of this report concerning the registration of kidnapped, destroyed property, expelled Serbs and other damaged citizens to all relevant international addresses and organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55682	Thank you, colleague Linta. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups and the president? Yeah. ) The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question is about the protest of underage students, minors. Who will be responsible for the abuse, the obvious political abuse of children? I think responsibility should be shared not only by organizers, but by parents. The second is whether it's true that the state in the Commercial Bank has less than 42% of the ownership, since we've heard here that the state is the owner of the entire Commercial Bank, which is one of the notorious untruths, and nothing surprises me of these jilasians who are present here. Next my question concerns REM, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. You are all witnessing that the last two matches of Serbia's football team have been transmitted on cable channels, that it is about channels that are so-called. Cross-border channels, which is another kind of violation. In Article 64. The law on electronic media, the most important events whose list exists in REM, can only be broadcast by televisions that have free access and cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia. Cable channels Sports Club, fake cross-border channels, pirate channels and new so-called "S", which is also a fake cross-border channel, are channels controlled by United Media, which included N1 television, have illegally broadcast football matches and thus deprived all other citizens of the territory of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of their right to follow the football team and qualifications for the European Championship. Article 64, but also a member of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Transboundary Television, which also states in its Article 9, that the most important events can only be broadcast by televisions covering the whole market. The list of most important events formed under the law says -- a list of the most important events of the match, the semifinal and final World and European football championships, the matches of the Serbian national team and the qualifying matches for the football team, such broadcasts can be performed only by television covering the whole market, and these are channels with national frequencies, which also have free access. So anyone can access those channels. In this way, the SBB knows for who knows which way it breaks the rules, with the silent permission of REM, and it has to get in the way, because that's how they can buy rights, but they can't broadcast them. Thus, subscribers are being blackmailed that they have to enter the SBB network and in such a way they re-income from the subscription, and further from commercials that are unauthorized on these false cross-border televisions, in fact, pirate televisions. The revenues made by Solak, Gilas, United Media, United Group and SBB are measured by hundreds of millions of euros, which are thus made through cross-border channels. So my question is clear – what will REM do about it? In accordance with Article 100. REM needs to take care of logical order, channel numeration, which is also not the case, because two cross-border channels are fake on number one and two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55684	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We'll continue to work in two, three minutes, just to reset the system once more. Thank you for your patience. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Čotric, Jelena Vujic Obradovic and Milena Ćorilić. We are moving on to a unique search of the 3rd item of the agenda – DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK REPORT FOR 2018. Year, which was submitted by the Competition Protection Committee (No 02-338/19 of 28 February 2019), with a proposal for a COOPERATION DECISION, REGIONAL Development, TRADE, TURISM AND ENERGETICS OF 27. MARTA 2019 YEAR According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Dr Miloje Obradović, President of the Competition Protection Commission, Cedomir Radojčić, Member of the Commission Council, Mirjana Misković Vukasinović, Member of the Commission Council, Dr Veljko Milutinović, Member of the Commission Council, Gordana Lukić, Head of the Conference Research Sector, Jelena Mladenovic, Head of the Competition Injuring Sector, Gordana Bulatović, Head of the Competition Protection and International Co-operation Sector, Miroslav Djosic, Head of the Legal Affairs Sector, Siniša Milosevic, Head of the Sector for Economic Analysis and Milica Stanković, Head of the Sector for Law, Staff and General Affairs. I welcome you to the High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Articles 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the 2018 Work Report, which was submitted by the Competition Protection Commission, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy from 27 March 2019. Do the proposing representatives, Dr Miloje Obradovic, president of the Commission for Competition Protection and National MP Snezana Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55685	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, chairing today's session, honourable and respected Members of Parliament, I have an extraordinary honour and pleasure to welcome you on behalf of the Commission, on behalf of the members of the Council and my personal name. It's a great pleasure to be here today and a great honor. Report on the work of the Competition Commission, we submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 20. The law on competition protection, which clearly states that the Commission is responsible for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that the Commission for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Serbia, in line with the above, is obliged to submit a report by the end of February of the current year for the previous year. What I want to tell you is that the law also regulates the Commission's jurisdiction. Article 21 The law on the protection of competition regulates the jurisdiction, i.e. the entrusted tasks that the Commission is doing on behalf of the State of the Republic of Serbia, what you have authorized us and what you have given us as a task, as our mission and our commitment. What should also be pointed out is that Article 22 has been regulated by the Commission's authorities. These are the Council and the President of the Commission. I, as chairman of the Council, have the right to one vote as well as all members of the Council. In addition to the Council and the President of the Commission, we also have a professional service that performs professional tasks and they have the status of authorised officials, except for the logistics sector that supports those sectors. What I would say before I go into detail in 2018 on the Work Report, I must stress that the protection of competition is an important segment of the country's economic and economic system. I am pleased, I have listened and constantly listen to the transmissions of the National Assembly, when it comes to the economy and the economy of a country, to talk about the standard of living of citizens, and you as MPs, elected by the people, have empowered us and given us the task of taking care of the citizens' standard of living, and therefore, the first member of the Law on the Protection of Competition says – economic progress, the welfare of society and the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to say is, there is no 2018 without previous years. The Commission was founded in 2005 by law, in 2006 it started to work. In 2014, you gave the mandate to the members of the Council and to me as president to do something for this country, for this country, for this people and to prove, as a national MP yesterday said, to prove the role and importance of our existence. I think we're doing it, and I think we're working on it. If we had made a good result, we do not say that, I have submitted the report on work in accordance with the law to the European Commission, which appreciated our report and on June 5th, I myself was to defend it and the Competition Protection Commission is among the best commissions in Europe. So, not in the Western Balkans, that's not the question. In the Western Balkans, we are the best, both Croatia and Slovenia have recognised that they are members of EU countries. We are among the best commissions in Europe. We are co-operated with the strongest, largest institutions such as the Federal Anti-Monopolitan Service of the Russian Federation. I personally had the honor of speaking to the 25-year existence of the Federal Anti-Monopolitan Service in 2015. These days we plan to co-operate, or sign a memorandum of co-operation with the Chinese Commission, which is one, I suppose, strong and powerful institution. The Chinese Commission wants us to train their people for five days and it will be in the commission building in July. What I want to point out is that it is co-operation with other European and world commissions such as Japan, Korea, Germany, French, Austria. About countries in the region not to talk. You have seen that we are somewhere planned for the leader of the Western Balkans and I am pleased that we can be proud of that and you as the MPs who have chosen us and placed us in this place, you have given us this mandate and thank you for the confidence you have shown us. To go back to what we found on the board. In 2014 on 1 November, or 29 October, but I like to say on 1 November, we had an institution that did not have adequate institutional capacities. We didn't have a business space adequate, we didn't use the law to the full, we didn't do the best of insight, we didn't do the Lineans or the Repenting Program, we didn't do much. We had the equipment, we didn't use it. In 2017, the Commission received a report from the European Commission that there are no obstacles to opening chapters regarding the Competition Protection Commission, and my performance is confident, and, you know, I never say we're bad. We're the best and the best there is. We have good professional people in the Republic of Serbia and I think we should always talk about being the best. I think you'll agree with me, we're among the best. My colleague was in Switzerland who has eight million inhabitants, let me tell you, we have more activity, more cases than a Swiss commission that has about 70 employees. What this report characterises is that we continued and started active cooperation with you. First of all, with committees of resolute, including you MPs, co-operation that arises from our legal obligation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with other regulators. We've continued, or we've improved communication. The commission was independent, but by closing itself, and no one was allowed to call anyone, no one to whom he answered, and there was no communication. What is important is how we do now, we respect the public interest, we respect the interest of the Republic of Serbia and all our decisions must be in line with the public interest, in accordance with the law and economic logic and sound business logic. What I would like to say, which is, the World Bank did a single analysis a while ago, signed with the Government of the Republic of Serbia a protocol on co-operation for the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia, and this analysis says that the protection of competition is one of the important segments of one country's economic progress, i.e. the Republic of Serbia. She recognised the commission, said that competition policy should play an active and active role in the country's growth and development and economic progress. What I would also say is that competition policy is not just about us, it deals with the state through various ministries, regulatory bodies and organs. Therefore, we are one of the factors in politics. As far as law enforcement is concerned, we are the only ones applying the law and fully applying it. I repeat again, the Brussels grade, so if we measure from Brussels, but we're here to be evaluated by you, to criticize us, to tell us both the bad and the good. In any case, we will appreciate everything, if we have the opportunity to do it, in the best interests of this country. What would I like to say? This report permeates the Commission's activities in various fields, from injury to competition, to punishment, from those injuries that arise, which go into the Republic of Serbia's budget, are not the Commission's revenues, but Serbia's budgets, to procedural foames. So it is also shown through an analysis of the attitude of state authorities, businesses and citizens towards the Republic of Serbia. The increased number of initiatives, the increased number of correspondence, the Commission's address, evidence that the Commission has authority and that people and market participants and natural persons respect and respect the Commission's work. As for the way in which the Commission is financed and financed, the Commission does not benefit from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Commission is financed from taxis on solutions issued, primarily by concentration, and that is 98% of revenue. What I would like to say, as far as surpluses are concerned, part of the surplus is transferred to the Republic of Serbia's budget, part remains for the reserve. The reserve is located in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia and as regards 2018, the surplus is 243 million comas something, 140 of which goes into the budget and 103 million goes into reserve. The commission has a reserve and it amounts to about 625 million dinars, standing in the vault, the reserve is not used. It is intended for the Commission's difficult funding and given the so-called reserve, my proposal is to solve, with your help, the state's help, the long-term business space, but not only for the Commission, but also that we can use that money to solve other institutions' space, such as the DRI, the Anti-Corruption Agency and other institutions. I'm proposing to start a conversation and solve this problem one-bravely. As far as the Commission's business is concerned, the Commission's business is not compromised, there is a reserve. The funds of the reserve are serious and the Commission has no problem financing its activities. As for the level of expenditure, you saw, the highest level of expenditure relates to employee earnings. Other activities related to the work of the Commission are activities related to the EU accession process. We are included in Chapter 8, as our parent chapter, here is Chapter 5, Chapter 23, Chapter 10, Chapter 14 and Chapter 15. As regards the European Commission and Chapter 8, the Competition Protection Commission is an institution that has no criteria and I would no longer explain it. As regards concentration activities, you have seen that the concentrations were in increased numbers this year, which is evidence that, above all, market participants' attitude towards the Commission, that they report their concentrations and that they have increased economic activities, as regards business activities. However, most of these concentrations come from abroad, such as Germany, the 24 U.S., the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Cyprus, France and participation in the number-by-number concentrations, the most happening in the areas of telecommunications, the pharmaceutical sector and the food sector. I'm sorry, I'm talking faster so I can try to cross over, not take up too much of your time, if you need to slow down, I'll... (President: Only however you wish, no problem. ( ) As for the structure of the applicant, there are still 131 legal entities, 40 domestics. The relationship will certainly change over time, that domestic companies will strengthen and have more opportunities for growth and development and greater financial strength, but currently it is the domination of foreign companies. Opinions on regulations and laws are one of the competences of the Commission. We're giving opinions on laws and regulations, and that was a total of about 70 last year. It is necessary to work on this, to make it easier for you when you make a decision, to rationally review the proposals of laws and regulations, since we give the legislators opinions on laws and regulations. A lot of people are talking to us. We've raised that level. But in order to help you, as someone who is a legislative authority, who makes laws, adopts, proposes, helps you, and we have helped the Committee of Resolutions, many opinions and interpretations, and I remain at my disposal always. I'm always ready to talk. The Commission's door is open. I also invited the board to come, the Committee of Commerce, to visit the Commission. Still that call remains, to visit, to see how it is done, what it means from my point of view, an independent institution, a public interest. I've got that attitude, and this time I'm taking it out. I was working on, to explain to people, in the Commission when I came, what independence is and how it is observed. It's not independent of not answering anyone, it's independent of doing your job professionally, normally, you make decisions of public interest, and as I like to say, you make decisions according to your conscience, normally, according to your profession. What is also important, what the European Commission resented, or did not exist, is the sector of economic analysis or the economic sector for economic analysis. We have good results. We've finally started to work on the retail sector and analyze the retail market. That was bad, why the Commission did not have an analysis of the retail sector, because the retail sector participates in citizens' living standards most. We all go shopping in retail, in retail facilities, food and drink, first of all, we spend the most money on it. The Commission has carried out a sectoral analysis of 2014, 2015 and 2016 for 2017 and 2018. There's also cement. You'll see, cement analysis says a lot. It is said that the level of cement consumption has increased since 2014. It's proof that something's going to work and that as soon as the consumption level is higher, because the cement is characteristic, it's hard to import, we've done a good analysis and I'm satisfied with that analysis. We've also done a sector of analysis of baby equipment, a significant sector, we have 170 parties in one procedure. So, against 170 companies, a procedure has been initiated thanks to this sector's analysis of baby equipment. As for other Commission activities, I must say that the Commission has done everything in its jurisdiction, normally, optimally. So everything isn't ideal, where I'm sorry? Maybe we couldn't and we didn't have time to do everything. There were few people when I came, there were small Commission capacities. You've authorized us to receive some people. We had this good choice of personnel structure, we perfected the organisational structure. This is a hierarchical organization and it works that way and it should work that way. Decision-making is collective, i.e. most votes are decided. But what we might have done more, that's – we haven't done much in public enterprises. Public enterprises don't know this area, they make a lot of mistakes, and we didn't make it, maybe we should, here, have a good example. We had a meeting yesterday from the Russian Chamber of Commerce. People came through the embassy asking for a meeting and asking the Russian Chamber of Commerce to set up a meeting, a seminar, where people would talk to me about the jobs of protecting competition. Why? Because of companies coming from Russia. Here, we do that to the Chinese in July. So that's where we did worse than we could. But we didn't have the capacity. People really do. It's a huge job. It's a tough job. It requires specific knowledge and rights and economies. I didn't touch the courts. I wouldn't comment on that part, except working on court training, with the Justice Academy. Judges don't understand this area, which is normal. This is a new area, new law, who's a lawyer, there's a lot of lawyers here I know, a lot of MPs, I've been in the state administration for a long time since 1995, so a lot of people know. This is complicated and the right to protect competition is specific. The judges sometimes do not understand, so they say, we prove economically that something has been set up, and the judge says, "Well, it is normal for the client to communicate with the offerer." Well, it's not normal, but good. Anyway, we need to work on it, and the state needs to work on it. We help, we find EU projects to pay for court training. But I hope we have more success. It doesn't depend much on us, but we're helping. I'm saying, it's specifically right. I know a lot of lawyers here, and I've also done a lot of skill, even though I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist, but as a court expert, I'm easier to handle in this area. So that I don't hold back too much, what I'd like to say in the end, I thank you for your confidence and for your support. No matter what, if there were no trust and support and cooperation with you, the co-operation that exists in the law and with other institutions, we opened the door, we wouldn't have done what we have. Be proud, I tell you, when you talk to others about this institution, feel free to be proud and confident. Everything else, here, I'm at my disposal and I'll read what I quoted. Our goal is to create a competitive market where participants will increase their productivity, innovation, investment and will result in growth and development and increased lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Once again I repeat our task, our goal, is our obligation to point out to you and show that we are working for the benefit of this society and these citizens. I hope that's what we're doing, and that's what we're doing. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55686	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we continue to work, for technical reasons we will have to take a break of 15 minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, since technical shortcomings have been removed, we have conditions to work and we continue to work. The floor is represented by the National MP Snezana B. Petrovic, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Here you go, colleague Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55688	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President of the Council of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the Commission with a team of staff, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed citizens, according to the established agenda today we are considering item 3. Reports on the work of the Competition Protection Commission for 2018 and, in that sense, in front of the Committee, I would like to inform you of the following. So again, you heard Mr. Obradovic, but in this part, it is my duty to mention that, on the basis of Article 20. The Competition Protection Act, the Competition Protection Commission, submitted to the Assembly the Annual Work Report by the end of February of the current year for the previous year, and in agreement with that legislative provision, the Commission acted and submitted that report on 28 February 2019, and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy at its session held on 27 March 2019 discussed the Commission's work on the protection of competition for 2018 and, in accordance with Article 237(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set out a proposal for a conclusion that was submitted with the report to the National Assembly. The National Assembly is elected by the chairman of the committee and members of the Council of Commissions, and the election begins with a public competition advertised by the president of the National Assembly. The Commission's mandate is decorated in the consistent implementation of the Competition Protection Act, and implies a high degree of autonomy compared to other branches of government, especially in relation to the executive power. This autonomy implies personal independence relating to choice, conditions and procedures, appointment and resolution of officials who lead the Commission. The solution applied in this part in the Republic of Serbia is one of the best practices regulated by law. The Commission shall respond to the National Assembly for its work. The area of competition protection in the Republic of Serbia is governed by law in order to make economic progress and the well-being of society, especially for the benefit of consumers, by creating the best fair conditions for the competition of all economic players in Serbia. In addition to the law, the area of competition protection has been regulated by a series of regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Commission also has an obligation to comply with Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall apply the criteria resulting from the rules governing competition in the EU market accordingly. The submission of the annual work report has high value, especially as the National Assembly and the Committee safeguard, cultivate and oversee the independence of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. In that sense, the Annual Work Report for 2018, which was submitted by the Commission, as you have learned from Mr Obradovic, contains information on administrative capacities, the Financial Business Report, information on the Commission's activities in the EU accession process, information on competition violations, concentration studies, opinions given on draft laws, acts, sectoral analyses, co-operation with regulatory bodies, state bodies, organisations, scientific institutions and the civil sector, information on international co-operation, then information on raising awareness and the importance of competition through public representation and statistical, of course, an overview of activities during 2018. From everything I want to point out, and I think it's actually the most important thing, the Commission is funding from its own incomes, a taxi, keeping a mandatory reserve, as you've heard, at the National Bank. The surplus is regularly paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the Commission's financial plan is given by the government. You have heard from Mr Obradovic, he said in the report, about the activities for Chapter 8, which will follow. You also heard that the Commission's administrative and institutional capacity is at an envious level and that mild organic growth is observed, thanks to the National Assembly and its working bodies, whose decisions have made it possible. Finding an adequate business space, as you said, Mr. Obradovic, the Commission has acquired all the conditions for uninterrupted work. You've been talking about increased levels of concentration, and here we'll agree that increased concentrations are a signal that economic activity is increased, that it's an attractive economic economic system and that there are developments and developments in the high-intensity market. In the part of the monopoly, I have to say the following is that monopolies exist, there are natural monopolies, the monopolies are not prohibited. The abuse of a monopoly position is forbidden, and that is what I ask you to take care of. I believe that even greater danger than monopolys are agreements on prices and cartels as well as agreements for participation in tenders for public procurement that are only revealed in insights. It's of paramount importance to our country. I understand your previous priorities, but we expect it to be your tasks and priorities in the future. We have seen, therefore, that the reasons for the items contained in the Commission's Work Report are, in fact, they contain a serious economic analysis of the market, and that is what you have stated. Also, I must point out that the law provides for harsh criminal measures and high fines, but their main role is to deter market participants from breaking the law, and you as the Commission are obliged to apply them consistently, and in that sense you are expected to continue in the same way and even more effectively and thank you for this effort and for your actions. What's interesting about this? So foreign companies and they come from other markets with more experience in market behaviour. That's why domestic companies have to adapt and educate as much as possible. The concentration actually encourages companies to improve their products and reduce costs, leading to increased productivity and innovation, and provides consumers with a wider range of products at affordable prices. This is a process of permanent competition among companies and can play a significant role in encouraging Serbia's economic growth and, in this sense, must be done, I see the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the ministry and you must make an additional effort to explain both to state and private domestic companies how to behave on the market, in fact, what abuse of position is and that it is subject to severe sanctions. As regards the institutional framework, the Competition Protection Commission is the main institution responsible for law enforcement, it is an operational independent body and it is important that the Commission has a uniform practice and predictability in its conduct, thus ensuring legal certainty for all market players. Also, I would like to say that the new Competition Protection Act is in the works and that its finalisation is expected, that is, by debate and then by adoption. In terms of human resources, I must point out that more doctors of science, magistrates and economists and lawyers are working in the Commission, but the largest number of professionals are responsible for examining and conducting procedures and as regards these studies and carrying out investigations, we are witnesses to increase the number of cases of injury to competition, as well as the relative size and importance of companies under investigation. Research by large private and public enterprises, carried out by the Competition Protection Commission, has further contributed to improving its credibility and public image and in this respect is increasing activities in promoting competition policy. A specific segment of the Commission's opinion on competition protection is given to legal and sublegislative acts, which the Commission prepares in co-operation with state authorities and organisations in regulatory bodies and independent institutions. For example, the Commission has given three opinions on draft laws in the field of stamps, road transport of passengers and free access to information. Generally speaking, the Competition Protection Commission should be consulted on all draft laws concerning competition. Courts of appeals provide increasing support for the Commission's decisions to protect competition. However, the capacity of courts and capacity to deal with complex competition cases should be significantly strengthened by increasing the number of judges with expertise in this area and I expect that this will be taken into account in the coming period and that this issue will be resolved quickly. The Commission's report makes it clear that the main objective is to create a competitive market where participants will increase their productivity, innovation, investment, resulting in growth, development and an increase in the standard of living of all citizens. The Committee found that the Commission for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Serbia managed to contribute significantly to the increase in the largest number of economic parameters and progress recorded by the Republic of Serbia in all fields, from the World Bank to the IMF, to the World Economic Forum. The Commission's activities in harmonising the rules, developing economic analyses and applying economic models in proof and decision-making in procedures, timely response to situations that may affect the state of competition on the market, more transparent presence and timely public knowledge of its activities, have gained great reputation both in domestic and international professional public. Experiences so far show that the Commission for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Serbia is a good example of the functioning of an independent institution that is transparent in its activities, which means subject to both assessment and control of both citizens and the public. The fact that our country is defined for the market economy and modern economic policy, the development of competition protection policy is another important pillar of economic reform. The developments in our market suggest that work to protect competition must be constant, and the creation and protection of fair market conditions must be improved. That there is room for promotion, it is seen from the Consumer Protection Association report, especially when it comes to quality and prices, product range and services on the domestic market. According to statistics on price developments in the last 10 years, we have a segment of products and services whose prices are falling, which are indicators of healthy competition that led to relative population standards rise, i.e. the growth of purchasing power in Serbia, and we encourage the Commission to continue its activities in this direction in order to reduce prices in other segments, and this especially after the adoption of a new law. We encourage the Commission to continue working tirelessly to improve competition and create conditions for a fair competition match with uncompromising cartel fighting, abuse of dominant position and all other forms of injury to competition. The Competition Protection Commission can be sure that there is a partner in the National Assembly who will support it in activities that contribute to raising the level of knowledge and understanding of the importance of competition, rights and competition protection policy. In addition, the Committee shall be at the disposal of the Commission when it comes to activities to improve co-operation and complementar action with all other relevant institutions in the State and the business organisations of civil society, as well as with the academic community. On this occasion, I want to publicly thank you for your invitation. On behalf of the Committee, we accept the invitation, and as soon as we are in the next shorter period, we will be your guests. Thank you for calling. Finally, the special honor for all of us, as you have heard from Mr Obradovic, and it is my duty and duty, and the honor to repeat this, the European Commission has agreed to be the Regional Competition Protection Centre for the Western Balkans, which includes two EU members, Croatia and Slovenia, and we can be satisfied with the European Commission's assessment of the progress report for 2018, that the legislative framework, as well as the action in the field of competition protection policy, is largely consistent with legal assets, but also with EU practice. Once again, I would like to congratulate the President of the Commission on the successes so far and to point out that in the Committee and the National Assembly, there will always be a reliable partner, ready to provide any necessary support to the Commission in its efforts to influence, through high expertise, transparent work, its actions, the creation of a more positive economic environment in which there is room for all serious, valuable and efficient businessmen and investors. That is why I would like to invite you to adopt a Report on Competition Protection for 2018 and to continue to build this institution in a segment of our competences with common forces in a way that will provide even fairer conditions on the market of the Republic of Serbia and a better life and standard for all citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55689	I thank my colleague Petrovic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go, colleague Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55690	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have today's report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission. First of all, I want to commend him and say that he is very thorough, comprehensive. In today's free market system, as you said, Mr. Obradovic, there is much about law enforcement to increase the economic efficiency of economic operators, to encourage innovation, as well as to establish a level playing field when we talk about a competition, and thus improves the quality of life of Serbian citizens, which is why we are all here. First of all, I would like to stress that your Commission is very young in relation to countries in the region and it only operates for 13 years, and I would especially like to commend your team which has been working since 2014, because it is really a great result. You are professionally accessing the selection of personnel, which is one of the most important segments for me, because so many professional and educated people are on your team and the result cannot be missed. This, of course, puts an extra accent on started and completed items, which we know that management is often a problem. We often start certain processes, but we don't finish them on time. I must also point out that years ago the European Commission has been giving positive reports on your work, so it is also commendable when we talk about open chapters. Since long ago, from 1800 and some years ago, it has been known that there has to be a certain way, in which it will be done, to say the regulation of monopoly on the market. At that time, merchants were selling cattle, so they were not allowed to find other people's cattle, and it seems that for years back we have unfair competition on the market and certain monopolies agreements that are simply inadmissible. In recent years, we have seen a major shift when we talk about competition in the market and regulation and use and the setting up of measures through a law that has been passed, so what can I say, just continue that way and we will certainly do better. We're here for you, whatever it takes, and we support your work. The report for the past two years contains key elements for the work of institutions. The administrative and institutional capacities have been increased, you are focused on effective and effective law enforcement, which is indeed commendable, and as you said by 2014 unfortunately this was not exactly how it was done. Serbia has become an attractive economic environment and we can see that when we talk about factories that have been opened in recent years. The data I received that 52 factories were opened and employs more than 28,000 people has a significant impact on this coming new investors who will invest to further reduce the unemployment already in a major decline. In the last two years, regulations have also been harmonised when we talk about European rules and when we talk about an important negotiating chapter 8. In addition to the legal frameworks, I would like to commend, above all, your urgency when we talk about informing the public about your activities, which are being thrown on your site daily, on the Internet presentation. This is something that is necessary because the transparency of state authorities and public authorities is really important because of citizens' interests, to know where money is spent. No matter how self-financed you are and not financed from the budget, citizens feel safer when they know that any institution, which has been regulated or elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is working in a transparent and legal manner. For this reason I want to support your work, we want to support as a parliamentary group of Socialist Movements your report and certainly say that if you continue in the coming period to do so that there will certainly be no economic growth and improvement in the situation of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55691	I thank my colleague Karadzic. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55692	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, gentlemen of the Parliaments, in today's debate, we will analyse the report of a new body, which exists several years ago in our country, the Competition Protection Commission, for 2018. The Commission is to recall the establishment of the 2005 Competition Protection Act. It began working in 2006 after the Council of Commissions convened. At the beginning of its engagement, as we heard from the opening presentation, there were insufficient incentives and sufficient conditions for this commission to show its real results immediately. In the first period, the greatest effort was directed towards institutional body building, ensuring greater visibility, affirming the objectives of combating market abuse, i.e. the implementation of competition protection policies for the benefit of the entire society, and these are the results that were achieved right in your mandate. The Commission has also worked intensively during this period to achieve full legal certainty for market participants when it comes to competition protection policy. This body in our country is, as I said, a new institution, and it was actually founded on the basis of a law that was passed here in the Republic Parliament with the aim of just regulating the basic rules of conduct, both large and small producers on the market, for the benefit of all consumers and all citizens. In the EU accession process, competition protection policy is one of the more important places, as its effective implementation contributes to improving the economy, development and growth of the number of companies, improving investment in research and development of new products, attracting new investments, increasing production and exports. The harmonisation of competition rules with the practice of European courts and the European Commission provides legal certainty for all market participants and the security of long-term business planning in the Member State with the knowledge that their capital is protected from the prohibited influence of dominant market participants, commercial cartels or illicit merger of companies with the aim of controlling or pushing other market participants. At the same time, EU membership includes certain obligations for countries preparing for life in the community of European peoples. The competition rules are part of the negotiating Chapter 8 on EU accession, and this is known and takes up one of the most important places and that position itself, and it is the only place that the EU is showing attention to this sector, as well as the attention that our country needs to build even further in the coming period. Its effective implementation in fact contributes to the improvement of the economy, the development and growth of the number of companies, the improvement of investment in research and the development of new products, attracting new investments, increasing production and exports. The aim of the Serbian state is, in any case, the primary, and this is the task of this government and this Parliament and all the MPs, the creation of better economic conditions, strengthening the economic strength of the state, but also the economic strengths and powers of every family and all citizens. The harmonisation of competition rules with the practice of European courts and the European Commission provides legal certainty for all market participants and the security of long-term business planning in the Member State, as it is known that the capital invested is protected from the prohibited influence of dominant participants. We have heard that dominant influences exist, but must never be abused and done to harm other market participants. Therefore, with a view to enabling smaller market participants to compete and be present on the market in a level playing field and not to be allowed to push them out of the market on the basis of monopoly impact. EU membership, and we must point out, is not just an advantage. It also implies certain obligations of each member to its European partners and on a continuous basis. The competition rules apply to all participants of the competition equally, and the task is to enable the functioning of the market, a higher supply of goods and services, better prices. In fact, these rules protect citizens, as entrepreneurs are forbidden to enter into agreements to negotiate prices, limit production, development and investment or share markets and sources and purchases. It also prevents the abuse of the dominant position of businesses and prevents the merger of companies that could have an impact on competition in the market. In this direction, in the case of certain phenomena on the market, we must be far more effective in the next period. Also, these rules determine how and how much State aid can be given to companies, provided that competition is not violated, i.e. providing equally good conditions for all. The aim of the competition policy in our country involves economic progress, strengthening economic operators, opening a competition, better product quality, lower prices, as the whole miles of effects certainly go to the general benefit. Competition as an open process of business fighting between companies plays a very important role in fostering the growth and development economy, but if the ultimate goal is to benefit the consumer, then the level of economic growth directly becomes a criterion for protecting competition. Business activities which are found to distort the benefit of the consumer or are estimated to occur are considered anti-competitive or illegal. Definitely, competition encourages companies to improve the quality of their products, to reduce costs, to increase productivity and innovation, and in general contributes to the development of an economic environment and to achieve faster economic growth, which is the full goal and commitment of this government. This can certainly be found in Serbia's dynamic development. On the other hand, these consumer rules provide a better range of products, lower prices, higher quality. Certainly, not to be confused, the Commission's task is not to protect small market participants, but to enable equal conditions for all. Greater competition helps small producers to do better. The effective application of the protection rules is an important condition for the development and strengthening of the Serbian economy in general. This huge role is precisely played by this Commission, precisely through the regular submission of work reports in the National Assembly, as is evident in this case, by publishing its work results on the website, which is, otherwise, by presenting its activities in the media that are then available to the general public and, in any case, very important and commendable. This commission, as shown in the Report, achieved successful co-operation with both the professional and the general public during 2018. This largely eliminates legal uncertainty in companies, but also stabilised position and uncertainty in a number of companies. As a result, businesses in Serbia can assess in advance what is forbidden, what has a serious effect on deterring activities that can threaten competition and in which direction they should direct their actions. That is why I find it very important that this Commission is established in us, which achieves finally positive effects, which has been established on our market, but at the same time in collaboration with co-workers, or relevant institutions in the EU, and not because of the EU and our accession to it, but primarily because of ourselves and citizens who need to have as much protection and a legally organised state as possible. It is important to point out that, according to the EU's own assessment, which is also confirmed by your Report and your opening statement, Mr President, there has been an increase in implementation in Serbia in the application of competition rights in the number of cases covered by this area, as well as in the relative size and importance of the companies being investigated. For example, one part of the report even says: the examination of large private companies and state-owned enterprises by the Commission has greatly contributed to improving quality, credibility and public image. Also, competitive policy representation activities have been noticeably increased. The Commission’s decision is increasingly supported by the Court of Appeals, but it is clear that the capacity of the judiciary to deal with complex cases in the field of competition protection should be significantly strengthened. It is also an assessment, but of course the direction in which this institution and the institutions connected with it need to develop further. Of course, that's another topic. In any case, we support the work of this Commission. The Socialist Party of Serbia in the voting day will support the report. We consider it very important for both economic operators and citizens who receive or all of us together, we get better products and a more regulated market. Of course, what we have said so far absolutely support, which is that special attention is paid to the most sensitive sectors of telecommunications, pharmaceutical production, the situation in the retail area, we are most sensitive, we want to quickly and quickly to see positive effects and, of course, the appropriate transparency of work in public enterprises. The courts, I said, are a special decision, but in one future, we hope as quickly as possible and as best as possible to strengthen Serbia's economic strength. The links of all these institutions that need to act on the market complementally, we will get everything that provides us with a better quality of life and equality of all entities, the development of a small economy, and the arrival of new investors. So, we haven't achieved our ultimate goals, but we are on the best track to show that quality in every future report as best and as great as possible from you and the Commission, of course, I think we all expect it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55693	Thank you, colleague Dragash. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are attending a bit of an absurd situation, discussing the protection of competition when we are all aware that Serbia is at least an independent technological, financial and political one. What instruments can we use to prevent the monopoly behaviour of those present on the Serbian market? To prevent those who have formed the EU for the sake of our interests? Remember, gentlemen, the EU, the community of European countries, was formed by the coal and steel producers. They remain in countries called England, Germany and France. Now, to be absurd, we need to find, as a country that has seven million inhabitants, to find effective funds to prevent multinational companies from establishing a monopoly on Serbia's market. It's almost an impossible mission. Without the help and frontal struggles to revive domestic production, to potentiate domestic minds, to say the least, these are all periodic reports that we can observe in one way or another. We can appreciate the efforts of the people who make up this Commission, who are earnestly trying to help with their expertise, help us to see in some way where the main problems are, but Parliament is here to analyse this report in the end, to make it known whether it accepts or does not accept and nothing more. The key problem lies in the fact that the state of Serbia is increasingly more and more technologically dependent. We have been technologically lagging behind in the earlier period, in the meantime we have done nothing, or rather the authority that led this country has done nothing to technologically improve Serbia. You can be competitive if you have technology at that level that you can mate to those who import their goods or their technology into this country. How can we mate with the importers? There's just no way. First, we signed an agreement on co-operation that implies almost total suspension of customs duties. Indemnity competition is created by that fact itself. No customs goods, no matter what nature they are, whether they are extensive consumption, what purposes or some technical goods enter under the so-called so-called. dumping prices, not for the reason that they are thinking about the consumer of a Serbian citizen, but for the reason that and what little domestic production is left to destroy. That's what we see best in agriculture. Agriculture literally suffers unfair competition that is reflected in the import of goods and we all know it. It's not a high-quality commodity, so it's competitive with our agricultural products, but it's characterized by a low average price, not to say poor quality. As such, it takes a monopoly position on our market. What is Serbian agriculture for? It serves as a source of cheap raw materials to be seen in agricultural products. Serbia's market for placement of goods is not so interesting to multinational companies, we understand each other for a number of reasons. First, because of the total number of potential consumers. They have markets that are much more interesting in Europe without speaking in the world. But it is very important for multinational companies to take a monopoly position, to win one market at a time, to destroy, essentially, their companies' competition, that there is no competition at all. And that's the nature of things. Always the one who sells, who manufactures and wants to sell his products, he tends to have as little competition as possible to make more money. On the other hand, every state wants to protect itself from such companies that want to establish a monopoly position. When it has the instruments of the state, then it can do it, and the instruments are real possibilities. The real possibility of looking at how much we've technologically advanced, how much we've invested in young people, in their education, how much attention we've given to everything that our young researchers, scientists, are doing, how much innovation we've invested in, how much state has given attention to, to see that in some generation, let's say, here, then we'll be ready to, together with the commission and all the other institutions, to start preventing the monopoly behavior of certain companies. Here, I ask you openly, gentlemen -- have you recently, and this applies to a few years, you've heard, say, that the Minister of Energy or someone from the Ministry of Economy went to the Michael Pupin Institute? Maybe they left by accident, if the president of the state left, and they pushed themselves into the front row so he could see them, and they have no idea what's going on there. And there are not a small number of smart, young people, experts, who, in a technological way, follow the domains in world and robotics and electricity and in many areas. Even in orthopedics. But they don't care. It's not that attractive. Where to show up waiters, conductors, half-complete schlepsers, show up in front of doctors, magistrates, and people who have brains. That's what bothers them. They're more interested in those old lamb brigades to eat. What are they doing at the Michael Pupin Institute? What's he doing at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering anyway? They sometimes know in these statistics that they say -- there are so many young experts gone. And what have they done, gentlemen? Has anyone in these resolution ministries, has anyone from the government, paid any attention? I happen to give an example to this institute, because there's a concentration of experts. There's no politics there. At the head of that institution is someone who is expert, proven himself in this profession. It's a chance. There is no chance that we here will fight the monopoly position of multinational companies coming from the EU. Well, imagine, the absurd is even bigger -- we by the laws of the EU that are adapted to large companies, and what do you think, that French and German are in railways and high-speed railways, what do you think, that they were completely out of the way when the law or legislation was passed in the EU? They dictated those conditions. Look at the process of building high-speed rails. Where are our domestics and our producers? And if we will, we can't be technologically involved in this. We can build some auxiliary facilities there. And why, gentlemen? Because we're doing ourselves some negative services. We have experienced to praise someone who deals with confectionary work, who by the color of cables makes something called car industry cables, and the domestic cable industry stands by us, and Jagodina, which was giant, and Zajecar and the New Sad cable factory. It wasn't someone who did this to us because, well, he was going to destroy that industry. No, he brought in the furniture after 2000, which after the sanctions, after everything that was going on, the bombing, completely destroyed the cable industry. Just to remind you, since I know this problem, gentlemen, when Finland's Nokia was producing wooden drums for power cables that are lying underwater, then the New Sad cable factory produced electronic computers in co-operation with Videoton. It's a technologically large difference. Finland's Nokia began in the field of electronics, especially in the area of telecommunications, not because those Finnishs, which someone would say -- because they're nice, but because they put into their minds, because they're similar institutes to what I've led you to see their people in key positions. They knew their brains would bring them progress. That's why they opened up minors, borders, to receive these educated and smart people in as many numbers as possible. And what are we doing? We are periodically considering these reports. There's something in this report that could be a common denominator for all of what I've been saying so far. When you did a sectoral retail analysis, there is one conclusion that reflects the full state of the sector. You said -- for potential retail investment on this market, it's scarce with attractive locations, which you're absolutely right, and a low standard of citizens. It's a risk to potential investors, and that's what you said. The low standard is the result of poverty, not progress. The purchasing power of citizens falls from day to day. We here listen to statistics as the consumer basket is getting more and more full of what a citizen can, and this is the reality that you have stated, the purchasing power has actually fallen. Secondly, in this sector, we can take a look at the projection of the state of Serbia. We have a situation where you found out from the analysis that Delez was buying a chain of sales facilities from Delta 26% of the total market under his control, that next to him "Idea", that is, one part of Agrokora has 13% by entering this market, buying, just reminding you, "C market". It is 39-40% market control when it comes to foreign capital retailing, especially the bigger the tragedy, than Agrokora, from Idea, which in the meantime establishes an absolute monopoly not only in the case of sales, but also in the case of production. Let me remind you, "Servo Mihalj", "Frikom", it is all "Agrokor", Todorovic. How did they get to that? Here's an example. Miskovic bought "Danubius". You know how? By pressuring the current director at the time of "Danubius" to take loans at all costs, the minister of the time Vlahovic pressured the current director. When Danubius, or the director under pressure, brought "Danubius" to the beggar stick because he could no longer serve loans, Miroslav Miskovic then appeared in 1993 and 1994, he had six heifers as initial capital. In 1997, thanks to his close relations with JUL and the SPS, he reached the bank. Just so you don't believe and make a monopoly. I'm talking to you on the case. That's how Todorovic established a monopoly through Agrokora. How do you fight that monopoly? Well, we listen to professional people who explain it to us. We have no problems when it comes to Agrokor, when it comes to "Idea". This is because of the intelligence of the then-led Serbian leaders, this does not apply, bankruptcy and liquidation of Agrokora will not affect negatively, these are stories for small children. That's not gonna happen. We need to be much more serious about the situation in which Serbia is located, especially when it comes to the competitiveness of domestic production. You can show here that you're showing growth in cement production, but don't forget, gentlemen, it's foreign capital, it's foreign companies. Cement would sell itself if it were a completely different ownership relationship, but then it was important to sell cement stores. They didn't buy, say, factories in New Belgrade, IMT, for tractor production, but they bought cement stores, they bought brewers. They bought what was attractive. They bought tobacco industries: Philip Morris and British Tabaco. They set up a monopoly right after October 5th. After October 5th, remember, Mercator came to this market as a monopoly. Well, that was a condition for these to come to power from DOS, to be supported by that Jankovic criminal, who once owned the Mercator. Now it's all connected to a coglomerate called "Agrokor", and under his rule are both "Idea" and "Merkator". They continue to be on the market, so I don't forget "Rodo". They are still present on the market, only formally under different names. When you look at the concentration of capital, where will you set a better example? The concentration of capital is here. Capital concentration is not in some banks or financial organisations, so they are required for a year to place it. No, it's in Agrokora. It is still a Croatian firm and it does not occur to anyone to say – wait people, let's see how the privatisation process even ran when it came to the arrival of "Idea" on this market. Why? Well, because you're just changing names and last names, Malten, in order for an ordinary man to notice it, nothing changes there, no one can stand for it because it's a rabbit's nest. And to seriously engage in such things, as you state here a series of examples, most of it for this reason that you said the insatiability of judges to run these processes. So is this. In order to get into the privatisation analysis done here, there must be professional people. We don't have people like that anymore. We literally have laws. You are witnesses, after all, and you work, part of it, when it comes to these chapters, by the laws that are being copied. It is not the work or participation of our experts, but the photocopied, scanned, even given in a twisted Serbian language, the escalators, who use, abuse Croatians. Well, they haven't even been able to translate that into some kind of language. They even gave, so since we're using these laws that we're photocopying, we don't need lawyers anymore, we don't need economists. Even though we have in mind what I said we don't need young experts, so what are we? We are a colony, and as a colony, we cannot, nor have any mechanism, and in particular we have no right to stand up to those who made us. These reports have to, as have the previous two days, these reports are a warning. Gentlemen, we have to think completely differently. We have to use our brains to improve our economy. We can't do everything, it's not ideal. We must prevent competition by returning customs to agricultural products, for starters. Where is it, people, that you go free into the market, and then you advocate that it will develop agriculture in Serbia? Here's how it develops. Let's eat at Lidl. It's a product of suspicious origin. What are these meat-processing products doing to us? The goods that expired in the stock reserves, older meat that was contained in meat processing than some of us by age. How do we stop it? How does this particular number of people on the committee and everyone else working on this job stop it? It's impossible. You will always be praised by those from the EU, because they have this habit. It's some kind of spinning matrix. They praised Bulgaria. Let me just give you an example that you know. They are Bulgaria, they convinced Bulgarians by entering the EU that they do not need roses. Rose extract gives quality smells. Bulgaria was one of the leading producers of these smells, the final product. They moved technology to Germany. You know how they convinced them? They said, "It's a much exceeded technology, that smell is no longer being used, and it makes you feel better." When they took the technology, the Bulgarians ran out of roses, ran out of scent, without products where they made significant foreign currency, now they tell them – now you're rich. You know why they're rich? Because they're in the EU, and they don't have their own production. Because that's the matrix they operate on. We Serbian radicals warn you, I'm not saying this to you as members of the commission to honor you if you hadn't done your part of the job, but I'm telling those who are the most responsible in this country that it's the last time we're paying attention to not a small number of young, smart people. There lies the possibility of Serbia fighting the monopoly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55695	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55696	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, distinguished guests from the Commission for the Protection of Competition, why is competition policy important and should it be nurtured and what citizens have from it? Therefore, the mission, the purpose of the Commission's existence for the protection of competition, is to provide equal conditions for all market participants in a way that ensures social well-being and economic progress, and in particular the benefit of consumers. So, equal opportunities for all market participants, especially with an accent on the benefit of consumers. Competition development policies, I would say, are also specialized, but also multidisciplinary. I think it is more important to try to present these policies to citizens than to go bureaucratically through the items of your annual work report, because it is important that citizens understand what you are really serving, why it is good for them and why it is important that you do what is right, so I will try to give some examples to see why it is important that independent institutions lead people out of strong integrity capable of resisting all pressures, whether they come from a political system or from an age-old capital, to be people who are able to maintain their independence, to work by law, by profession, and to resist such pressures. So in Novi Sad, you have a 200-metre circle of competitiveness policy and malls, so just before you mentioned the retailing of wide-use goods, three malls, two private and one state. One of these two private ones has recently received all possible benefits from the state and local self-government, both materially and immaterially, not only has he been given a subsidy in the form of direct payments but the subsidy has been indirectly given to him, through changes in their regulation to adapt to the needs of investors, through the equipment of municipal infrastructure, through the tolerance of the project solutions which are now here the wider local community also exhibits certain communal risks. This way, in all ways, the privileged private market centre will choke this other private and this one state-owned city centre. Finally, the result of the lack of competitiveness policy will be that soon no one will be able to buy in either of those three malls because of the conclusions you have concluded, which the previous speaker said, that the purchasing power of citizens is falling, among other things, because we do not have a competitive market which as a competitor is capable of developing and raising GDP and living standards for citizens. This example shows that competitiveness policy is multi-resoring and that the challenges faced by the Commission are multi-dimensional, in this case you have a multitude of participants in such a business venture as building and releasing major shopping malls and all of them by their own actions, in the way they prescribe behaviour, actions or failure to act, can affect competitiveness policy. Each of them can turn his head on a matter and give a participant in this venture the benefits that threaten competition. For example, an unauthorized change or selective application of urban regulations can be very easily brought by an investor, a more favourable position than other competitors. In that case, the distortion of competition comes from the authorities, therefore, from the state itself, from the political system. Private contractors of specific works, or the supplier of certain special goods, may agree on the price at which the buyer of their goods or services will be forced to pay expensively, because it simply does not have competition, or is limited by their agreement. With each of these actors, the Commission may be potentially confronted and within the limits of its competence, it will have to sanction such behaviour, or failure to act, as powerful as it is. Because the injury to competition we see from this example is not just when a change in ownership structure or by joining two companies creates a major market participant that takes an unauthorized large percentage of the market, therefore, is not a violation of competition just by concentration, as the law defines this phenomenon. CarGo is an excellent example of how the state creates a competitive environment for innovators who compete with conventional providers of certain services, in this case passenger transport services in road transport. It is, and it's quite dramatic, and now we're going to explain. The state decided to apply a free market restriction policy by regulating the price of providing these services, so by prescribing a minimum price, so-called. ‘Price flora’, but at a level above the free market price. The result is that it generates extra offers, as at a price higher than the market, below which it cannot go, more bidders will be ready to offer a service. This increases the benefit for bidders and reduces the benefit for consumers. There is also a surplus offer and the market is out of balance in which it would be that the price is freely established. The government's reaction to the consequences of this policy is the second measure of the government implemented in law, which is the legal restriction of the offer, the shift of the wrong offer to the left, to smaller quantities of taxis offered, by limiting the number of bidders allowed. The result of such market intervention by the authorities is the reduction of the overall newly created value in the road transport market, and this business will thus reduce the overall social benefit. This is the first year of economic college, you'll agree with me. Here, thank you for the smile that confirms that we agree. By law, further innovative methods of providing road transport services are put outside the law, practically, or prescribed in such a way that they cannot be applied in any other way than conventionally. So, it needs a meter, it can't app, it has to be a meter. The law is further written by a working group consisting of only one interested party, a conventional service provider, and an innovator competitor, is left out of the creation of a legislative environment, and brings a conventional competitor into a more favourable position. He makes moves which, practically, form some kind of cartel, by those bidders who offer their road transport services in one and only one conventional way, because each other is practically declared illegal. About applying methodologies, blocking the city, physical forces to cargo drivers, etc., these are already topics for some other state bodies. Therefore, this acts as unfair competition which is embedded in the very foundations of the road transport market of passengers. So, I've already been through the legislative process and it seems, unfortunately, to me, with the support of the ministry itself. The Commission has, however, given its opinion on the amendments to the Act that were recently clarified, addressed the problems of the service providers' headquarters, the issue of restrictions on the number of bidders, the definition and the minimum price allowed and the provisions governing the application of these innovative means of providing passenger transport services. However, the law did pass. I should think about it. I'd like to hear an opinion. Can the Commission’s opinions on legislative proposals be given a certain mandated character, or your opinion simply comes, the legislator reads them, finds them, puts them aside, and the law goes by without the obligation to make these opinions of any importance. Finally, CarGo submitted an initiative to the Competition Protection Commission to assess whether competition was damaged by the law and by taxi drivers. The case, meanwhile, has been escalated to the European Commission, by their address. I couldn't find anything on your site in the section relating to the ongoing infringement proceedings of the competition whether something was done on this initiative. In accordance with Article 35(4), The Competition Protection Act you have 15 days to respond from the day of the initiative, to submit an answer to the applicant of the initiative, so I would like to hear a comment. Therefore, competition policy is important for the care of the overall investment climate. A business environment in which competition is weak, unfair, burdened with illegal influences and illegal means of combating competitors with the judiciary that tolerates it, along with a commission that has no effective power to prevent it or to react and sanction it. Such an economic environment is characterized by a poor investment climate and in such an atmosphere Serbia cannot expect first-class investors in any kind of business. In such an investment climate, the Serbian economy is condemned to low-level investors, small-scale processing, low-quality and low-income, and we are forced to pay even such investments ourselves through subsidies and all other types of benefits. Investors will, of course, grow their appetites and demand more and more from the state to start their business here as compensation for their arrival in a market where competition is unfair and the investment climate is bad and thus unfair competition will only deepen. Competition policy and relevant law and legislation, in Serbia they are fully related to EU policy and competition rights and institutional procedural solutions we are building on the examples of the European paper model, but perhaps not quite and in reality. Here's what competition policy says about the European Commission's latest report on Serbia's progress in European integration. So, the problem of competition and your commission's work are covered by negotiating chapter 8 – competition policy, that's what this chapter is called. We should first agree as a society, whether or not we need European markets, to be an example of competition policy for market participants. I think that, because we know that these markets are more efficient in creating new values and increasing social wealth, and if it weren't for our citizens to go to work abroad, our favorite destinations wouldn't be Germany or France, our citizens would be happy people and live a better life at some other addresses, and we have a youth who cost us over a billion euros a year at that address in the EU. According to the latest European progress report on Serbia, it was found to have only moderate preparation in the area of competition, and with regard to the harmonisation of legislation in the area of state aid to economic actors it was found not to have been achieved, but no progress has been made. The exemption, a privatisation company from state aid control, further encourages the development of unfair competition. It was found that the commission itself has enough staff, that the number of cases of injury to competition was increased under investigation, as well as the increased material value of these cases. It has also been noted that the doubled value of fines paid in 2016, 2017, around 3.5m euros of fines charged, that the Commission's credibility has been increased by researching large private and public enterprises and promoting competition in the public and opinion given on the draft laws have been assessed as something that has increased public support and Commission work and should be highlighted and welcomed when it comes to the European Commission's assessment of the work itself of your institution. However, the assessment is that we are moderately prepared without progress in the area of distortion of competition through the aid of the country to fallen market participants and that it is also necessary to work in the judicial part of the development of competition and its defence against the illegal behaviour of market participants. This shows that the Commission is only one part of the entire system of development of competitiveness in Serbia's economy, and that it is actually scrambling in the judiciary and the political system that does not show enough political courage to solve the problem of the fallen businesses in Serbia that are mainly coming from the public sector. In a legislative normative sense, the challenges are in some low threshold of notification and concentration of application of the Interruption Institute, issues of direct application of European rules under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, methodology for determining the relevant concentration market on that relevant market and the existence of exemptions from the restrictive agreement. Many sectoral regulations deal with competition protection issues, but unfortunately, in a way that imposes regulatory restrictions, violates and even excludes competition, as we could see in the case of a sectoral regulation that I explained at the beginning of the presentation, which is the Law on transporting passengers in road transport and its recent changes. The independence of the Commission in relation to the executive power is questionable, because its financial plan is approved by the Government and if the Commission is not financed from the budget, but by market participants according to its tariffs and I ask why does the Government have to approve the Commission's financial plan? What is this provision in the law to do, then, because you're not burdening the budget? On the contrary, not only does the Commission not finance itself from the budget, but it pays its own, let's say, profits, under quotes, although the Commission should not actually be a profit organization since it is financed by the economy itself. The Commission should not profit from this economy, but from its service and regulator. In that sense, I would suggest perhaps some correction of the tariff and financial plan. I don't think there's any need to make a profit. For my point, you should be on positive zero. It is true that you profit, therefore, that extra income above expenditure, you pay it in the budget and that is the income that is in the public interest, but, as I tell you, it is again another non-monetary economy that it indirectly finances, because the money that you are taking from the economy ends up in the budget, and in some ways it seems to me like some kind of money, some kind of fiscal money. A million euros a year, therefore, for the entire economy is about a order of the size of the additional burden on the economy. With regard to the protection of competition, the Commission's issue of State aid control and the general policy of selective state aid to businesses is also important, as it is important for overall competition. The State Aid Control Commission, therefore, has no institutional capacity since it has no legal personality, and its professional and administrative affairs is carried out by the Ministry of Finance and its independence in assessing whether the policy of selective approval of state aid to market participants, whether such a policy violates competition, is seriously impaired. The subsidy policy is certainly a kind of unfair competition driven by the state itself, since taxpayers' money finance selected competitors to other businesses and mainly domestic businessmen as the users of the subsidies are a wave of foreign companies. We had an example when the domestic IT industry rebelled against subsidies to foreign investors in the IT sector, because it was a self-inflicted industry that broke down, I would say, not thanks to the state, but despite it. It is perfectly natural that the domestic IT industry felt that by subsidising a foreign IT investor, they were actually funded by their own money by a foreign competitor and that this is the kind of unfair competition encouraged by the state itself. In some ways, there is a systemic approach to strengthening the capacity of the judiciary in the area of competition. The Commission, as no doubt expert in its close consultations with the Administrative Court, may at times have too much influence on judicial decisions, and therefore it is important for the court to be strengthened. I don't think you'd be doing this on purpose, and I don't think you'd be doing it tentuously, but simply, with the information you present as professional and superior in that regard to someone who's professionally inferior to you, it might be a way for you to have an extremely good influence on the conclusions that someone will make in the court procedure that leads. It is therefore necessary to specialize in the Administrative Court, and it should bring about a uniformity of practice, better expertise with regard to the examination of complex relations between operators and market opportunities in the various markets that you analyse. The deadlines in which the Administrative Court decides on these issues are due to its overload, inconsistency, inconsistencies and insufficient urgency of the Administrative Court, with a lack of expertise due to the general practice of the Administrative Court, its insecurities, sometimes have a multi-annual analysis of your cases, which is a serious factor for the economy and business plans of businessmen. Of course, it should be noted that insufficient knowledge of the problem of competition protection exists among organisations that protect consumer interests, and I would encourage the Commission to intensify its communication with such organisations. For the very end, literally, in the remaining thirty seconds, some recommendation for overall improvement of competitiveness policy. The Commission's independence is strengthened by the abolition of its obligation to grant the government approval. It's enough to be financially controlled by the DRI. The State Aid Control Commission is set up on operational-independent grounds, not to defacto be part of the Ministry of Finance. The capacity of the Administrative Court is marked by specialization. The acting judges in competition protection procedures shall be educated under specific dedicated education programmes, in which the Competition Protection Commission itself may take a proactive role. In order to ensure consistency of judicial practice, the consistency of Commission practices is ensured, as this contributes to the predictability of the investment environment and encourages economic growth. Sectoral analyses are conducted in those markets that are most exposed to the risk of distortions of competition, which are telecommunications, energy, traffic, banking and financial services. What I would ultimately, here is just one more sentence, please, which I would most expect from the Competition Commission, to use Serbia's fear of a free market. So it is you who need to show Serbia that the free market is not a bauk and that, although the primary interest of capital is profit, not environmental or consumer interest, there are regulatory institutions that will reconcile the interest of capital and general social and public interest and thus create a stable development environment and break the famous fear in Serbia from the free market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55697	The word is Miloje Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55698	Thank you. I'll try to answer your questions as soon as possible, not to take too much time. I'll take my turn. As for the opinion of laws and regulations, we have that obligation under the law. We work with the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the World Bank project when it comes to opinions and, behold, the project is under way. We expect that, with the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, we will sign an agreement on co-operation in which every issue will take place before you get the law and discuss the law, each law will have one question in its questionnaire whether an opinion from the Competition Protection Commission has been received, so we do. So far, that's not an obligation. It is not an obligation to adopt, but you will have the opportunity to hear our opinions and make your own conclusions, because you decide. Anyway, you're the ones who make the laws. As for what you asked me about the initiative, the initiative is in a pre-examination procedure. We publish when we come to the conclusion of the launch. That's why he's not on the site. Otherwise, it's all on the site. You've seen that it's quite up-to-date and all the information is currently active and everything we can publish, normally, with protected data. So you know we're protecting the data. You understand why we're doing this. As far as this subject is concerned, I'm gonna have to take a little while. I'm not gonna take too much time. When it comes to what you said, it wasn't our jurisdiction between malls, so I wouldn't comment on any more state authorities, or municipal ones, but this part when we touch the analysis, we're analysis from the retail sector, it's on site on page 14, and it's called a document on the development of retail trade, on page 14 it says that the citizens' standard of living in Serbia is growing, 2014, 2015 and 2016. This is reflected through the annual traffic carried out by citizens through the spending of money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so this data and our analysis shows that the living standard of citizens is really growing very clearly, very precisely. There's been a serious analysis. We'll run an analysis, as I just said, for 2017 and 2018. We're done with 2016 very clearly. As the MP said earlier, we also have the revenue achieved and market shares. We did this in a very detailed way, we saw it in Belgrade, not only in Belgrade, so we weren't dealing with Belgrade, we were dealing with the Belgrade region, Vojvodina, southern and eastern Serbia, Šumadija, western Serbia, and we were looking at both the surface and income and the number of objects, we did this a lot, but I have to say this, as far as citizens' living standards are concerned, 14, 15 and 16. The Commission has come to the data, we have on our site, we can read it, it's our conclusion, and it's the radio economic sector, which has won a prize in Italy, from the Association of Economists in this area, and I trust it, and I'm pleased to have such a sector. As far as the Commission is concerned, yes, the report is good. In the protection of competition, or in Chapter 8, it's state aid, but it's not our jurisdiction, you know, we don't have jurisdiction. We, here, gave the man we hired in the Commission, he's running state aid now, he's been employed by the Commission, he's now frozen his job, the government of the Republic of Serbia has appointed him, we expect a shift in the area. State aid is a difficult area, too, you know, quite difficult, and we expect results to be made there, but we can't do other people's work, it's not our jurisdiction, and in any case you understand me. As for surpluses, you didn't seem to be, when I said, yes, we have surpluses, but look, from surpluses we extract, from surpluses, it's not profit I apologize, but surplus, we extract a portion in the reserve, and we give a portion into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We have a reserve and that reserve is in the vault of the Republic of Serbia, it's a consolidated account of the Treasury, and Mr. Arsic knows it well, so that's the state's money. That reserve serves us for God's sake. If we had no income to work with, we have to have something to finance ourselves from, and not to burden ourselves, like other institutions were, and that also knows the Finance Committee, I guess that's what he's dealing with, other institutions had this problem, they didn't have a reserve, and they didn't get the money from the budget, and there was a delay in functioning. We don't want the institution to fail, we have enough reserve to work for three years, but just before I said I wanted help, that we wanted to solve the Commission's space. The Commission paid 15 euros in business space with VAT, and now we pay six euros, plus costs. So the difference is 9 euros. We have a good space, it's state space, but we want to solve it with DRI, with other institutions. Maybe we're sitting in the same space, in the same building where, I don't know, we'll see with the state authorities if we can find it. Maybe not, but even though we're buying some state to do it, we're going to say, that's your money standing with you, that's state money, that's not the Commission's money. You know, that's why it's good, they gave the cab level whether it should be reduced, please leave for a question, not to discuss it now, very problematicly. And what you told me about the concentration, look, a very sensitive question, what are the concentration limits, what are the companies under our focus? I have to meet the MPs here, we had one problem that Croatia wanted, "Agrokor" when we mention, through a company from the Netherlands, to open at the border with Serbia a company, equipped, similar to "Frikou". That would happen, at a hundred kilometers of cost is a small, highway, it could happen that "Frike" closes because there is a better company, a more perfect, better equipped border with Serbia. Or, as we are now, Mr Mircic came out when he talked about Agrokor, you see, we are going to go to 2019, we are now the conclusion of the rejection of a concentration application in which part of the Agrokora company was wanted to buy from the Netherlands and to extract one part of a healthy company. We didn't know what it was, we didn't have enough data, we didn't get court rulings, and we didn't reach a conclusion on the rejection of that concentration. So we're really and really working, professionally following this part of the job, controlling everything within our borders of authority. We can't do part of a job that isn't ours, or we can. Thank you, I think I've answered all the questions. If there's anything I'm not, here's what I'm gonna do, and after and after, and always, you can ask a question or answer it, it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55699	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55700	I thank you for your answers, very briefly. So, I know that the State Aid Commission is another body, and I know that today we are talking about your Commission, so the Commission you are running, but, as I say, because of the degree in which the state appears as a participant in the economy, the state is a huge buyer, a huge supplier through various legal forms and legal persons in which it appears in various markets. The state, therefore, is a very important businessman, still, unfortunately, it is not good, for competition policy and for the overall development of the market. That is why these intervention measures of the state are also very important and therefore the state aid policy and the commission, as a body implementing that policy, is very important for the overall picture of Serbia's state of competition policy. As for the surplus that the Competition Protection Commission is making, I said profit under question. Of course, you're not even a stock company, you're a state institution. How can I tell you, it's nice that you have reservations to continue for the next three years of business, but how can I tell you, most of the businessmen in Serbia can't afford the luxury of having a reservation for the next three years, but okay, I don't argue, you said alone, the second time we're going to talk about tariff policy. You know for a fact that all economics are seen as something that the economy always requires to reduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55701	The word is a colleague of Ana Čaapić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55702	I thank the chairman. Dear Presidents and members of the Competition Protection Council, distinguished fellow MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like first to point out that we MPs of the ruling majority really have an easy task when we find ourselves in the role of authorised representatives of our parliamentary group in the interpretation of any law, international treaty or agreement proposed by the Government or reports of independent and independent organisations, which correspond to the National Assembly for their work, because it is not only simple, but it is an honor to explain quality laws that contribute to improving the quality of life of all Serbian citizens, which provide a quality legal framework for the implementation of strategies and measures of accelerated economic growth and sustainable economic development. On the other hand, when it comes to reports and independent and independent organisations that exercise public authority and for their work correspond to the National Assembly, it is mainly about the content of documents on which the work, which is in line with the mission and the vision of the organisation is displayed. The Commission's report on the protection of competition, which we are discussing today, contains on its pages a number of activities concerning the provision of conditions for economic growth and development, the creation of new jobs, the growth of GDP, that is, activities that result in a higher standard of living for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate both you and the Presidents and members of the Competition Protection Council and all the Commission's employees on their successful work, just the report we are discussing today, which is on the agenda being praised by the European Commission, with an extremely high assessment, and in a recent report on Serbia's progress on the way to the EU. The harmonisation of the legislative framework with EU legal assets is highly assessed, as well as the implementation of the Commission's activities and activities in the area of competition protection according to the euro area countries' reputation. Also, the European Commission notes the progress of our Serbian Commission for Competition Protection in the number of cases of competition injury detected, in the number of sectoral analyses, as well as the spread of competition promotion policy. For us Serbian citizens, this means economic progress and improvement in all areas of our lives. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to point out that the Competition Protection Commission was established in 2005 under the Competition Protection Act. The work began in April 2006. However, despite being one of the youngest institutions involved in protecting competition in the world, I can freely say that the full effects of its work have only been achieved in the last five years. Why? Because in the period from 2000 to 2012, not that there was no competition, but there was no monopoly. Only in 2004 until 2008, the previous regime closed over 2,000 factories and fired over 400,000 workers, so there was no way it could have been about either the monopoly or the competition or the injury to the competition. The former regime was not interested in any business branch, no agriculture, no tourism, no trade, but they were very interested in the industry, and in the implementation of robbery privatisations, in order to fill their own pockets. They were particularly interested in obtaining a monopoly or at least in establishing a dominant position over the media in Serbia. We've seen this great on the Dragan Solak case. Indeed, as a graduate economist, I cannot understand that 55% of the market share held by Solakov SBB is neither a monopoly nor a dominant position on the market, and 15% of the market participation that Telekom has as cable operator is a monopoly. Can you explain to us as citizens of Serbia this phenomenon, that 55% of market participation is not a dominant position and 15% is? While ruling by 2012, they wanted to weaken and destroy Telekom, which is a state-owned company that employs over 13,000 workers at the time, to create conditions for Telekom to buy Dragan Solak. If that had happened, Solak and Dragan Gilas would have had an absolute monopoly on the media in Serbia, which is certainly not good, and that was their goal. Their goal was to blackmail policy against authorities to obtain their own benefits that they are known for everywhere in the region. All the countries in the region where Dragan Solak operates, has its own companies, have characterized Dragan Šolak as a tycoon, which he really is. It is the media freedom directed by Alliance for Serbia representatives. Their biggest and only problem is that they can't take down and destroy our president, Alexander Vukic, despite all the lies and lies that spread through their media. First, Šolakov N1 has no ratings in all analyses, regardless of what takes first place on the list of Solak SBB channels, and secondly, Aleksandar Vukic is not afraid of anyone, primarily of a tycoon such as Dragan Djilas, Dragan Šolak, then Vuk Jeremic, because he brought more investors to Serbia than any president so far and because he is fighting for the interests of our country as a lion. So, these Alliance for Serbia want much more happiness in designing more creative lies in the coming period, since it is obviously their only task. What is important for citizens is that in the last six years only German companies have been employed, so only in the last six years, over 50,000 workers, so it is the German companies operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we must not forget either Austrian, French, Dutch, Italian, Slovenian, Chinese, Turkish and many other companies that come from all parts of the world, which in our country see a secure business partner. The Commission report itself shows where Serbia is today and how far Serbia has progressed today. Most of the demands, i.e. applicants, when it comes to concentration, are just coming from companies from the countries of Germany, the USA, Austria, the Netherlands, France, which says that companies from these countries are investing in our businesses and production plants, right in the enterprises and production plants that the previous regime destroyed and robbed. It is also clear in the report provided for in the table below that the maximum number of requests was sent to the Commission in 2018. This confirms that the largest inflow of foreign direct investment has just been achieved in 2018. In most cases, the Commission found that there was no injury to competition, which tells us that the Competition Protection Commission is working in parallel to raising awareness of both legal and natural persons, the importance of the market economy and the importance of competition. Finally, Serbia's economy gets companies working on their efficiency and productivity, which means for us consumers that we will have quality products and quality services at lower prices. So healthy competition and economics bring huge benefits to both the economy and the citizens. Also, in my presentation, I want to meet the citizens of Serbia that the Competition Protection Commission is financed exclusively from its own sources of funding, which is absolutely in line with the Competition Protection Act, which is fees paid in accordance with the law, then, these are different donations, revenues from the sale of publications and others. I would like to commend the Commission for having managed to pay close to one billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget so far, which is indeed commendable and congratulating. The observed Report clearly shows that in 2018 you worked really hard to strengthen the Commission's institutional and administrative capacity. It is a particularly interesting fact, I will point out, that our Competition Protection Commission has a 20% to 40% reduction in staff compared to other bodies in countries in the region and in Europe dealing with competition protection, which means that we have quality and professional staff who are employed and who work in the Commission itself. It is important to note that the Competition Protection Commission achieved excellent international co-operation with international institutions and in 2018 the Commission also participated in a number of seminars and conferences in the UN Trade and Development Organisation, then the International Competition Network, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Trade Organisation, etc. In 2018, the Commission co-operated with as many as 12 bodies in the field of competition protection and signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with Turkey, and you announced that a memorandum of co-operation with China will be signed soon, which we will, of course, see in the 2019 report, so next year. In the past few years, media interest in the Commission's work and the results of the Commission's work has been increasing, which is really good. In this respect, the report states that in 2018 more than 1300 publications were made online, which in the printed, which in TV media, eight professional publications, based on which you made your income, which I just did. It is particularly important regarding the awakening of people's awareness and interest in both natural and legal persons, as well as the media for your work, as well as the importance of establishing a market economy. The Competition Protection Commission also has successful co-operation with regulatory bodies, with representatives of the executive body, with educational and scientific institutions. In addition, the Commission's increasingly intensive participation in giving an opinion on draft laws that may be relevant to the state of competition on the market and the ultimate aim is to create a favourable economic environment for attracting an even greater number of both foreign and domestic investors. We must never forget domestic investors. That the Competition Protection Commission is indeed an independent and independent organisation to bear witness to the data contained in the report, where it is clear that neither public or private companies are spared when acting independently or at the request of natural and legal persons. So everybody's in control. If we look at the items completed in the administrative procedure, it is clear that in our country today we have absolute rule of law. Simply put, no one can escape from the law in Serbia today. And we really all need, thanks to the absolute rule of law established in the Republic of Serbia, we should thank our President Alexander Vukic, because his mission and pre-election promise in 2012 was just the establishment of absolute rule of law. Also, when we look at the report, we will see that on page 31 we have a presentation of the cases completed in the administrative procedure, while on pages 31 to 36 we have a list of legal entities that are based on a breach of competition, whether they are abuse of dominant position or restrictive agreements, solutions given adequate measures, in this list are also included: and the company "Auto Cačak" d.o.o. Konjevici, JP EPS distribution d.o.o. Belgrade and Philip Morris a.d. Nis and Serbia's Bar Association and many others. So in Serbia today there is law, work, order and profession. It is precisely because of such a way of working almost all institutions that the Republic of Serbia today really has something to boast about. In the last five, six years we've opened hundreds, thousands of new jobs. We can boast that we are an absolute leader in the region in terms of attracting foreign direct investment. Well, in 2018 alone, we have an inflow of foreign direct investment of 3.5 billion euros, which is for every praise, and also in the first five months of 2019 we have growth based on foreign direct investment inflows by as much as 17% compared to the observed period Then there are hundreds of kilometers of newly built highways and tracks, 1,000 kilometers of built and renovated roads, for the fifth year in a row we have a surplus in the budget. I must also point out that when the finance minister opened a new Meita factory in Obrenovac, in which more than 3,000 people will work, announced an increase in the minimum labour price for September and also announced by the end of the year that there will be an increase in pensions and wages in the public sector and, most importantly, the increases will be paid out of real sources of funding because it has GDP growth. By international agencies, the institution is estimated to have a GDP growth of about 3% in 2019, a high-priced credit rating agency for Serbia, reflecting a continuous decrease in public debt, and we remember that from 77% in 2014, something close to 50% of GDP, which is also commendable. Today, there is no city and municipality in Serbia that something has not been done, whether it is building a new hospital, school, kindergartens, factories, roads, sewage networks or anything else that contributes to the better quality of life of citizens in Serbia. So, unlike those in the Alliance for Serbia who want to get their hands on full state tills, and where they left their misery and desolation after their 12-year reign, our institution, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, whom these shameless people call Hitler, are working tirelessly and Serbia is respected today in all international institutions, Serbia has regained its reputation in the region and the world and Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic, is today a reliable partner for all those countries that have serious intentions to invest and to achieve any other co-operation with us. This is what Serbian citizens see and how they feel about their home budget, which is really, really, really better today than it was in the period until 2012. Therefore, in all elections, citizens reward the work and fulfilled promises of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. We had a chance to see on Sunday, June 16th, elections held in Majura near Sapac that Serbian citizens said they believed six times as much SNS and that SNS was six times better than those of the Alliance for Serbia. It is the advance wind in our backs that in the coming period we are doing even better and even more for all citizens of Serbia. I will also take this opportunity to congratulate the President and members of the Commission's Council, all of the Commission's employees, who have just helped the Republic of Serbia become a regional centre for the Western Balkans when it comes to protecting competition and we must never forget that there are two countries in the Western Balkans that are members of the EU, which are Slovenia and Croatia. I wish you a lot of success in your work. Only the market economy and its efficient functioning contribute to the political and economic stability of a country, and this means economic progress and prosperity for the citizens and certainly a higher standard of living. The SNS Group will continue to monitor and support your work in the coming period and, of course, we will vote for the adoption of your 2018 Work Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55703	Thank you. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) In that case, we are moving to a debate in a order of MPs reported for discussion. The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55704	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Presidents and members of the Competition Protection Commission, fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, Commission Report on Competition Protection, which is today in front of us in the debate, I find very important and valuable today's debate in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I say this for the reasons of the importance of the topic which the Commission is dealing with, because the protection of competition represents full legal certainty for all market participants and thus ensures the country's economic stability. The same conditions of positioning on the market for all, as well as legal certainty, make competition loyal and ensures the safety of market participants who can often be unfair and unfair, especially smaller entities compared to larger ones. Abuse of the dominant position of individual market participants, the illicit use of restrictive agreements, the occurrence of oral agreements, the emergence of sales at dumping prices, i.e. prices lower than the cost of costing products, all in order to win the market. These are all elements that can disrupt the market, balance it and adversely affect individual participants through a reduction in their earnings due to unfair competition. As a graduate economist, from personal, long-term work in the banking sector, following the market of banking services and decades of work in the NIS-Gasprom oil company in a leading position, right in business function, selling oil derivatives, following this very important and sensitive market, I know how important it is for the economic stability of all market participants and countries in general, important protection of competition through the recognition of all negative factors and phenomena that can endanger market stability, and that is exactly what you do, respected members of the Competition Protection Commission, and I find your work very important. The Commission's job is not easy. On the contrary, it is very difficult, complex, requires a continuous process of work, because all the negative factors that can happen on the market must be monitored continuously and continuously, in order not to disrupt the legal safety of market participants. Given that the process of work, monitoring of competition, is uninterrupted and continues continuously, in order to achieve better results in the Commission's work, the Commission should continue to work on improving the quality of operations in the coming period, to become even more recognizable as an institution whose reputation is based on expertise, to provide legal certainty for all market participants, with a consistent application of the legislation. This will make public support, which is already recognised, even greater, because market participants are aware of the importance of the Commission's action and ensuring their full legal certainty in protecting against unfair competition. Namely, competition, as a business struggle process between companies, plays a central role in fostering economic growth. If the ultimate objective of this is both consumer protection and its benefits, then certainly the level of economic growth must be a criterion for assessing the protection of competition. We can talk about positive economic growth if there is no harm to competition in the market, but if the injury occurs and we know it is happening, then the role of the Competition Protection Commission becomes more important, even more important and significant and its recognition of negative phenomena, which bring down fair competition, its opinions, recommendations, the Commission helps the damaged parties to regain their lost profits. This is the legal certainty we are talking about, which is necessary through the Commission's operation for all market participants. The report presents concrete examples of applications to the Competition Commission from market participants, which most often refers to irregularities in the public procurement process, then abuse of dominant position, use of illicit restrictive agreements, which shows that the Commission has solved a certain number by characterising them as a breach of competition. This is not a large number, but very significant, as an incentive for all market participants to have someone who follows what they need, which is important in their business, to have and to work in the conditions of loyal competition. So, there may be a lot more to this topic, but I will at the end of my presentation stress the importance of activity in raising awareness among everyone on the protection of competition. I believe that it will be implemented in several ways through public representation and promotion of competition policy through the continued communication of the Commission with state authorities and organisations, with the professional public and academic public, with representatives of the Association of Market Participants and the media of course. Given that effective application of the rules in the field of competition protection is a condition for strengthening and developing our economy, I consider the transparency of the Commission's work to be of paramount importance for the future. To submit annual regular reports to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to inform the general public through the media, via your official website, is the best way to publish concrete results of the Commission's work in the coming period. I will also say that from the perspective of someone in the real sector of the economy, who has met these topics personally, practically in the business, given the importance of your decisions and opinions for all market participants, I wish you success in future work and even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55705	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55706	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all remember the findings of the European Commission saying that there is unfair competition on cable operators and that it is to the detriment, they are probably referring to the SBB, and in favour of the state, i.e. ‘Telecoma’. It also says that they have adopted all objections from N1 TV related to the media image in Serbia. This is my response to Fabrizio, head of the EU delegation. I can't agree with that, and I think the Competition Protection Commission also had to react, as it says in the Electronic Media Act that REM, the regulator, is working with you. It also says in this report that you have an agreement with them. I also received the answer that N1 television is registered in Luxembourg, and that the program and advertising is broadcast from Ljubljana. Well, give people a chance to read the law. How can a cross-border television that, according to the Convention on Cross-border Television, which we have legally confirmed, and the domestic Media Act can only broadcast an unchanged signal from Luxembourg without any insertion or termination? It's written in several members, it's easy to read. How can they make it clear to us? They have declared that the programme is not being rerouted from Luxembourg, but that it is being packaged in Ljubljana. They are also in Ljubljana, Slovenia, cross-border television. They are based in Luxembourg, they are authorised from Luxembourg and only a programme broadcast in Luxembourg can be re-emissioned this time to SBB. You have allowed, together with REM, and I think that on REM, the main blame, on Mr Karadzic, who I think is his place in prison and with all those who worked with him -- the value of this robbery, primarily domestic media and domestic consumers, is measured hundreds of millions of euros. Don't ask where Gilasu got 500 million euros? Ask REM, and work with them a little bit, I can see that you signed the agreement only in 2018, so that's a certain way of amnesting you. Although you've been getting letters from the domestic media that there's unfair competition. Why? Because domestic media has to pay broadcasting fees. So they register with REM. They're paying the broadcasting fee. They pay Sokol, Ratel, God's father. They pay taxes on advertising, etc. Its competition is virtual channels, pirated, N1, 13 Sport channels, etc., mainly gathered around United Media, linked to SBB and United Group, owned by David Petreuv, head of the CIA, and now owns BS partners, a powerful group from Great Britain. There's Solak and Gilas. In United Media, the Darak Media is Gilas' firm, Kas Media, which deals with advertising. He gathers 20 and some channels, of which only three domestics, "Grand" and I don't know who else, 13 Sport Channels, N1, "Sinemania" and I don't know which. "New S", which appeared to you a television show that got a license in Luxembourg and lined up before national television. Imagine domestic channels that pay all these fees and you have cross-borders that don't pay any of that. Is that unfair competition? Yes, it is. Together with REM you should write to Luxembourg, Slovenia and see with related organisations whether what I am saying and such programs should be removed from the cable and the telecommunications markets and from the markets among media service providers because it is work on black and directly endangering people who pay taxes. They broadcast ads, 20m euros per year broadcast commercials, inserting commercials into cross-border fake television and other cross-border TV, and thus taking bread to domestic media who pay everything, and that is not enough for them. SBB's subscription doesn't pay domestic channels anything. It's another kind of unfair competition. But these cross-border, in particular, false cross-border payments pay a few euros per user. There's no greater unfair competition, no bigger robbery than that committed by Gilas and Solak. Not only are they robbing, they're destroying the possibility of this society being democratic. Free media is a condition for democratic society. What are the free media when the media market is ruled by Solak and Gilas and all regulatory bodies as independent? You're not independent of us. You're independent of the government, etc. of politics, but you're not independent of us and you're all silent and you're all watching them rob. Millions are taken on commercials, millions from subscriptions. How does Telecom, which covers three times the market, pay 150m euros in profits, and since 2015, SBB, which has three times the market, lose? How does a loser SBB buy a "BC partners" pay two billion and 600 million euros? What if you're losing her? Is it known that they only buy profit? Because they know where the money leaks from the subscription, because they know how Gilas and Solak, who are part of that robbery, robs this people and this country. You and REM need to get in their way. Maybe you haven't had the authority yet, and now you have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55707	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55708	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the chairman, the issue of protection of competitiveness is one of the issues of strategic importance for the development of a society and state and it does not fall within the order of those issues that need to be treated formally, paperworkally and simply in order to meet the formal obligation. So, one society to the extent that it manages to ensure the protection of competitiveness actually provides one of the most significant engines to dynamic development primarily in the economy sector, but not only for business, but also for other segments of society, because besides insurance, therefore, quality assurances, the question of competitiveness, i.e. the environment of legal competitiveness, is that energy and that power that simply keeps society moving forward. Certainly, by introducing a multi-party system, in the 1990s, we accepted a system of market economy, which is an inseparable part of free society. But after three decades, we faced the fact that it is not difficult to accept the titles of principle, to accept in principle what cultural and civilization achievements and values of the civilized world are. In fact, in life, it's not hard to agree that what's good is good and say I want it to be that way. It's just acceptance of titles. Titles are always easier to accept than text, than to make a quality text that actually represents the implementation of that title. It is easy to make decisions, it is harder to apply them, it is even harder to change habits, and it is even harder to establish the necessary culture that stems from that principle, that is, from that decision. We need all of this, so we are not lagging behind in the principle will of the ruling policy on implementation and this principle and this value. But what's very difficult, as in other segments of total change in habits and building a new culture in this relationship is actually something that needs to be the focus of our interest. Of course, this is not an opportunity to give a lot of examples where we have a difference between the decision and the practice in implementing that decision. One of these questions is, in fact, a subject of higher education, where we have in principle a constitutionally declared commitment, that we have equality in terms of the same chance for all. However, in the practice of funding state universities and non-financing of private universities, we have a clear example of the lack of competition protection. Because you have a university that sells its high school service, and it's budget-funded, and there's so-called. Autonomous funds or your assets or I don't know what they're already calling them, which is an unexplainable category, and on the other hand you have a private university that's in a race with them on the market and which is now supposed to achieve a result, to get students under unequal conditions, which is actually a typical example of unfair competition. We have some shortages in health care and some other segments. We may have gone further into the economy to protect competitiveness, but these are just indicators that it has to be different, because they can't be children who study at a private university less citizens of this country, but children who study at the state university. They must have equal chances of being guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55709	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Obradovic and his associates, it is quite clear that this is about your Commission's 2018 report, but it could have been an impression that the Commission was created here shortly before 2018. However, just to remind the public, you know it well and so do we, that this Commission was formed in 2006. For ten years, so for a decade, she was involved in creating conditions for herself. Her effect was nothing. Now, reading this report, in one part, you get the impression that you've put the whole policy aside, so I think it's some institute of a newer, more modern economy or something, and that's all right. From us, Serbian radicals, you cannot expect us to praise. There are things here that you and your associates have done well, you have potential, and at some point I thought I was an MP in Switzerland or that I was their guest. You said we have 53 employees, they're about 70, much more control and intervention we've achieved. Partly you're right, you're absolutely right there were more interventions, but why is there less need for intervention? Because you respect the system, because everyone does their job. At every turn, corruption, crime, thieves and the like lurking in every corner. Now, there are certain people who are willing to deal with it and all those who want to do it can count on absolute and maximum support from the SRS. This is a good practice, where I would dare say most thanks to the SRS, and so far certain institutions have submitted their reports to certain committees and they have considered them and there has been a point. Here, for the first time in this session, we have reports, I would say the third independent organization, which reports the report, and we are discussing here. We get some information from you as far as it's been with certain activities, and you can get some information from us again where it's not good, where you could intervene. I've seen here that you've made co-operation with a lot of state institutions, but there's probably a need with someone else, and as you say, they have some measures that you're taking. You can also make some suggestions, although it is not directly in the jurisdiction of your Commission and of you as President of the Council, you can insist on it with some other state authorities and try to do so. I'm not saying you didn't, but that's how we're gonna talk and analyze this report of yours. You say he's grown, he's improved his standard of living. There is some truth about it, and it is fixed as that: cabbage, meat, rice, and sarma. Pretty much, that's right. Our citizens are over-indebted, the consumer basket is slightly better, fuller in some, but the general conditions aren't still so, they're not at that level that we can be satisfied, and I didn't even hear you say that someone said that this was a moment and a time when we should be completely satisfied. I like it, or we like what you've been doing in sectoral analysis, because if something is prescribed and done, and there's no analysis, then it's like it's not even done. Based on your reports, those they refer to, we as MPs, economic operators can see in which direction they should go further and what should be done further. Baby equipment, you mentioned. You remember some time when, now some regime before this regime has made a decision and asked young parents or parents at all, even what they shouldn't have, to keep fiscal accounts for a year, so that after a year, they would have returned that equipment they bought for babies. That's where we got into the one problem of Natalie. Now, all the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which responsible and patriotically willing people want to implement in order to overcome this white plague more easily, cannot give effect because there was a period when we didn't take care enough of it, that is, by official policy, we ruined something, or killed it in itself in the beginning. I hope that time never happens again. I'm going to delegate a question to you that I'm not sure I am, whether it's just in your direct jurisdiction. When we talk about competition, Serbia is a country in which the raspberries are produced and spoken of by all perhaps half, perhaps superficially, and most of the problems are directly produced by producers. They're in a more difficult position year after year. About two months ago in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there was a meeting where the producers of this red gold were present, sometimes called, or strawberry fruit, and where they calculated that the producer's price was 139,30 dinars plus some margin, plus the costs of transport, and then the refrigerators appeared, perhaps now there and another was inserted into the system, which said that the price of raspberries could possibly be around 100 dinars. It is, as he said, rudely brazen, rudely to come up with such a proposal, especially when known, it is said that about when raspberries should give their full generation, i.e. to enter raspberries, in certain parts of Serbia something that no one could influence, and these are some basic disasters, such as rain, the city, which is somewhere early in the spring, and these last snows destroy that production and create a problem for agricultural producers. Now someone who is president of the fruit community in Serbia, that is Evica Mihaljevic, is coming out with some data that the export of raspberries is from 100,000 to 120,000 tonnes on an annual basis. Those who are more serious and more detailed than me are following this problem say that year after year the production of our fruit is constantly dropping because the price is not stable and not that it is not satisfactory to earn, but it cannot cover those entry costs that exist. Now it should be examined whether or not the export was actually at that level. If it was, it could have been a one-sided re-export, which again Serbian products are later in the issue of exporters, or perhaps it was only through export papers to recover VAT from the state. These are very dangerous things, things in which there may be elements of a crime, and there should be something to be done. When they agreed on a price in the government, it was said where eight tons per hectare is supposed to be this price, and if the offering is something better, there could be something lower. There are some problems, Mr. Obradovic, which you could certainly give along with your associates a good answer that would make Serbian citizens, or producers, happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55712	I appreciate everything you've said. I'll try to answer this when it comes to raspberries. You know what, I'm a citizen, and when I go to the country, you know, everybody asks me about the raspberries and I need to know the answer, but we were dealing with raspberries. It is part of our jurisdiction of raspberries, as is part of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade. Definitely, we've been working on this. I insisted, here I tell you, the July-December 2017 period we worked on this problem as a commission. So, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, Customs, Ministry of Agriculture, 13 of the largest raspberries exporters, we took data from them, so that's about 45% of the total quantity produced and accounts for about 50% of total raspberries exports. So these 13 hold about 45% of the quantity produced and 55% of the raspberries exports. It wasn't that export, the biggest export was 2015. So in 2015, it was about 100,000 pounds, as we see here on the chart. Let me cut the short story. What's this all about? There was a lot of problems, from production, from exports, from large stocks, it seems to me that there were some other supplies, this analysis showed us, stocks of the genus 2016. We didn't have any evidence that there was a cartel in the freezer part that they were making deals, there were a lot of coolants. Should we have evidence? Yeah, without evidence we can't do anything, we need to get evidence. We're still working on it, so the resolution ministries are working. I must say that Minister Nedimovic, we had a lot of contacts, really a man devoted himself to doing it and doing the maximum work and the government was working on that problem. So today, I watched it yesterday, I follow it, believe me, every day as a citizen, not as president of the commission. So any deal is punishable and has our jurisdiction. We haven't gotten to the evidence yet, we're working on it, if we find out, everyone will be punished by the redeemer. Should the Department of Commerce be involved? Yes, and the Ministry of Agriculture and all the state authorities, I see, both the police and the BIA. I'm here for anyone who doesn't account to do something illegal, not everything in our jurisdiction. It's ours if it's proven to have cartels and ice-cream deals. So, I come from this area where I know that people grow raspberries, hold small possessions, 10 acres, 15 acres, that's what makes them, many families live. So, we are seriously dealing with this and we will work together, as the MP said earlier, we must all work together, and the ministries and the MUP, if necessary and the BIA, the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, inspections all in charge, because this is our job and we have our jurisdiction. So we worked on it, we made a few recommendations, we had problems with Bosnia, it was imported from Bosnia, it was cheap raspberries in Bosnia, the subsidies were in Bosnia. I did for subsidies to be given to our producers, and that's what this country does. Anyway, this is a common problem, not just yours, mine, but all of us and the whole country are working on it. I see there's a shift in that part, and I saw this report on TV this morning that she left that misinformation about the price. I think the market will regulate it that refrigerators have to comply with laws as well as with manufacturers, and we'll control it all as a country together, it's our joint business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55713	The People's MP Sreto Peric has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55714	Mr. Obradovic, in order to help you just a little bit, two years ago there was one meeting in Valjevo, I don't know now exactly how many coolers had a meeting where they agreed on a price, even taking each other's notes, as a means of security that they wouldn't date prices that weren't agreed between them. Is there a better example than breaking regulations? Not only are the regulations broken, but the question is whether this production will be able to be restored. I'll give you another example when at one point, I wouldn't say state, but an individual, at the time the director of the tax administration, intervened in a primary tobacco processing plant and abused his position, that tobacco production was destroyed in that area, where the greatest living work was invested. I don't know how much profit those who do this production and later make primary or secondary processing, and there are losers from factory manufacturers, of course, and the state through taxes to be introduced. Take a look at that. I'm prepared for some evidence that I can come to offer you, and look at you, because as you said, it is in your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55715	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55716	Actually, just a brief addition, if you'll excuse me, for the purpose of this discussion. In market response situations, it does not necessarily mean that this reaction can only go in a negative direction. So, precisely on the subject of this that an agreement has been reached between, feel free to correct me if I'm wrong, the manufacturer from Zlatiborsky, Moravia County and several different refrigerators that 150 dinars will be the starting value of the buyout. Now we wonder what can be expected in a period that is yet to come. So it's a deal, and some things should simply be done based on what the market ultimately dictates. The news of this morning, it seems to me, just about those of the highest quality raspberries, is that at this moment there is an estimate on the world market that these most quality ones will be missing. Thus, we have a real basis for expecting that demand for these most qualitative raspberries in our area will be greater than it was. What's that supposed to mean? It can't be guaranteed, but it could mean that we're talking with real expectations, not because we'd like to, that this price of 150 dinars might be exceeded, that it'll be better. So, the state should always do what the state can do, so it's not controversial and I agree about it, but that we don't need to worry or scare anyone at this point, I think it's a real and appropriate approach. And besides, this raspberries is important for some of the reasons we're talking about in this room here, and it helps us understand and relations better in the world, not only when it comes to the world market, but also when it comes to relations between countries. Remember, we reminded ourselves several times that this very market that is particularly interesting to us makes those countries that we keep repeating are worth cooperating with, because it's costing us economically. Some people like them a little less because they belong to the political west, but they're, like, here, interesting to us just like the market. Just as Serbia is interesting to us as the market for some other products. So we need to do everything we can to do, to get us through as well as we can. When it comes to our producers, in particular in this case of raspberries, I believe that a good and positive surprise for all of us could be to confirm the arrangements and to make these arrangements even surpass, that 150 dinars are just the starting value and end up on something that is even better and more useful for our manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55717	Thank you. Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55718	Comrade Orlic, our goal is to provoke, of course, all state authorities and all relevant factors that can help citizens of Serbia. For us, nor the owners of the freezers, the exporters, are the enemies of this nation. It's also one of us, I think there are colleagues here who have their freezers and it doesn't matter, but we want not to make a single failure. The situation in the world's raspberries market is somewhat more favourable because Chile as one of the most serious producers in the first harvest had about 34,000 pounds, in Poland, the raspberries were destroyed and the chance of the raspberries in Serbia being paid something better. I'm telling you that on yesterday, there were those who produced and sold their raspberries and got a ransom note that says 10 dinars for one kilo. Of course, it's not the price that's going to be paid, but that's what's sticking to the stand-by arrangement, which is in no way good. Because that's how a game like that kills both the desire and the need and the ability of one who deals exclusively with it to earn something. We also entered non-quality production because it is not processed the way it should, and it is not processed because it is not known what the price will be, because very often it falls below the manufacturer. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55719	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55720	Just so we understand each other all the way. I'm just because there's a danger that, even if we didn't want to, it's a bad way of affecting the manufacturer's wishes and will, so to avoid it. To say, you're right, I just had in mind Chile when I said that he has failed the gender in many countries that have a significant impact on the world market, so, "roland", it seems to me, Mr. Risticevic can confirm or supplement, because he is directly dealing with this problem, he is headed by the competent assembly board, you know, so you're free to intervene if you need to, "roland" has failed in Chile, and therefore the expectation is, this is what Minister Nedimovic was talking about today, so that there might be a much greater demand for the ravine from our region than it is otherwise the case and that it could in a positive way form and prices. So with these 150 dinars, we say at this point, that's something that's satisfied with manufacturers and refrigerators and even exceeds that cost calculations you've given a little while ago. So it's a positive thing in the beginning if it's on that value. But that value could, once again, be realistic, but we'll see if it's confirmed by the market or not, but it's realistic that it will, that this value will be exceeded. And that's why I say it's good for people to know it and know that they don't need to worry in advance. Maybe we'll make it this year to be even more successful than usual. And my colleagues of the Agriculture Committee, I believe, if there's anything to be added, they'll do it professionally, as they do otherwise. I think we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55721	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55722	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the so-called "hand" raspberries is a demographic question. It has preserved many populations, from Ivanjica, Arilla, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Love, etc. Thanks to that manual raspberries, that population survived there. We have an interest in raspberries, but in the last few years, and we didn't want to prevent, we even subsidized, it was raised twice as many so far as it was. We, ladies and gentlemen, have made Poland and Chile ourselves. I was particularly against it, but you can't stop people from subsidizing it, raising big plantings in Vojvodina. Then the higher quality raspberries with the sex and the polka mix and then you lose a little to quality, and the quantity surpasses the market, or you can't sell as much as you produce. The solution, in my opinion, is that we recommend that agricultural producers also be warehouses. So, that they have storage facilities and that's how we solve the question and roadblocks, etc. If they don't just happen to make money in the field, in the raspberries, that they can make money in packing, processing, selling. Mostly they can get off the market a certain amount of goods and sell later. Well, if they lost something in production, then as warehouses, they'll make it. That was the solution, I must remind you, that in the Chances, farmers from the state got a ten thousand-ton cooler. Unfortunately, they sold it. Instead of being a factor in the market and thus removing surpluses, they sold it. That is why my proposal was on the Committee, and there are other members of the Committee, to enable them to be warehousers again in the future, but to prohibit the state in a certain way from alienating such an object, so if the cooperative in this area fails, that some of the next ones operating in that area have the right to store raspberries and to influence the market. And one more thing, the state continues to subsidise fruit material, gulf systems, anti-building nets. If we intervened in the market, we would violate the SAA, in doing so would question some of our other export products, and CEFTA, which we also sign, are not Albanians, we cannot prevent the unprecedented quantities that come from Republika Srpska and Montenegro, which may not be quality like those in Arilj, Ivanjica, etc., but in doing so, the main instrument should be storage and that farmers with their cooperatives can be users of the storage facilities that the state should enable them and give them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55723	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55724	Ladies and gentlemen, there's almost nothing better when we talk about competition than the debate that's been going on right now. In a theoretical sense, we could understand Chile, global competition, domestic competition, Vojvodina, other districts, warehouse problem, competition between different levels of hierarchy, and then what do we conclude? Competition is a very awkward thing. At the moment your report arrived, when there is a serious problem in the world in competition, when countries that were once leaders in competition become protectionists, those who were protectionists today become leaders of the global economy. My advice to you, since you have a surplus in funding organizations, buy 100,000 copies or 200 "Capital and Freedom", Milton Friedman of 1962 and have everyone read and talk about competition and talk about the market. It's a free market Bible. Serbia was not fortunate to know everything about competition, not today, not two years ago, never. The 19th century we ended with a monopoly of one dynasty in almost all economic areas, and the time between the two world wars of the monopoly of the second dynasty in public procurement, since 1946, has not been talked about free market and competition. That is why Serbia needs education, and this education cannot come from Serbian economic solutions, because they are never good. There is a classical economic theory, in competition and freedom Milton Friedman, it should be studied and the Serbian government does so. We are hearing about the macroeconomic parameters of the Serbian government, they are indisputable. You cannot say that the standard of living in Serbia is not good if your GDP is growing if you have 270 thousand new jobs, if foreign investments are 4.1 billion, in 2018 3.6 2017, if inflation is 2%, as never in Serbia's history. Well, how bad can it be? Competition is equality without agreement, it's competition and it's a definition, there's no other, no equality without consent. It's freedom, it's economic freedom, actually that's all, because you can't have freedom if you don't have economic freedom, and you can't have economic freedom if you don't have the right to choose. And you can't have the right to choose if you don't have the competition. I know competition is a faceless thing, it doesn't exist. The question is whether competition is ideal for you to ever arrive, but you have to strive. To go back to Milton Friedman, because it's the Bible of free competition, because it's the Bible of the market and I mean the Bible of the economy, because if one of the most read economists of the 20th century, one in two, with Adam Smith, the most read economists who have the highest number of secondary data, then you don't have to run away from it, you don't have to invent hot water. Those thoughts should be accepted and quoted. I'll quote. When it comes to competition, Milton Friedman says, "You can't say that the market is not an ally of consumers." Where you don't have a market, where you don't have free competition, you don't even have a free consumer. That pleasant projects are never more effective and effective than statesmen. Private projects are, in fact, always better, more efficient and functional. Consumers better than civil servants know what their interest is. When the wrong consumer he pays with his money. When a civil servant is wrong, we all pay. When the state interferes less with the relationship between consumers and customers, i.e. manufacturers and bidders, it looks better for both. There's seven of them, I've got five. They look very simple, very simple, they'd just all accept them, but it's not like that. They were written 60, 70 years ago. At that time, in the eastern part of the world, self - administration, socialist production planning ruled. In the west of the state of prosperity. In the '90s, the story with the east is over. Today we watch the welfare states slowly end. The main problem is the lack of respect for competition and the free market, as competition and the free market are above each other. Those who once were, to return, to the global economy today introduce protectionist measures to China and India, and India and China advocate a global economy, because it is a matter of competition. Milton Friedman, simply to say two of his solutions that today in the congregation is here, a question of education and a question of taxi drivers. Milton Friedman said and suggested back in 1960 that education could be financed on the basis of vouchers by giving students and students vouchers, and they would give private or state schools to those vouchers of their choice. They would make education better, more efficient, students and students personally responsible for their education and personal satisfaction. Milton Friedman tells cab drivers, or any licensing and licensing, that it is, in fact, the closure of the branch, or the closure of the business. When you close a branch and close a business, to translate, you reduce competition. When you do that, you collect a favor. It is more expensive, inefficient, inefficient, and those in the branch earning extra profits because they have a license. Competition is the key thing to fighting corruption. Competition is a key thing for better and different Serbia. If you don't know what competition is then these younger generations to remind me that in the 1980s we had a problem with some basic life supplies. Somehow we didn't have them then. Sugar, coffee, I remember. Some other years later we had a problem with gasoline, reasons irrelevant. The main reason for this is the lack of competition. It seems pointless today when you talk about it, but it's all settled by competition. The Serbian Parliament has this possibility, your Commission has the opportunity to regulate competition legally. Competition isn't one decision, it's not your surplus, it's not that one company has 25% and the other is 30%. It's your day-to-day operating part. You are here, the Assembly is here to support you, but our mission and vision is for the idea of competition to be primary in every area, regardless of the right of ownership. Because only competition for a small country such as Serbia allows more exports, more products, economic growth and development, that young people stay in Serbia because they have a chance to drive a taxi and open their private clinics that will be paid by the State Health Insurance Fund, their private colleges where they will receive vouchers. Competition is the basis of everything. When they don't realize it, big countries find themselves in economic trouble. Maybe our role is pioneering, maybe this speech of mine is completely different from this Assembly, maybe it was always a different story, but freedom is an economic thing to fight for, no matter what the price you need to pay, because it's the future of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55725	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55726	You've made a good right, at the last minute. So, as for the current views of some colleagues from their free speeches, which is a referendum, that this epochal establishment is preventing the fight against unfair competition, the establishment of your commission in 2006, the amendment of the law in 2009, it's simply not true, because here in this National Assembly in 1922, I saw the first Act on the Protection of Industrial Property, in 1930, was passed the Law on Indemnity Competition, and my first parliamentary mandate began in the Federal Assembly in 1996, and that year we passed the Anti-Monopol Law. We had an anti-monopoly commission and later when the SRS was part of the ruling coalition in 1998, we even proposed the chairman of the commission, and it was a respected professor of the Faculty of Economics and then Dean Slobodan Angelkovic. So it's not some newspaper. Now the only way to access this business may have changed, some changed circumstances after these DOSs arrived at power and put judges under their direct control, and I'm saying that because you can't do this job in quality and without any political influence until as long as the Administrative Court and then the other more judicial institutions are subject to political influences, because all these restlers, and they are 99% of DS and their satellites present in these courts. So, what happened now, Mr. Obradovic, and now your associates need to know, and that's what poor Serbian citizens know? In the meantime, it was created, which is nowhere in the world, a new cartel, a cartel of private contractors, executioners who have completely adjudicated and suppressed the work of courts, because they are those who charge, who judge, who confiscate, who confiscate property and entrepreneurs and businesses and individuals, rich and in the right sense create a new caste, I don't know how else to call it. That's why we started the initiative. Here you are, first of all, a citizen of Serbia, to sign our initiative and put aside the Law on Private Executors, because in such a situation, we can hardly expect it to work more effectively. Citizens must know that you, as president of the Commission and your associates, when you file a report and when you make an appeal to an investigation and a solution, the Administrative Court decides. Should we remind the citizens of Serbia of the famous Salford case? It's really a saga that lasted nine years. They put under the position of all other milk buyers and after you received one dispute, they complained to the Supreme Court and then it became the Supreme Cassation Court and only nine years later was the confirmed solution of your Commission. They had to pay, I think, about three million euros. So there are also positive examples that you have reacted as in the case of famous shoes, and today it is not clear to the citizens, because many are forced to buy their children, because children ask for this, that the shoes produced in Bangladesh, Vietnam and other countries of individual companies that have a license cost a few dozen dollars, and in Serbia a few hundred dollars. Normally, this investigation of yours has led to "N Sport", "Planeta", "Djak", and I already don't know who has to pay at your expense, into Serbia's budget of 45 million dinars. But here, Mr. Obradic, the greatest danger comes from the so-called. hidden cartels. How do they do business? You can't reach them without the Ministry of Finance, the ministries and local self-government if they won't cooperate with you, and they're investigating public procurement. Here's a simple example. Public procurement for the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, the Nis Clinical Centre or Belgrade for certain medical equipment, or most often what is needed to treat patients. The bidders agree with each other. They make cartels. One, another, appears, determines the prices, and then we come to these clinical centres, these hospitals, and those medical institutions buying more unfavourable and unquality equipment than those that could get on the market because these things happen and then we put in a position of unfair competition on certain producers because we have a case. It is a public secret and it can simply be prevented by greater efficiency or by doing so simply, when disputes come before the Administrative Court, which is now simply impossible, because constitutional amendments predict that absolutely no connection will have to the Assembly in selecting the holders of judicial functions, that these gentlemen should be trained to know that in this situation when this judicial process is carried out, and before that, your investigation should have basic economic knowledge, because there is not enough law in itself. You know what bothers an ordinary citizen? Here, said Mr. Sreto Peric, a colleague of Mircic as an outright representative, the citizens wonder how it is possible that the monopoly itself is not punishable. He's only punishable when there's a breach of procedure. Then the citizen says this raspberries and the one who has fruit and the one who has vegetables in Leskovec. Wait, how am I so unprotected? Now we come to when will the state be the best solution? Well, why haven't you done it so far, gentlemen? You have cooperative projects, freezers all over the place, so ransom prices. You conducted that investigation. I looked at that report back then. You said you didn't have any concrete evidence of cartel existence. You have no evidence, but they exist, as there are these cartels in public procurement. I don't have much time. So we shared it for our MPs in this context, but I will look back at another problem, namely the procedure, now whether or not you can respond, which is ongoing, regarding Kargo and their business in the Serbian and Serbian markets and this, on the other hand, the taxi cartel that is being created, it is evident, and the inability of this company to meet the needs of the potential 400,000 users. It would be the same as if you said "Viz Era" - you can't if you have permission or if you want to and if you want to do better business, because some other company has three or four times the price of you. You said, Mr. Obradovic, that you were acting in accordance with the law, but just so we know in accordance with what law, do you just comply with the law on your business, because there are several laws under which you must act and make sure that people... You can't stop anyone from choosing a carrier. It is also unfair competition in health care. You can't stop anyone from being treated wherever they want, and then the state has to pay for it under basic health insurance. There's no more time. There you go. So much to start with. My colleague will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55727	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55729	Thank you, Chairman. We have today a report from the institution that has been working for almost five years in full capacity, and I must say that as the previous president of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have had the opportunity to see how this institution worked until the elections of this Council by 2014, and how it works today and what the results are, in fact, the work of this Commission when it does not work and when it works. By 2012, we had the situation that this institution had been working under the authority of the president who had been on sick leave for more than a year and a half. This authority gave various members of the Council, who made decisions of strategic interest to the Republic of Serbia. When I say out of strategic interest, then I'm talking about the question of injury to competition, complaints from certain operators on the market who fought for a particular market for their niche in which they would function, it looked like this. If "Imlek" and I don't know, Subotic Milklers, have established their interest in functioning and overcoming certain percentages in operation, i.e. they occupy more than 50 percent and 60 percent of the market with their goods, any small or large company that complained about their work, it simply lost the process. Why? Because the Commission, which has also made such solutions, which would benefit, for example, any small producer or large but domestic, has come into the situation that the Commission, which should protect the interests, namely all producers on the market, have the same approach, if it were to appeal, means the court, or if the court had simply taken its decisions, would cancel all decisions of the Commission, and that means that those decisions for which the Commission had made that they should pay damage to the concept of certain financial resources for why they threatened competition, imagine the court had decided to return the money to these private companies, such as the ‘Imlek’, which was then a Subotic Milkler, which was within the consortiums run either Miskovic or a certain American company. What do I mean? So by 2012, you've had 12 of the 16 court proceedings that the simple court has disputed, solutions, the Competition Protection Commission. You had a simple monopoly of certain political centres in which the Commission itself worked in the function of individual centres of power. When I talk about power centers, it's the centers of financial and political power by 2012. By 2014, we had failed to make a certain change to this call because, first of all, we had big problems when it came to the procedure, making decisions that would have been implemented, so we had to go to amendments and amendments to the law, and only when we had made amendments and amendments to the law, then we practically, as a certain congregation majority only in 2014 had a public competition, we had a public conversation, so within the Committee with all candidates, we gave proposals to the Council members, and only then here in the plenary room we discussed and voted on it. Now their work has proved to be people who are really from the profession and who have been led to do some sectoral analysis of the market and when it comes to trade, means an analysis of market retailing and when it comes to the analysis of certain sectors of energy, even when it comes to the biosector of milk and milk products. Just because we had a bad experience as a state in this matter. So the money of Serbian citizens who were to be defined in the budget was returned to private pockets by 2012. Why am I saying this? Because now, when you look at the finances, when you look at how much money, in fact, on the back of those who have damaged the competition, who wanted to have monopolies, and based on the work of this commission, over a billion dinars have so far made revenue on the basis of a solution that the Competition Protection Commission has started to do its job from 2014 to today, in fact, the state of Serbia has earned. It is a concrete income and concrete effects, and when we talk about those indirect effects, it should be said that they are much more important than money itself. Why? Because the moment you set up the market to work and to compete with companies on the market, the fight, that game, shows that you are then practically reducing the prices on the market of many products, but you are opening up the possibility and becoming acceptable as a company for the inflow of foreign direct investment. What the state of Serbia has gone through through its economic reforms, through fiscal consolidation, is one great pain and nudity which, of course, has seen through the backs of all Serbian citizens in that we have much to change, but what is most changed is exactly the awareness of those who invest, as well as those who want to participate in the capital market when it comes to Serbia and retail and others, the banking sector and the energy sector and all goods and services sectors. It has shown that we have to deal with standards that apply to all markets, including the EU, including the Russian Federation, but also to God for the markets that are here in our neighborhood. It is part of the Western Balkans, which are not members of the EU. Why am I saying this? Because I would like to know, given that a presidential initiative, Mr. Vukic, was launched on 17 April to set up a forum for the protection of competition between the Western Balkan countries and the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development initiative. How far did this go, since this is our proposal, means Serbia's proposal? As far as it came with this, as apparently this commission for its work proved to be one of the institutions that had well understood its work, took the profession into its own hands, was also supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state, but also by the assembly majority through committees, the committees responsible for its work and showed that it could do as it suits the institutions and that it corresponds to the one to whom it is responsible, which is the Serbian Parliament and the MPs. So the increase in the number of concentrations reported in fact shows that we have progressed as a state, because if we say that in the last year the concentrations that were approved in the shortened procedure amounted to 158, it shows that this is many times more than it was until 2012. When you show, when you see on the basis of which all the chapters participate in working with the European Commission through working groups, the Competition Protection Commission, then you see in fact that this is Chapter 8, which is the protection of consumers, in fact, most important to us, so we would like to know and as far as we are in that part when it comes to negotiations on this chapter, because it is of great interest to us, that we know how much we as consumers are protected. Not only have we been able to pass this law that every consumer has the right to certain advertising within six months on any goods and that now simply manufacturers and traders cannot behave arrogantly against all of us consumers, because we are consumers in every part of it. I'm interested, so how is the Commission and how far has it come as far as these initiatives are concerned to change the different part of the legal solutions? The part that is very interesting is the Law on free access to information of public importance where you, as an institution, also give a kind of opinion and a proposal, especially the part relating to the Constitutional Court's initiatives. These are some three issues that I believe Serbian citizens should hear here, because if the European Commission has properly assessed your work, then the citizens of Serbia should also see what these are concrete benefits for this good work as institutions. In any case, in the voting day and as a member of the SNS and as part of the ruling coalition, I think we will all unanimously support your report. I think it is also good that we have fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups who may not have thought it was the institution that really showed its step in its good work, so perhaps in the end these debates will change their minds and, also, in the day of the vote, support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55730	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Dr Miloje Obradović, President of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55731	Thank you. As far as the forum is concerned, let me say, in which the Serbian commission would be the centre of the Western Balkans, that's a good thing. To be honest, it's better for me than someone else, and it's a good thing we got it, it's good that the European Commission said it and it's good that they confirmed Croatia and Slovenia in writing, too. That's not easy. It wasn't easy on their side. So, it's good. I also informed the Presidency and you in the Assembly, the resolution committee at the time when we started working on this project and I informed the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for other things they have, let's say, a broader concept than what our competence as the Commission is, we must consult when it comes to the state policy of the Republic of Serbia, as we have now received from the Federal Russian Anti-Monopolitan Service a request to support them at the Unhted, we have addressed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Instructions, because such things seem to exceed what is our jurisdiction and that we must consult with the competent state authorities. It doesn't affect our independence. On the contrary, that's how we view independence, that we have to comply with state policy, because that's our job, because we're a state institution. It's about that. We expect it to form quickly. The thing is, it's a concept of what it's going to look like. There will be a centre in Belgrade. How will these meetings be held? They'll be at the level of the president from the region and I think it's going well. And again, it's a good thing we're from Serbia, which is not a centre in Slovenia. First of all, it's an honor, and second of all, I'm always more comfortable with that kind of information. As regards Chapter 8, there is nothing more for the Competition Protection Commission to add, neither to take away, nor to answer any question or doubt. I'm telling you again, I never let you, even when I'm in a meeting in Brussels, I don't let us know anything. No, I don't. So we don't study, we perfect ourselves. You know what, it seems to me that sometimes we're a little bit of always in a subordinate position, so as we learn, we learn and we don't know. No, we know, we're just perfecting. That's my position, and while I'm president, that's how this commission's gonna be. As for the third question, yes, we have a problem with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. In what sense do we have a problem? We have under Article 45. Data protection. Is it the data, so when it comes to the initiative, we have protection of identity? So if it's a person, if it's a legal person, if it's a physical person, we have protection of classified data. Someone's gonna direct the initiative, they want to protect themselves, they don't know who did it, or we have the protection of business data, which is the business secret of a particular company. So if everything is available, then I don't understand, what business? There's no business if you're all open. So we protect the data and the companies that are in our process and we have this problem that the law on the availability of information from public importance sometimes doesn't understand this area. We can't deliver business data, I don't know, who bought the hardware or business data, a business plan for Jellyzara, or, I don't know, for RTB Bor. I think it's our obligation, to protect the data, and that data is protected, and they're protected now. You know who can see them, protect themselves with a solution, and that's it. However, the Law on the availability of information of public importance has not been finalised. We have an initiative by certain entities under the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of our law, or Article 45. However, we believe that the Constitutional Court will do its job in accordance with the law. The lawyers know better how it works. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55732	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55733	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, right now, we still need time to get used to these parliamentary procedures, given the new system of work in the National Assembly, and this time now exists in these last three days regarding these three reports of the bodies that were in the National Assembly. When we talk about protecting competition, therefore, it is understood that the normal state and health situation in a market is when there is healthy competition, without monopolies and without cartels, and the question is, is that the case in Serbia? First of all, one very large source of our problems, unrelated only to the topic we are talking about today, is that for 19 years we have been unspeakably meeting all the conditions that come from the EU, in all spheres, both in the economy and in the judiciary and in social affairs, in foreign policy, in all areas. And, whatever the proposal or directive is, the job of people who are in power, both in recent years and today, is to explain to us all why it is good for us, in addition, of course, what comes from the EU. They've been doing it in continuity for 19 years. What we could talk about today is a famous SAA, unless I'm wrong, which was signed 10 years ago. First, one thing, what is currently our relationship as a state of Serbia and the EU is that competition exists and the situation is right, if companies, i.e. companies that are eligible for the EU and Brussels get jobs here in tenders, and when they get others, then it's problematic. Many times we could see Mrs. Mihajlovic, who, as a minister of traffic, criticised public firms dealing with the construction of road infrastructure and came from some other parts of the world, not from the West, i.e. from the EU. It's nice to hear what the Competition Commission says now. There's a report here, it's fundamental now, it's seen that it's been working on, it's written thoroughly, it's okay to explain. But we, as we did during yesterday, as before, are just fulfilling the form. So absolutely nothing is done to intervene to be so-called. unfair competition prevents it. We have bombing announcements about the construction of the new Preljina-Pojate highway, which will not be in the tender, will not be in a public competition, so that we can determine what the conditions will be and choose the most favourable performer for the project, but will be a leks specialist for the American firm Bechtel. Well, is it possible that only they know how to make roads? Well, it's not the end of the 19th century, it's probably 2019. Today is the fact that the most developed companies, even 430, seem to me, of the richest 500, on that Forbes list, are registered in Shanghai. It's just that today is such a fact. And we're still acting like it's something that comes from the side, i.e. On the other hand, the EU, the United States and the West in general are less quality and therefore we are not comfortable with the engagement of such companies. Now the Competition Protection Commission can make fundamental conclusions that make sense for the overall functioning of our economy, but what it means and what it means if the National Assembly adopts such a single report, and we ignore the specific and obvious problems that we have today. As far as the SAA is concerned, it has brought our agriculture into a subordinate situation compared to the EU. We have come to the situation that spray farmers are uncompetitive in relation to farmers from exports, i.e. from imports. We don't see the problem because it came from the EU, as if it hadn't happened. How can we even talk about competition in Serbia if nothing is to prevent such a situation? Here in this report, the title "vision", which is a word that I don't know what it means and what it means in this report, what does this vision mean? I thought it might refer to e.g. He made a man to whom he was so destitute, out of effort and heat, out of the valley, or out of the sand, that it was a lake, or that it was water. The only thing I know about that context, and what it means here is a vision, I don't get it. The SNS are getting it. ) Thank you so much for distracting me. At the first point, it says - without a compromise fight against cartels, abuse of dominant position and all other forms of injury to competition, and that is fine, and immediately contradiction at the next point where it says - continued work on meeting the obligations undertaken by the Stabilisation Association Agreement, through further harmonisation with EU rules and best practice in the area of competition protection. These two things are collapsing. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and without a compromise fight against cartels and dominant positions are in collegiate. It can be either one or the other. The question now arises – what is the task in the field of competition protection? Is it uncompromising to meet and bring our legal system, so-called by harmonisation process to EU requirements or is it a protection of competition in Serbia? There is also a big problem that is periodically only present in the public, in this very period of the year, and that is the problem of the raspberries and the refrigerators. The refrigerators themselves can determine the purchase price of the raspberries and always be according to their internal arrangement, always at the expense of the manufacturer. We only think of it when these people come to protest or when they block roads etc., and we don't see the problem, because if we saw that problem, then I guess something would be done to solve it, even before the season started. It's just that someone's memory can set the price of the raspberries. What's this about? As far as another field of action is concerned, where the executive authority and the legislative authority seized part of the jurisdiction of the judicial authority as early as 2011, and the new parliamentary majority of the calls since 2014 confirmed these amendments and that law, which is the Law on Public Executors. To be clear, everyone has to pay what's due and, if it's too late, someone has to pay it with reasonable interest. One brand-new branch, it cannot be called esnaf or caste, it has grown more into the mafia, such as public executioners, are able to determine everyone who is what, how often, without notifying a specific debtor of their unfulfilled obligations, to the extent that they buy out flats, therefore, properties that have been seized from persons who have not paid their debts. On these after auctions, when these properties are sold, these properties are purchased by persons connected to the execution chamber. How can we not see the problem here? Is it possible that it's a legalized robbery, i.e. Recruiting with all the network of customers on these auctions that are being organised and that we do not see the problem, and given that it was once a state income, therefore, the cost of execution, while a judicial executioner did so. That as effective as it was, you could say it wasn't, but the state had to work on the efficiency of it, and not that we think, if the private does it, that it's in itself better, then we have the situation we have today. Fighting a monopoly position. As for the example of Belgrade on water, I can agree, what kind of land was it, the space was nothing like anything and the need to do something there, and then is it natural and would any country interested in doing something? So, to sign up a contest, so if someone logs in, maybe someone has a better idea than those who got Eagle Hills, maybe someone has a better solution per project, etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It can't be an argument of what it looked like, what it would look like. All right, I agree, but there are some procedures to be respected. With all this in mind, as well as the Fiscal Council, and for the Competition Protection Commission, I do not really see the purpose of their work and purpose, if they exist and act, and no one takes account of their reports, nor of the real situation in Serbia, but is still doing as it has been for the past 19 years, which is only by the will of someone from abroad, according to a directive, and the realization that this is automatically good if it comes from the EU, which is, of course, wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55734	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55735	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to the discussions of some of my colleagues and I don't think anyone understands the seriousness of the work of a commission like this. Not only seriousness, but also importance, because we will always be able to base ourselves on the fact that it is for the purpose of protecting consumers, fighting monopolies, cartels and essentially affecting living standards and citizens. It's all true. I'm not going to do anything about it, but it's important that it affects all economic flows in the Republic of Serbia, in one country. As irrelevant as it may seem to some, it doesn't matter, I can only remind you of the bad experiences from the Republic of Serbia when we didn't have good enough regulation and when the work of such regulatory bodies was at the beginning or simply the legislation we had in mind didn't fit the current economic situation that was in the country. In my opinion, a commission like this should have been set up before the privatisation process of the social sector began. Let's get this straight. A lot of people are pushing for privatisation. I haven't heard anyone speak against privatisation. We would avoid many of the ugly things that happened to us, not only ugly, but also very bad, and we would not have had such serious consequences, as was the global economic crisis from 2008 to 2012, 2013, as long as it was at its peak, and we would not at all be in a situation where a group of hoods, exploiting the lack of legal regulations and using the fact that the country was then led irresponsible, and rich and corrupt politicians, to enormous wealth, and not only to ruin the state, but to every citizen individually, and in more ways, through the closure of the enterprises that were the subject of privatisation, through enterprises in restructuring, through various businesses that were engaged in the service, through capital prices in the Republic of Serbia and at the end of inflation and the loss of the value of national currency. (Milorad Mircic: Theme. ) Talking about the subject will make it clear to some. If they had known earlier, they might have decided their political discussions differently. As early as 2005, one of the criminal activities in the Republic of Serbia was launched. At that time, there was already a retail chain, which was called, I think, "Tempo" owned by the Delta Company, or Mr Miroslav Miskovic. Now I call him a gentleman, I'll give him a real nickname later. They started to open formats of large commercial formats, especially in large cities. They participated at some competitive price to start a serious project in 2004 or 2005 to take over a serious trade chain called "Maksi". At that time, as far as I know, the law has not yet been applied, because it was at the beginning of the application, the Commission may have been founded, I do not remember having a little more than ten years, almost 15, is the only regulatory body that regulated this takeover was the Securities Commission and no one else, absolutely no regulatory body. There are various suspicious transactions through the purchase of shares from small owners, etc., that at one point in the process, which was illegal to me and which today is suspicious, and which the then C Market Director Radulovic could tell about, but was obviously first prone to Spain, and when it was too late, when he was seriously ill, he was able to return to Serbia, there was a takeover of "Maxia". This already with a retail chain that has a "Tempo" is becoming seriously covered by the Republic of Serbia's market. And now we can talk about monopolies about selling goods -- it will be sold at this price, at that price, etc. However, it is also important that goods are obtained because when you have a retail monopoly, you also make a monopoly with all suppliers, regardless of whether they are importers, intermediaries on the domestic market or domestic producers. In one such situation, this new chain that controls the Delta completely begins to suck up the capital of the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia, every supplier, every importer, and by using its monopoly position on the market conditions the supplier with prices, deadlines and other fees to sell its goods. It went even to the point where he conditioned the supplier to especially buy a place on a shelf on which he would sell his goods, so-called goods. Positioning goods, and that's called rackets, because a store service doesn't mean that. Since it's a fine successful businessman, and I think it's a simple speculator and a mangup, not only did he not respect the usual but the ractarian conditions he set for his suppliers, he continued to blackmail them in further business, which is that although he received exclusive non-payment deadlines of 90, 120, 180 days, he did not pay the goods. Through the courts, he was very well protected that he could not be subject to prosecution and in all of this he was sucking up the capital of all companies, letting him in his further craft to enrich his company, and suppliers... The SRS are getting it. ) Is this what the defenders of the character and the works of Miroslav Miskovic get? I think they're getting it. Thus, suppliers had to lose, i.e. the funds they used to purchase goods and sales, and the same goods to the company “Delta” to make up for business banks. Should we talk about what banks were on the market then? We played a little bit – she used to give. In this capital sucking, these were only consequences for suppliers. Now we come up with consequences for the whole country. When he had to pay for that stuff, he had to pay for it. Now watch out, when he promises to pay a few days before that goes the company's pro-facture, daughters who are most often in Romania, Bulgaria, Somalia or Cyprus, for importing goods and services. It's being delivered to business banks, and based on this fabrication, I'm talking about high values, a few-tenths of a million euros, there's a drop in national currency. He buys foreign currency from his suppliers' money that he doesn't pay more than half a year. It is then that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is struck because, through the loss of value of national currency, he loses part of his standard of living. The SRS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55736	Just a little quieter. Here's a colleague of Arsic's. It's all right. Just a little quieter. (Natasa Jovanovic throws.) We can discuss this later. Just a little quieter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55737	Later suppliers, since they were in debt in loans indexed to them in foreign currencies, return credit rates that were much more expensive than before that operation by Miskovic and Delta Company. In order to increase its value, his companies, or the trade chain, because he planned to release it sooner or later, are moving into a capital sale process, but in order to be better sold he had to amend the Law on Trade and under that law he had to make a study on the assessment of the impact on competition if the trading formats were bigger, I don't think, 500 squares, it was a long time ago. So, even if someone wanted to compete with "Delti" or "Maxie", however, they were not able because the study would always be unfavourable for that new investor. When he sold it to Delez, you know what happened to the law? It's changed. It was returned as if that obligation did not exist. In order to protect itself from the illegal export of foreign currency from the country in 2010, it seems to me that this is exactly the year when "Maxie" is sold, the Foreign Exchange Act is changed, by which you never have to import goods and services for paid imports into the country. So much for how important the work of a commission like this is. Not because of the EU, but because of Serbia. I'd like to ask fellow MPs from the former regime, they all knew this, all of this was discussed here, what they voted for such laws? What have they amnested Miskovic for the crime he committed, not only towards the state, but towards every citizen of the Republic of Serbia? Or they participated together, along with Tadic, along with Dilas, along with Bojan Pajtic and all others, and they didn't care about the state or the citizens at all. We will support the Commission's work report because we believe that the Commission has results, that it should exist, that it is not a form for the EU, but to regulate something in the Republic of Serbia that benefits all but speculators and thieves like Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55738	Comrade Mircic, do you want a replica of my colleague Arsic's presentation? It's kind of weird, because you said you didn't want to have sex with your colleague Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55739	First of all, it is not right for you to judge Mr Arsic's speech and presentations. Does anyone know, understand or understand this topic is a matter of assessing who is sitting next to a small screen and here in this Assembly and personal opinion whether or not someone is in the topic. It's not right at first. At least you're invited to talk about whether someone is qualified or understood. None of you are different from me, so let's be clear. We can't talk about colleagues like that. We can do it in polemics. Secondly, I was simply surprised by that open speech and criticism of what he was doing, as you say, Mr. Miskovic. And where were you, Mr. Arsic, to warn that, under the pretext of Mr. Miskovic, how do you stress that through a speech, when Tomislav Nikolic was giving money, when he financed Tomislav Nikolic to break the SRS? Then why didn't you say - Mr. Miskovic, we don't want that money. Aleksandar Vucic reports Vojislav Seselj in The Hague that Tomislav Nikolic has received large amounts of money from Miskovic and that he himself has brought him another million euros, given by Stanko Subotic Cane, called the Frog. That's their party president now. You weren't in the mood for him at first, but you're changing your mind, which is normal. After Gabriel Principe, you're the greatest principle since you're alive. You change your mind, and now you're very close to Wolfie. Vukic immediately said that Miskovic is funding Tomislav Nikolic. We couldn't trace that money. You know what Tomislav Nikolic is like when it comes to money. So you were gathering into a solidarity fund that MPs provided for each other within the parliamentary group, so you personally told me that Tomislav Nikolic took it on weekends and never took it where he needed it. You spoke to me in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55740	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55741	Don't put things in my mouth that I've never said, and let's get it straight, just like it was cleared up about that money given to Tomislav Nikolic. And that, I ask another question – did it amnesty something by Miskovic to be arrested and processed? It certainly isn't. Bogomi did not amnesty him, he spent how much, I think, half a year in custody and was sentenced first degree and his son was convicted of tax evasion and on a very serious penalty, it seems to me that Milo Djuraskovic was there. So we owe nothing to Miskovic to protect him for that crime he committed and for what can be proven before the court and for what he was responsible for. If someone else didn't do it, and he could, ask them the question. But, the SNS, Alexander Vukic, former president of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, you can't amputate that. Not at all. So he's convicted. For us, that part of the story was over, found guilty, didn't help him. You can't bribe the SNS or the SNS leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55742	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55743	First a little help, college, I'm not amputating anything, I'm not a surgeon. Mr. Arsic, here to help you, collegiately, honestly, from the heart. The book of Miroslav Miskovic "I tycoon" came out, which is now a public document. I can give you this to read, not because it is an interesting reading, but because Miroslav Miskovic claims to have held a conversation with President Tomislav Nikolic shortly before his arrest, that he has a firm promise that Tomislav Nikolic will not be arrested. What's his fault? He gave Tomislav Nikolic, but he didn't give Alexander Vukic. Vukic is coming to a position where he simply wants Miroslav Miskovic to be remanded for all those charity contributions and it is Vukic who is going to fight Miskovic, at least be honest with him, and you know it. I know you have nostalgia, that this sincere first love, is cheating with Tomislav Nikolic, but Vukic decided that Miskovic must be responsible for what he did, not Tomislav Nikolic. There's a book, I'm telling you again, I'm gonna give you that book, I can't write you a dedication, and it doesn't mean anything to you. As time goes on, changes happen, Serbs who know, one day you can be with Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55744	Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55745	My colleague, I still choose the company I will be in, with Miskovic I will never be sure of that. What Miskovic wrote about, so he wouldn't be convicted. He can write whatever he wants, he can say whatever he wants, he's answering according to the law, he's being prosecuted by the authorities, so the prosecution and the court, and it's the merit of the SNS that we're asking prosecutors and judges just to do their job, nothing more, which they shouldn't have done while the former regime was, and what they started calling when we came to power, what to do in some case, do according to the law and finish it. If Miskovic was right and it is true, there are several ways to stop the criminal proceedings. One is an ablation, while it lasts, the other is a pardon. Tomislav Nikolic has not used any of these two institutes, so Miskovic is very much something I don't trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55746	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55747	If you don't get it wrong, I don't have the potential here for the role of Alexander Vukic or Tomislav Nikolic, and I'm least interested in what you say, Mr. Miskovic, but I expected honestly, colleague, that you would say at least part of the truth. Tomislav Nikolic would have abolized Miskovic, if he had dared by Alexander Vukic, but had weakened within the party, his positions had started to weaken, he was involved in crime, bribery, corruption, you too have already begun to turn your back on him, you who were the most loyal, you, Mr Arsic, who kept quiet while taking money from all of us MPs. So at one point, I don't know what happened to you, after all that happened, I guess a moment of regret or truth, so you're out front, not to say the name of the woman who was with me and you, told me that he took it on weekends and took it. Do you know the difference between what he was taking, what you were collecting and what you were in charge of and what he was taking, or what he was going to find in his hand again? Not at all. The thief is a thief. If you claim to be Miskovic, nothing differs from the one that Miskovic financed, and you do not mind going into detail, because you are not grateful to the clitor who financed you while you formed a party based on stolen mandates. It's a burden to you. By telling you right now, I don't want to go further, you have a great burden because of it, we know Serbian radicals, but, Mr Arsic, you and Tomislav Nikolic must carry that burden. Don't be surprised, it's like that in your life, something when you're being followed, when you're being bribed, when you're being devious, it's been following you your whole life. This is a public sphere of life, you're exposed to a court of law. You can say whatever you want now, but you didn't have the courage, you didn't have the courage to tell the real truth now, and I'm telling you what's true, not to accuse Miskovic Aleksandar Vukic, but to accuse Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55748	Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55749	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, I will no longer report to the line, because I will no longer participate in it. I have no burden or past, anyone can throw, can do whatever they want, can hate Tomislav Nikolic because he beat Boris Tadic in the presidential election. Well, it seems to me that all this anger is that the DS lost power by defeating Tomislav Nikolic in the presidential election. Did some of them lose money, I'm not going in there right now. No one argues that the victory of Tomislav Nikolic has been replaced by one bad, corrupt furniture and a thief who led Serbia until 2012, as no one can dispute that the reforms implemented by Aleksandar Vukic are in favour of the state are in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is also that the courage of these reforms should have been carried out, not just from the bench. It was courage to let prosecutors do their job and to have the mangoof like Miskovic answer in court. Some others did not have that courage and are now pretending to mention Miskovic, when they were silent while he was the most powerful. They can't object to me, because I also attacked him for Delta Electric in Kragujevac, which some of them kept quiet and kept me from talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55750	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55751	Thank you. We've heard a lot of exposure on the subject of competition today. There's no such thing as free competition. From France's "lese fair" to the globalist-hegemonist U.S. with their liberalisation and globalisation of production, it was only until then until China became economically stronger and began to apply the same methodology. Now America is closing in front of the competition from China. Also, America closes itself to competition from the Russian Federation in terms of the possibility of obtaining cheaper gas and applying double standards. What can we talk about competition, when there is no connection in the reproceeding of agricultural producers, not even raspberries with which we could be nationalally competitive. Therefore, as long as raspberries producers are not equal participants in the phase of processing, storage and plasma, they cannot be competitive. Secondly, at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, I have so far made at least 50 proposals, none of which have been adopted. How can it be, say, a competitive agricultural producer who pays a TV subscription for a counter in a barn? It's nowhere in the world. He pays a TV subscription for a numbering on a lamppost if he uses electricity to irrigate orchards, vegetables, fields, etc. If there are, say, seven such numbers, times 12 months, times taxes and all. How can a competitive citizen be compared to a party, because you say that citizens are the bearers of democracy? The citizen cannot participate in the elections, he can only be the voter of the party's staff nominated by the party's top candidates. And the voter can't be his candidates. How can we be competitive when people's kitchens and sick children are funded by text messages? If, per each MP, 3,000 euros per month from the Republic's budget and belongs to the parties on whose lists are selected, let's turn the situation around, so that people's kitchens and sick children can be financed from the budget, we also have in mind what is being increased is the separation for financing and treating sick children, and I welcome that, and that parties are being financed by SMS messages. How can we be competitors, when a new law is now being drawn up when all the facilities that have not been reported by farmers, the owners of the villages, will have to pay for not having previously reported them, stables that do not use them, etc., 70% of the estimated market value? How can they be competitive if we come up with a proposal to charge a TV fee over an electric dial for just a year until a budget solution is found, and then after two years we raise that fee by 200% and we haven't found a budget solution? Who are we building a national team for the rebirth of the village? Do you care for the migrants? So when they come in line to fill empty villages, they'll get benefits. As our population lived that sought equal conditions, we could not think about the competitiveness of our farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55752	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. My friend, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55753	Because of these, I have to admit, very interesting remarks on the subject of parties, citizens, participation in elections. It's for those who may not have followed it so closely, an old and unscheduled version of a political program of something called the Dvori, you know. It's a story they told until they decided to register as a political party and we've heard it many times. The parties are evil, they shouldn't exist at all. How can citizens come to terms with these evil, terrible parties? There, by chance, and Dveri, Bosko Obradovic before everyone, and then everyone else with him, and Mr. Ševarlic, it seems to me, somehow came to those electoral lists that he was just about to speak about what the Dvori were saying until they became a party. How did you do that if it's impossible for an honest citizen. I believe you consider yourself an honest citizen, don't you? That old Dverry program, just so you know, has its deep roots, has its reasons. We were here quoting what Bosko Obradovic himself once wrote in Ljotic's "New Spark" when the text was on the subject of multi-party, parliamentaryism, multi-party democracy or democracy in any way. Then he said that, as that quote was, a container of all human desires, it was the worst thing in the world. So, he used to write it there in that newspaper where Dimitri Ljotic was praised, and I think I understand why you evolved today's memories of that period, because today in the newspaper "Lemond diplomat" not on the other side and on the third side came out the text of a man who was himself a member of the Serbian Dvori Movement from 2004 to 2009, so he signed, Vladimir Veljkovic. He recalls that Bosko Obradovic and such attitudes were not only when he was young Ljotic but also when he was one of the elders or even the chief elder of Dveri, in the book "Serbian Testament", it seems to me in 2007, he said that parliamentary democracy and party pluralism in Serbia was a foreign social organisation formed in harmony with different spiritual essences. So, and then he was against democracy, against participation in the elections, against parties and against parliamentaryism. What's all this for? Well, literally nothing. How much is it worth? We have already seen this on the Bosko Obradovic case, until the moment when it is able to use other thoughts, attitudes, ideas in a more concrete way. Where is Bosko Obradovic today? Well, at the head of those with their mouths full of democracies, but above all they cared about their pockets, I mean Gilas, the former yellow company, and his branches. When Bosko finds company with such people, there are no more stories about politics or parties, Ljotic forgets and gives up easily. We get to what people really care about, full pocket, good suit, good car, ladies and gentlemen, and everything remains what? Just here and there for a memory or an emotion that comes with an inscription published by a former speaker or a recent member of a parliamentary group who did not abdicate software in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55754	I thank my colleague Orlic. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55755	Thank you. I was talking about party structures and I'm not making a difference between those that are majority and those that are minority, or positional and opposition. The principle is the same, finesse may be different but to me as a non-partisan MP who entered as a non-partisan MP, the only possible way for a citizen to enter, not only in the Dveri list, you have, if I am not mistaken for five non-partisan MPs, and I have suggested that non-partisan MPs join in the club of non-partisan MPs and that we change each month according to the function of the president of that parliamentary club. I didn't come across any response from the other side. If we're impartial, let's be impartial, everyone can maintain their approach and plead whatever they want. I have no respect for any positional or opposition party. I am also the president of a parliamentary club where I have asked that of 3,000 euros per month on the basis of my parliamentary mandate, the Dvori receive that I give at least 50% to hire two young people, an economist and a lawyer, to hire and assist me and train them. I didn't come across an understanding, it's for party infrastructure. It's probably the same with you. Now I'm personally functioning without any support. When I go to the Bureau to prepare the sessions, they say, we are not authorized to help you, just to answer specific questions and to direct you. I don't think there are more than a million members of all parties in Serbia, both the positional and the opposition, and there are six million and some voters. I call on citizens not to kill every subasy in the future but to choose their best representative and to make a list because otherwise 72 municipalities and four cities in Serbia would not have MPs precisely because of such a partycrat system. Whom will the citizens of 72 municipalities and four cities turn to for help when they don't know who their MP is. In my view, therefore, the only democracy is for citizens, by election units, to elect and recall all their national representatives from members of the council of the local community through congregations of municipalities of cities to MPs in the province and republican parliament. Then there wouldn't have been a situation that was present right now, if Kurt had gone off and rode Murth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55756	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55757	So, if I understand correctly, when it comes to elections, then the list of parties is fine, the system is not controversial, and when it becomes an MP, and then the head of the Bosko Obradovic parliamentary group cancels your request to receive funding, then neither the party nor the list nor parliament is good, etc. I appreciate this recognition we just received that Bosko Obradovic decided to keep that money to himself, we knew that, but thank you for telling the citizens to listen. It's absolutely irrelevant in the whole story, and the point is, someone can be called an independent, free, whatever MP you want, you know that we already have clubs that are called, one of them called a club of independents, the other one is a club of frees, the third one is, I don't know, a club of non-classified, it's irrelevant. The bottom line is there's no policy to be represented, so these people don't mean anything special, if we want to be honest, whether they're in a party, whether they're in a movement, what they're called yesterday, how they're going to do tomorrow. You know so many examples, so many of them have been exchanged, they don't even know for themselves which group they're in, and so does your Mr. Chevarlic, Dveri, who doesn't exist anymore, and for that very reason. There's no such thing as being in front of who would care and who would represent herself. There's no politics, and the motivation here is not politics, we've just come to a conclusion together, and that's money. Money from the very beginning to the very end. What did the last ones who came out of the Devere MP group say that you were in until yesterday and that no longer exists. Bosko Obradovic and the people around him also took that money you're now talking about that they didn't want to share with you, but they also took the campaign money that they received in the exact law of the defined purpose and the internal money of their earlier movement, and then the party. So, they embezzled it all because they were interested in it from the very beginning and that's why they're not here today, and that's why they're probably shoulder to shoulder with the yellow tycoon, Gilas Dragan. What will attract them more, better and more significant someone who, and the whole public in Serbia, has managed to provide a good 500m euros. Is there anything that people who don't have a policy once more, and money likes a lot can interfere better and more significantly. I'd say the answer's more than clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55758	Thank you. Replica, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55759	I don't think I've ever said I asked for money for me. I made it very clear that I asked for money to hire two young people who would serve me, help and train me. How do you propose we train the staff for this life here? I think doctors and magistrates from law and economic college would be too pleased to have the opportunity to participate in the preparation of discussions and material from a session in the National Assembly. That's the first one. Secondly, I've never taken one dinar from the Dver in a pre-election campaign or after that as an MP. Find me a document that I took a dime from anyone, not the Dverry. Please don't abuse me. I'm on the list as a non-partisan candidate and I'm a non-partisan candidate. That's what I've shown x times so far, and I've shown it for this session when and as an opposition MP, I put down my card after 40 minutes of waiting because you couldn't get the quorum to start the session because I thought it was illusory that this number of us sat for 40 minutes. It wasn't the first time, and I've done it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55760	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55761	Just because I don't want Mr. Ševarlic to leave this session angry that we didn't understand each other, I didn't say he got the money, on the contrary, I agreed that I really believe him when he said he asked Bosko Obradovic for money and that he didn't give it to him. It absolutely works for me with my performance of the character of Bosko Obradovic, anyway, with everything we know about this man. Where there are clear testimonies that the money has been embezzled, it was not addressed to your name and name, Mr. Ševarlic, by your colleagues from Dvera this morning, but at the expense of Bosko Obradovic, Jugoslav Kiprijanovic, and perhaps you can remember, I cannot now, as the chairman of the Dveri Executive Board is called. So they, along with some others, and there those who were in the Dvori until yesterday, Radojcic and Nogo, seem to be accusing me of embezzling all this money, of being abused by themselves. By name and by name, they list those people. And this president of the Executive Board, you may remember, I can't remember the name now, he was in favour of recognising independent Kosovo, right? That's what these Radojcic and Nogo also claimed when they revealed the whole story. That's what I'm talking about. Another thing, that's one story we've heard. We also heard from Bosko Obradovic - the parties are not good, they are, as he said, the plague of our society and our system, they are the cancer of our people. He said that because he was educated as a young Ljotic on those ideas and those attitudes. And as we can see today, that's what this "Le Mondu" says, and that's what he said and said in the Twors. But then he decided that money was more important than those things he considered to be his own personal attitudes in the youthful age. Since money is more important, he has gone beyond all else, became a politician, a party leader, participated in the elections, and all of this was the worst possible thing in the world. He made a list on which, in fact, you participated, in these elections, with the party, with no one else. And that's all I was saying, nothing more. And he concluded that the essence of the money, from the very beginning to the very end, was those with Bosko Obradovic who followed him and those who would recognise Kosovo, as they only acknowledge. The evidence is that today they are shoulder to shoulder with one Gilas, with one Jeremic and Boris Tadic and with Borko Stefanovic. Do you know the only good thing about these people's moral qualities? I don't know. I only know those who concern themselves with their pocket. When you're done with them, you've shown, just as Bosko Obradović has shown, that you're only interested in money, only money and nothing but money. Politics, the parliamentary system or democracy, those are just words that may sound interesting at some point. What's important is what? The sound of him clinking in his pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55762	Mr. Chevarlitch, I think we've made everything clear about the money. Only if you have something extra, which would be interesting, and it's about the electoral system? No, it's very interesting this proposal of an election system for extra-party personalities, maybe we should hear that too. Here you go, Mr. Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55763	So again I'm potential-- I've never asked for money for myself, which you don't accept. Secondly, I don't think it's correct for you to deal with Bosca Obradic, who is not present here. Use it on television or call him when he comes to the congregation, and then you two face attitudes. Don't do this over me. I've never stood up to anyone through Bosk or anyone. That's not correct. And take care of how you behave. As far as Kosovo's independence is concerned, we saw it at the session when we discussed what a frantic applause was received for the idea of demarcation. Is this non-recognition of Kosovo's independence? Second, what kind of oaths have we taken? Have we taken oaths with a preamble on Kosovo in the Constitution? Then what can we talk about about the Brussels Agreement, whose acronym -- it took Serbs Serbian. This was published by the aphorist from Pančev in 2014. What can we talk about when disbanded congregations of municipalities, Serbian, in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, and not within the legal deadline prescribed, are called elections by the competent authority of the state, but are handed over to the Separatist authority at KIM. If you want to open that topic, I'm ready to stay tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55764	Comrade Ševarlic, we opened the topic when submitting the Report on the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Right on the line... (Miladin Ševarlić: My colleague treated me with respect.) ) He did not honor you, and I ask you to address him in the way he talks to you, with respect and respect. I didn't realize in his statement that directly what he was saying was directed towards you. (Miladin Ševarlic: I will read the stenogram. Always, mate, but I don't have time to read the stenogram. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55765	Seeing as he's still determined to be angry, Mr. Shevarlic obviously doesn't understand why. Mr. Ševarlic, who has advocated the recognition of an independent Kosovo within those borders where Thaci, Haradinaj and others see it, is the president of the Dveri Executive Board, therefore, and the organisation to which you say you do not belong. Here, I believe you, don't think I don't trust you. But you were the People's MP of their MP group. So, their chairman of the Executive Board, according to today's members of the presidency, that's what I said. Is that a fact? Yes, it is. Is it in the paper that you read? It says. Ask these people what is not clear to them. What was given in this National Assembly was a frenetic applause when we discussed Kosovo and Metohija? Well, of course, the out-of-human struggle and the results that Alexander Vukic is making, with the aim of helping our people in KIM; all that he has managed to provide for them, and what they have gambled with today's shoulder-to-shoulder comrades from the Daveri parliamentary group today and everything that makes them stand out, as he said here, to win the Serbian people at KIM, but also to win the state of Serbia. Both the Serbian people and the state of Serbia have always cared about both that Gilas and that Jeremic and that Tadic and that Stefanovic, and they have shown all of this by means of works, with which your fellow partners from Dveri came yesterday. So that's what we supported here. If you want to talk about it with them, well, just tell them to get enough courage, which people would say, the guts to get together, to come here nice, to sit right next to you and tell us what they have. But they won't, and you know they won't, and you know why they won't. Because they are today, just like you, either free or independent or non-classified MPs, I don't know what they're called. Today, as Bosko Obradovic no longer has a parliamentary group, he would have had to line up nicely with those 20 and several MPs, who are no longer members of any parliamentary group, to arrive in time, to sign up through the office for a word, to speak, and that is for him only the imaginary leader, the works of the Serbian opposition, absolutely unacceptable, it is below each level. It is a real and realistic criterion of how much support he has and how much his political relevance is right now. So, from that truth Bosko Obradovic flees, not me. I'm here, you know that very well, every day from morning till night, so whenever, eventually, he gets the courage to get into this room, he'll find me safe and we'll talk about everything, very nice and open, just like now with you. Among other things, we will ask him about the 500 million Gilas, which seems to glow with gold glow and whose magical attraction is much greater and more significant than the importance of Kosovo and Metohija and of the importance of parliamentaryism, democracy, anything related to the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. If we understand each other now, I believe that you will agree literally with everything I've said, if we're not, no problem, I've told you today and any other day, from morning till night, that we're explaining ourselves here, to me that you know it's right for the people of Serbia to see well, to hear well, to understand all these words that we exchange here, it's, first of all, good and useful for our people. Among other things, it has an effect, you saw in that Kosovo and Metohija a few weeks ago. Politics represented by Aleksandar Vukic, who according to the Serbian lion's Patriarch, fought for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, received 90 per cent of the Serb votes from Kosovo and Metohija. As far as these others got, Mr. Chevarlitch, it's an answer to absolutely every question you possibly have, if you have any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55766	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55767	Dear President, Mr. President of the Competition Protection Commission, other members of the Competition Protection Commission, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the SNS certainly accepts the report that your Commission has submitted, because it has indeed been built in accordance with a professional methodology, according to all those segments and parameters that exactly one quality report should contain. Before I move on to your report, I must say, first of all, that it is a notorious lie that folk cuisine in the Republic of Serbia is funded by text messages. It is true that in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, there is an appraisal for the work of people's cuisines at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Also, as someone who had a political economy during his education, more students in the first year of college when they learn the political economy know that competition is competition. She can't be free or free. The market can be free and the SNS is committed to freeing the market, which we insist on and which is ultimately our ultimate goal. Now I'm going back to your report. I am very pleased that in your opening statement and the introduction of your report, although here in the report, I have not seen your report, but I thank you for your potential and for saying that the Commission was formed in 2005, that it started working in 2006, but that in fact it only received a full mandate in 2014 to change something better in this country. In 2014, Alexander Vukic, today's President of the Republic of Serbia, served as Prime Minister. Of course, something I noticed in your opening presentation, that was that by 2014, or by 2012, you had some equipment that was probably not even unpacked, and was not even put into service. Of course, the citizens of Serbia should regret it, but what can I tell you? This has happened in many other areas. This happened even in the most sensitive area of our society, which is health care, when new appliances were purchased, placed somewhere by corners and only by the arrival of SNS on the power of these appliances were put into operation. I'm glad you've strengthened your personnel capacity, which is that you have a business space, which you have 53 employees, although, as far as I can see, the systematization provides for something greater. I am pleased that with this number of workers you will achieve fantastic results and that you are named by the International Commission of the EU as the best Commission in Europe. It certainly has delegated us as a country to be a centre for the work of these and these commissions in this part of Europe. Also, I find it very important that you cooperate with international organisations. I also find it very important that you make bilateral co-operation with many countries, primarily from the environment, with those former SFRY members, but also with many other countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, such as the Russian Federation, such as Japan, etc. But what I would especially like to praise in your cooperation and to recognize somewhere very significant from the aspect of gaining new knowledge, new skills, is your memorandum of co-operation with the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, with the Faculty of Economics in Kragujevac, with the Faculty of Economics in Nis and with the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. Introducing students through your seminars, through your educational workshops, but also allowing them to carry out their professional practice and perform precisely on your commission, will give young people the opportunity to get acquainted with work, with methodology, with recognising the protection against corruption, etc. And I would say that somewhere as the most significant kind of cooperation. I have recognized this somewhere as the most significant form of co-operation, because the knowledge of our young people is something that Serbia needs, something that the SNS is constantly pushing for, and something that is ultimately an integral part of the SNS policy that young, educated people stay here in our country and contribute to our country's economic progress with their knowledge. Of course, and as far as funding goes, you're completely independent of the funding part. Of course it's good that you publish publications. From what I've seen, you've published nine publications last year, but of course it's very important that these concentration solutions, which is in fact an obvious example of investment coming into our country and they're bigger than ever in the last four years, unlike in the period until 2012, when the country has been devastated in every possible respect, when more than three thousand factories have been sold, so that after that some sales contracts are broken, when around 600,000 people have lost their jobs. Now investors come to our country, open factories, employ people, and all of this contributes to the economic progress visible in all parameters, and to the reduction of public debt, and to the reduction of unemployment, and to the surplus that we record for the third year in a row, which is, of course, all thanks to the responsible policy of Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS and its coalition partners. So what I'm saying is that as far as these solutions are concerned, that's the revenue from the concentration solution, that they're the biggest in you, and it seems to me that something about 97% covers those revenues. Of course, for every commendation and it is entirely in agreement with the law that part of the surplus income when you provide the reserves you return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that is what counterpart Aleksandra Tomic said and how much it is in the money section. I have to go back to the period since 2012, when most of the country was ruled by monopolies, robbers and when corruption was in the country. Corruption eats the tissue of every country, and above all, economic tissue. I have to point out the wild extraction of optic cables, the School's optical cables. He is, by the way, the owner of the cable operator SBB. First of all, he pulled optical cables across large cities and above all around Belgrade in a completely illegal way. He pulled those cables off an electric net, from the lighting poles, from the roof to the roof, from the building to the building, from the house to the house to have as many subscribers as possible. However, he did not leave that money in the country, but was out of the country and, of course, put it in some black funds. That way, he could only operate because Belgrade's mayor was Dragan Gilas at the time and since then their joint tycoon group has started, because Dragan Gilas during his time as Belgrade mayor has devastated Belgrade by 1.2 billion. He's rich. He earned a personal profit by doing the mayor's 500m-euro job. He usurped there and some garages, of course, in those garages, the garage is located in Pojarevačka street, in downtown Belgrade, in the part of the apartment building. Well, since he never cared about the citizens, but only for his own interests and his own pockets, he built a fire escape for the tenants, and for himself finely, he provided a separate exit. Of course, this is something that's been and won't happen again anyway. Serbia is a country of decent citizens. Serbia is a country whose citizens respect work, order, responsibility, discipline. Serbia is a country that deserves better quality of life for every citizen, at which Alexander Vukic and SNS work every day. In voting day, we will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55768	I thank my colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55769	I thank the chairman. Respected members of the Commission, respected MPs, competition as a business fight process between companies plays a central role in fostering economic growth and development. The aim is to ensure the benefits of consumers. The level of economic development depends on the level of competition protection. The market is a space where capital, goods and people move freely and there is a development of different business relations and activities. It is therefore essential to regulate the market as free. If competition were to be violated, products and services would be more expensive and inaccessible. Business activities were illegal, and the consequences would be economic and consumer. The main thing is mechanisms that will prevent monopolitical action. Competition is tied to the free market and affects productivity, product quality, price reduction, better market offer. It promotes innovation, contributes to faster economic growth and affects a better economic environment. Thus, the need to preserve it is important for the development of the economy. The Competition Protection Commission effectively implements the competition protection policy as well as the application of the rules for the benefit of the whole society. It works to achieve full legal certainty for market participants. It uses all available legal and economic instruments to provide protection. The Commission's task is to ensure equal conditions for all participants, more competence, and better business for all. Serbia is monitoring the dynamics of developing competition protection in the EU, harmonising its standards with EU standards. This applies to restrictive agreements and prohibitions of abuse of a dominant position. The Commission is working to find distortions of competition in all those sectors that have a direct impact on living standards. Therefore, for the benefit of consumers and for the general benefit of society. Everything that has proved to be effective in the legal frameworks of many countries, rules that improve this area, Serbia has implemented. This led to an increase in the quality of market freedoms, as well as opportunities for new players to enter the market. The aim is to ensure the protection of competition and create a more favourable business environment. The main thing is the competitiveness of the economy, further economic growth and attracting foreign investment. This will allow for an increase in economic growth and a better standard of living. We had a chance to see what Serbia looked like when the competition didn't encourage itself because of the interest of individuals, cartels. By 2012, we had individuals who did damage to the economy with a monopoly position that was granted to them by the former government. They used a dominant position and trade influence. The effects were looting and destroying businesses and businesses. The situation today is different. Examples of telecommunications companies are the creation of a good vision framework and a policy to enable better competition, more efficient operators and lower service prices for all consumers in Serbia. Serbia is richer today for over 180 factories. In Nis alone, from the city I come from, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic opened six new factories. The value of these investments is over 80m euros. These are investments that have inhaled new life in the economy and that have raised things to a higher regional level. Conditions have been created for opening over 7,500 new jobs. It's never been invested and built in Nis again. Economic stability is the key thing. The growth of all economic parameters is a vision and a goal most deserved is Alexander Vukic. In 2018 alone, 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment were recorded. Progress on the Duing List speaks enough about the ease of business that is recorded year by year in our country. The results of this government are GDP growth, employment growth, business development, equal operating conditions, competitiveness. That's what shows that we've created a good environment and that we've created a model for attracting investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55770	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. The word has a folk letter from Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55771	I thank the chairman. The respected chairman, respected members of the Competition Commission, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, a report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process published by the European Commission confirms the correctness of the objectives set by this commission ahead of us. Serbia has made good progress when it comes to rules in the area of competition protection and which has been defined for the EU's path. However, what the EU says is not the only criterion for us. We are measured by the fact that removing irregularities fills the Republic of Serbia's budget and how much the business climate in Serbia is improving. Also, here you can see significant progress in the last five years, which is also evident in this report. Through regional co-operation, we express our ability to work together in different fields, and in this case in the field of competition protection, which drives the whole of the region in the EU and towards their standards and European practice of co-operation, because there is no effective market without competition. The same starting position for everyone, and then the success of market participants depends on their ability, a fair market game is something that is important for the position of preserving the market. The state should be an impartial judge who must not influence the result of the game, but the rules of the game must be respected. The competition commission should protect the domestic economy and we see it, working more and more successfully over the past five years. From irregularities exposed to the regional or international market and must have full independence, such as have a Constitutional Court or, for example, Just like the NBS. We can reduce the negative consequences of competition through appropriate laws, as well as their consistent application, especially in the part relating to the protection of weaker and the establishment of equal rights. Thus, the laws on the protection of the free market and the Consumer Protection Act complement each other, while at the same time preventing trade chains from imposing high margins on consumers for cheaply purchased products. Instead of seeing competition as enemies, we can view them as a source of incentives and useful information. They help us find out who our weak ones are and what our strong sides are. They help us focus on what we are good at, which benefits everyone and the individual and the company and society in general. We can learn from competition, and teamwork is increasingly encouraged in companies. At the same time, the environment is encouraged because teams compete with each other and encourage best results. Today, globalism is slowly changing and thus changing our view of the world. Business is no longer just about trying to make as much profit as possible, we leave a mark on everything and everyone around us with all our business. Our relationship with our workers, our customers, our suppliers, from day to day, we shape ourselves, our businesses and our environment. That's what this Commission is helping us with. The only constant effort on these changes will be the best regulator of negative ones, while at the same time encouraging positive effects of competition. As the products are hit, so are impact and service. So I'd like to say something about the media, which has a big impact on broad public opinion. I would like to talk about it because of the importance of this subject, although it has already been spoken of by my colleague Marian. Under the Convention we signed, under the Law on Electronic Media, by the Law on Advertising, cross-border channels not registered in REM are not allowed. Also, it is simply amazing that N1 television is not registered in our country, and it would have to be registered in REM, because it is a way that it pays compensation and that this state of Serbia benefits from it. Since it is known that TV is owned by Dragan Šolak, whose cable operator is SBB, which has 55% of the market and which has become a base platform for attacks during the Koperniks acquisition negotiations by Telecom, we saw false free market fighters at work, who conducted a really big media hack on competition. According to the Convention we signed, but also under the Law on Electronic Media, according to the Law on Advertising, cross-border channels that are not registered in REM, and as I said, re-emissioning is not allowed, so we come to the fact that foreign channels insert domestic advertising without absolutely paying taxes. It suffers from the Serbian state budget. So there are violations of the international convention and, in fact, they are competing in black with domestic media registered in REM and paying... What I said. Since the N1 is not registered, so this rude violation of the law and competition, what would happen if the same owners bought the TV first or O2 and what would happen if all the TVs in Serbia acted like N1 and how damaged the budget would be, since we know that big money is spinning here? For example, the Slovenian Competition Protection Agency estimated that Slovenia "Broadbend", owned by Dragan Šolak, cannot own the media company "Propuls", as this would lead to the effects of the concentration on the television advertising market, the right to buy sports content, as well as on the market for children's television programmes. They reacted correctly and protected their country from abuse. That is how we expect that it should always be mildly reacted in Serbia as well. In the end, I would say this, as some conclusion, that we must fight all the shortcomings of insufficient, unfair and illegal competition, which undermine society and the community in which we live, only by consistent application. It is also a Commission mission to protect competition, provide equal conditions for all participants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the benefit of society in general and end-users, but looking through concrete treatment and determination of injury, and their effective removal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55772	Thank you. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55773	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the Competition Commission, respected citizens, will briefly sum up what we have heard today about the Competition Protection Commission, its mission, its tasks, as well as the contribution of effective application of the policy and the right to protect competition in improving the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, all that contributes to improving the country's economic growth contributes to the well-being of its citizens. That is why I believe that the existence of such a Commission is fully justified at the stage in which Serbia is now in a phase of rapid development. The market is ruthless and often in the race for as many consumers as possible to create unfair competition. For these reasons, there must be criteria and rules governing competition on the market and, of course, someone controlling whether the rules are respected and whether there has been a breach of competition. The Commission report shows that the Commission is carrying out unannounced controls, which is indeed commendable. What I would also like to commend is a special telephone line and e-mail intended to report information and data on the existence of a competition injury on one of the markets in the Republic of Serbia. All those wishing to submit an initiative to examine competition infringements may contact the Commission, and the Commission shall, on the basis of the data obtained, analyse and process the request and thereafter inform the applicant of the outcome request. In doing so, the identity of the applicant can be protected, which, of course, encourages people to report freely. I would also mention the European Commission's report on Serbia, which found the Commission's progress in protecting competition in all segments. It is stated that the Commission owns administrative capacity, i.e. quality experts, who conduct procedures on suspicion of competition infringements. The Competition Protection Commission also has a very successful co-operation with all relevant factors affecting the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about domestic co-operation, there is co-operation with the National Bank, ministries, agencies, the Business Chamber of Serbia, the Tax Administration, etc., as well as with the business and professional public. There is also an enviable level of international co-operation and credibility that the Commission enjoys in relations with international organisations. From what we heard today, it is clear that the Competition Protection Commission has made a major contribution to creating a competitive fair market, which is directly reflected in citizens' living standards in terms of its improvement. Also, I support your further work and your activities, as well as your transparency in the work, which has led to the trust you have gained both in domestic and international circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55774	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Andrian Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55775	Thank you. The Honored Chairman of the National Assembly, respected members of the Commission, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, is today on the agenda of the Report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission for 2018. I would like to commend the Commission's employees who went further to training and workshops for improving and modernising their business and related to the area of adequate competition protection. Why is it important to protect competition? There are several reasons. In particular, it provides for improving the economic efficiency of market players and the optimisation of resources, which seems beneficial to the economic growth and productivity of market participants. The tendering of the market generally affects the formation of lower prices, better quality and more diverse goods and services, especially for consumers, as well as the increase in production, i.e. the creation of sustainable jobs. Functional competition is a guarantee of successful European integration and the successful functioning of Serbia as a future EU member state. The successful institutional functioning of competition protection is therefore necessary in order to ensure equal market rules. The way policy is created and implemented is a key factor in the existence of competition as a driver of economic development, all in order to meet EU standards. It is evident that this report applies the best mechanisms in the current development of competition protection. The legislative framework for protection is clearly defined and in high degree in line with relevant EU law. It is important to stress that the business community is well aware of the rules on the protection of competition and thus create a healthy environment and atmosphere for attracting new investments and improving the current ones, all with the aim of making investors and potential clients happy with the more successful business, of course. Relations with international organisations, such as the UN for Trade and Development, Commission membership in the International Competition Network, intensive co-operation with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Hungary are part of this. The Commission is constantly working to improve co-operation to protect competition and establish close relations with the following countries: Austria, Bulgaria, Japan, Romania, the Russian Federation, BiH, Albania, Germany, Slovenia, Turkey and Croatia, as far as I know and China, of course, the contract is now signed. Among other things, on these topics, and on the Commission's plans, aimed at improving and promoting competition policy, met several times during the year for EU delegation chief Sam Fabrizio. Dear citizens, I would like to point out this way the significant support of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who thanks to whom we have a large number of investors in Serbia today's territory. Our country has made significant progress in the field of industry and the creation of new jobs, and all in order to make Serbia better and more successful after 2012, it is important to stress this, coming to the power of the SNS, has significantly moved towards development and progress. This is proof that Mr. Alexander Vukic, but we all fight and work for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have a difficult time ahead of us, but it's strictly justified policy, most importantly, we plan to fight, work and attract. We do not support lies, it is important to work, to show the people what has been done so far, and many see and know and will certainly vote for us and for the future. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55776	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55777	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Competition Protection Commission, today we are considering your work report for 2018, which should contribute, above all, to understanding, to respect and apply competition rules and by courts, regulatory bodies, market participants and their associations. This is particularly important in the context of raising the capacity of the Serbian economy, through strengthening competition, which is an important factor for EU accession. As a key objective in representation operations, the Commission has set the following, first of all, awareness-raising on the importance of protecting competition for the functioning of an open market economy and for the benefit of consumers, getting to know the public with the benefits of effective competition, the visibility of the Commission in public, which implies information on Commission powers, meeting market participants with competition protection regulations, as a prevention of injury to competition and not counting further. You did this well and in the voting day I will support this work report for 2018. I'd like something different. My colleagues already told the story, and you told the story. You're doing good. I'd like to talk about what the Antidot team did. It is the media network of the Western Balkans and I will present to you what they have said. They said -- a brutal campaign, which was led in the summer and autumn of 2018 against the leading people of Serbia's Telekom and the representative of the government in Serbia, peaked in the multi-year operation of an interestingly connected network of media and paramedia structures under the direct control of SBB, as the largest cable operator in the region and its owner Dragan Šolak. Thanks to co-operation with large investment funds run by US billionaire George Soros and former CIA director David Petreus, in just 15 years since the establishment of the Dragan Sollac business empire has reached a value of incredible $2.6 billion. A huge financial power and strong ties with powerful international funds have made this regional tycoon and its business empire one of the most powerful, not only economic, but also political actors in the Western Balkans area. The real power of the mentioned gentleman and the power of the aforementioned conglomerate became clear, not only from the fact that the School's firm managed to dominate the regional market in telecommunications, but also because on several occasions it was able to blackmail the governments of the region to result in concessions and the realization of its interests. The SBB development strategy was to destroy Telekom and take over the monopoly in the Balkans. As Telekom Serbia was a state-owned firm, it was the easiest to use it as a means of its own development. The fact is that Telekom participates in the market with only 15-20%, compared to the biggest SBB competitor holding 55% of the market in its hands, did not prevent the real avalanche based on false news and illogical structures, which preceded N1 television owned by Dragan Šolak, founder and owner of the SBB cable network, who made his first business steps by selling audio and video tapes in the 1990s in Kragujevac, and, after a number of partner ventures with famous investment funds that I had just talked about, which were managed by the US billionaire and CIA, today became one of the most powerful tycoons in the region. Making powerful positions and even more powerful allies, Solak has also put into focus the further development of his companies and the expansion of media-political influence, and in order to eliminate remaining competition on the market and the establishment of an absolute monopoly in one of the most profitable and fastest growing business branches. Although Solakova is a financial and any other power, it comes primarily from the SBB cable operator's income, its business empire consists of over 100 companies carrying out mutual financial traffic, thanks to which Solak optimises tax payments through connected persons, partially conceals his property in some companies. In order to minimise profits, cable house co-owner SBB Dragan Solak bought the country's passport, according to Malta, through an individual investment programme for 650,000 euros. According to information discovered by Malta Tudej portal, Solakovo's name also appeared in the documents of the "Malthean Papers" project, where he was mentioned as another millionaire who avoided paying taxes. The Maltese Paper project, run by the European Research Centre, which included the Malta Tudej portal, revealed to what extent they used the Maltese tax system to transfer their profits to the country and pay lower taxes than they would pay in Serbia. You're a disgrace. This is a bad example of practice. I hope we can root this out, too, with your help. We'll adopt the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55778	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55779	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the honourable representatives of the Competition Commission, the submission of the Report to the National Assembly is one way of meeting the principle of transparency which is of great importance in monitoring the work of this Commission. Except that MPs today will be familiar with opinions, statements, analyses that we can see in the report, on the other hand, create conditions for eliminating any legal doubt in Serbia's decision-making businesses. Thanks to transparency in the work of this Commission, it is easier to see what behaviour by companies is prohibited, i.e. what activities threaten competition. What I still want to point out is I always positively assess when an institution or body has a good relationship with citizens. The Competition Protection Commission has opened this telephone line, an e-mail intended for those who have information on the existence of market injury. This manner of communication with citizens also constitutes assistance to the Commission, on the other hand, which, on the basis of initiatives and information collected, can initiate the procedure of examining competition infringements and determine the facts that are relevant in each particular case. Let us also take a look at the negotiating Chapter 8, which concerns competition. It is one of the most complex in the negotiating process. There are many conditions that must be met to ensure lower prices for citizens, better quality of goods and services and a wider choice. It is these conditions that deal with Chapter 8, and then we come to our obligation to bring the rules into line with the legal assets of the European Union relating to competition and thus regulate agreements that are contrary to competition rules, to regulate the abuse of a dominant position on the market, but also state aid. It is precisely in these issues that you can see the great role of the Commission for the Protection of Competition. What we can see from the report is that our legislative framework is in principle in line with the legal assets of the European Union and that the sublegal acts are largely in line with the regulations and guidelines of the European Commission. We also see that a meeting of the Internal Market and Competition Sub-Committee was planned for the start of June of this year in Brussels at which the Commission was to present its work and the results of implementing rules on the protection of competition. Since this report has been made and delivered to us before, that is, before that meeting, it would be nice to hear more detailed conclusions from that meeting, simply to give us your impressions. In any case, at this point, I would like to remind the European Commission's 2017 report on Serbia's progress in this area, which found that increased competition policy representation activities and increased implementation in the application of competition rights. In this truly exhaustive report, there are many concrete examples of how she acted and how the Competition Protection Commission reacted. I will not talk about these examples, because it would take me a long time, but I will only point out the importance of our common goal, and that is a healthy competitive market in which relations between participants will ultimately result in a better standard of living for our citizens. That's what we should all be trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55780	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55781	I'll just do it one more time. Yeah, I was in Brussels on June 5th this year. We don't have any criteria, we don't have any conclusions. The European Integration Ministry delivered the minutes from a meeting in Brussels. As far as the Competition Protection Commission is concerned, they only confirmed at the meeting what I presented as my report. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55782	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55783	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr. Obradovic and his associates, it is my pleasure that as a member of the Committee on Business, which has already adopted this report, I can say that surely we here in the congregation majority will adopt a good report, especially when it comes to an independent institution which, once again, is a special pleasure to me, as well as to the DRI shares of some of the surveillance we have as a congregational majority and which is the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, which is that we have a mission and a vision of a better, rich, developed Serbia. It's the goal of all of us and I'm glad your body does the same. So you're working independently, but you're making sure that everything that's good is done and I don't want to, because it's pretty well said about the institution, I'm talking about the report and about you. But I would mention one part, which is the part that you have heard from many of today's speakers, which is that part of our media competition. There was a terrible noise when Telecom as a large company, as a telecommunications team, as leader not only of our national, but leader of the Balkans, Telecom has its own facilities in both Republika Srpska and Montenegro and for quality reasons, decided to wake up, not to be a sleeping giant, to offer more at that part of the media or media engagement. For a long time, there has been an epi-TV in Telecom, for over 10 years, but it has somehow been extremed and I have been a member of the National MP, not as a member of the Committee on Finance and Economy, but as a member of the Telecommunications Committee, etc. repeatedly clashed with the views and opinions of RATEL, then RATEL, why Telecom was neglected, and why the "Telecoma" capacities are given to someone else for free use. What's this about? Telecom's optics are without any contracts, without a sign, after all, it's not Telecom's, it's our national good, it's something state-owned, given SBB. Even the SBB didn't ask, but it got into our windows, it worked as he wanted, optical cables, or copper cables, copper cables pulled from the building onto the building, used the EPS's banners, and that's how he created the empire. During that time, Telecom was unable to offer a better and cheaper offer. We couldn't offer six months of one dinar, four months of one dinar because the nonstop was a notice and an explanation – so Telecom is big, Telecom is a monopoliest. He is not a monopoliest because as far as we know, the SBB has about a million and 800 thousand users, and Telecom has 700 thousand users. The SBB covered 51% of Serbia's market and Telecom 36. What is a frantic data "Telecom" is in large city cores such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac had less than 10% of the participation in the field and when we decided to bring in the state, because Telecom is giving its profits as a state-run majority company in the state register. "Telecom" is ultimately one big sponsor, donor of everything and everything, from disputed clubs through humanitarian actions etc. No one got anything from the SBB. Not even a tax is paid properly, as far as I can see. When Telecom decided to make two three acquisitions, where you gave consent not to disturb any relations, not to endanger independence, protect competition, raise a lot of noise and noise, why? Because in 2017 you made decisions and said – okay, we have three major operators, one is Telecom, the other is SBB, the third is "Ikom" can be combined, then no word has been mentioned, SBB and "Ikom", but under certain conditions and you gave two years of a certain ban, not even an increase in price. I know they've raised the price and you've responded to it. I don't know what that procedure is, but I know you've made serious remarks about that part. Now what? Those two years go out, those two years of parole, so they're probably in a lot of pain. What else is this about? Telecom as an operator for 10 years cannot already have Fox channels in its offer. For what? Because the SBB that doesn't use the APTV platform has taken, I'm going to say slowly, the license to broadcast these programs through the APTV platform, so we can't broadcast Fox channels, because they have the exclusive right to distribute in our region. "Telecom" has always asked for some favourable market conditions to buy that right, as well as to buy the right, what hurts most for all our citizens, which cannot watch the transmissions of our national selections, football, basketball, volleyball, etc. on national broadcasters. Why? Because someone took an exclusive right, bought it and instead of offering a national broadcaster to re-emission, wouldn't allow it, and we have one paradoxical situation for Telecom to broadcast the Champions League games, and everything else is broadcast by the SBB. Telecom has always asked under certain economic conditions for it to access that resource and that we can broadcast and that all Serbia can share all the information. It is not true what the United Group and N1 argues that if Telecom took over and took over the primate to prevent the information from coming out. No, Telecom is just trying to expand, that most of our citizens have the right to information. I would like you, or you already do, but I suppose the judicial authorities don't do it, what your pandan in Slovenia did, their agency has reached certain conclusions and ordered the company founded by United Group in Slovenia, and so does the company in BiH, to sell its right to broadcast these sports channels within six months, all 13 sports channels of the Sport Club, because they do not respect the very rules of competition protection and the administrative court, or as it is called Slovenia, it has decided in favour of the agency. So I think that time will come to us, that the court will judge as it should, that it supports what independent regulatory bodies bring and that we are all equal. In the end, I would only ask you two questions concerning the report. First, the report mentions the Commission's co-operation with other regulators and giving its opinion to regulatory bodies what kind of co-operation is and should it be extended? The second question is in the report we see, and that was very interesting to me, that the lease of business space is nine euros from VAT and the price includes the purchase of cleaning, electricity, municipal services, heating, etc. Is that a mistake or is that really the right thing to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55784	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55785	Thank you for your support, thank you for your suggestions. As for co-operation with other regulatory bodies, you see, we are an institution that works for all regulatory bodies and the quality of the work of regulatory bodies depends heavily on our quality of work. Is that the Energy Agency? Is that REM, the National Bank, everyone else, so we just have to cooperate with each other and that's our joint job. I can tell you that we've gone intensively to raise that level of co-operation. The first thing we did, I have to say it was the Anti-Corruption Agency, and the Commission, I call them to protect the bidders, they're called differently, but it's a name I can't get out of my head. In any case, we do, we try to raise it to an even bigger level, especially lately we've started with the Energy Agency because of specific things and fellow MPs who are in charge of it. So we're working together to raise this level of co-operation so we can do better and do a job for this country. As far as the lease is concerned, everything is true, six euros is with VAT at no cost, with all the costs of electricity, water, utility and the maintenance of nine euros from the PDB. We paid 15 euros. The state space, that was good, and I was glad, we got it in the tender, so we made a public call, the Serbian Bank called and we're leased at the Serbian Bank. The Serbian bank is more owned by the state, which is also good, but it is good not only for the price, it is good for the organisation, because of the very system of organisation of space. Another very important thing, it's security. In what sense is security? The security of the server, the security of the location, the security of the institution, because there was an army in that space, and today there's an army on the first floor, there's a bank on the second floor, we're on the fourth and we've rented part of the fifth. So we're satisfied, not only with the price, but with the conditions and because it's what suits us. Believe me, we have an electronic office, we have a data protection system. It's a serious story, especially if you don't let God leak the data. So it's very serious and it has to be on a serious level. This may not yet be understood by the name of the Competition Protection Commission, but when you look at an institution, I have to go back to serious institutions in the world, Europe, like, I don't know, the Korean Commission. Their president was with us, they have 700 men. It's a serious state, I agree, a major economic boom has been made, a serious and strong state economically, or, for example, the Russian Federal Anti-Monopolitan Service, which has 4,500 people. So it's a big state, but it's a serious institution, and it's been working seriously, even about 30 years old, federal anti-monopoly service, the Japanese Commission for 50 years, Korean 50. So, these institutions should exist and have to be socially useful and socially responsible and show the state and you, to whom we are responsible for our work, that we should exist. If we exist and we're independent, and whoever said we're sitting there and we're hidden, then there's no point. I didn't come to this place, I came, I got a mandate from you to make a certain result. That result exists and I'm satisfied. You'll appreciate whether it's good or bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55786	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55787	Dear Vice President, how much time do you give me that I can bring my discussion into line with time, or how much time do I have? All right, let's move on. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Your Honor, let me say, guests from the Commission and honourable Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will not talk much about the report because my colleagues well assessed the report and made any suggestions to improve certain things. Let me get a few things under control, though. As you said yourself, by 2014, there was a Commission for the Protection of Competition. There was, but only as an institution, and I totally agree. Without a certain capacity, that's what you stressed, and I wish our political ones were, let's call them opponents, to face opinions, to see if that's true or not. In other words, there was no work. Your commission has given certain results, which doesn't mean it can't be better. Of course it can, that's why we're here to make some suggestions and evaluate certain results. I am pleased that you have established co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and with the relevant assembly committees, as well as with representatives of the European institutions and the UN. I am also particularly pleased that Brussels gave a good assessment to this Commission, and the paper says that our Commission is one of the best in the region. Now allow me, dear Commission, to say a few words from my profession about competition. In science, competition begins to emerge, we have passed certain laws, but against this competition is exactly who are not here tonight. New people are reporting with new ideas, new scientific achievements. If there had been competition by 2014 there would have been no professor of the Faculty of Philosophy, Jovo Bakic was sitting at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade today. You know why? Because for the third time in this month he's been chosen as a doctor. There would have been other people sitting there if there were competition, who would have sat just once as docents worthy, honest, honest, moral, who would not have taught politics, but would have gone through political parties. When we're here, let me, I don't like to talk in my head, give a few quotes. Jovo Bakic, professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, gave the Master's thesis, stands on the University's site, believe it or not, not to be surprised and you respected citizens, quote: "The role of Pink and Happy in the creation and reproduction of the leader's cult and analysis of the host content of Aleksandr Vukic in the shows "Tough Word" and "Cirilica". “, ” finished the quote. I ask the question, can we compete with this? Is this a political mix-up? Can you imagine fellow university professors that this is master's work? Can you imagine fellow professors that I, as a professor of the university, gave students master's work a topic – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual prosacularism, scientific diletantism, the case of Dr. Jovo Bakic? Can you imagine if I had given it and what would have happened to the media domestically and worldwide if I or Dr Vlado Orlic, Dr Aleksandar Martinović and any of us working at the university? On January 17th, 2014 I quote this fine doctor, Jovo Bakic, as saying, believe it or not, "Alexander Vukic is an excavator, Angela Merkel," finished a quote. Is that a university professor? It's like I said, imagine that I said, as a professor of the university, that he was a doc. Dr. Jovo Bakić shitter Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. What would come of me? Is that a university professor? It's the one who was chosen as a doctor for the third time, as Dr. Zarko Korać retired as a doctor, and here is the MP, only once, said back three days that Aleksandar Vukic was a dictator, and for Irineja he cursed all over the press and said, "The dictator goes to the dictator." Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he doesn't mind going to another dictator in Montenegro, working at the university and taking money. Let him say whether or not he is. That doc. Dr Jovo Bakic said on June 13th 2009, I quote, "They made a barn out of parliament," for our parliament, "you have one who tortures, the other who throws up, the others laugh, it's a barn, it's pests," finished the quote. Even a leader who favors him says: “Send the word, ” that the horrors of others do not speak. On 15 January 2015, Jovo Bakic said, quote: "Vučić, can take with him both small and snotty," a quote concluded. Is that a university professor? Is that an insult? I'm not insulting anyone here, but I'm saying what they said and quoting. If he says this is not true, he and his comrades, those who spend a circus in the Republic of Serbia, I will not come to this parliament, but I will not pass Belgrade if they say it is not true. Doctor Jovo Bakic came to the Faculty of Philosophy on the Wings on October 5th, and he is still a third-time doctor. If there were competition, you wouldn't be a doc. Jovo Bakic sat at the Faculty of Philosophy, but some other people are more honest, more valuable, etc. Now that he's been elected for the third time and had no conditions for a doctor, here, I'm really congratulating him and asking him for conditions next time he'll have to choose as an extraordinary professor. Now let me say, and you gentlemen from the Commission remember well, you respected MPs, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, actor Nikola Kojo on 4 February, when these traveling circusers began in 2019, I quote: "If the protests fail, I am leaving this country," finished the quote. Look at the wonders, on 10 May 2009, the same actor Nikola Kojo said, quote: "People slowly realize that the protest from the beginning of the end was led by censors, with the help of various half-worlds, semi-innovators and works of students who trusted them," the quote concluded. I ask Mr. Actor who, as he says, is a man of congratulations, to fulfill his promise made on 4 February 2019. He said these traveling circus guys really failed. Let me just say who I don't want to compete with in this political life, with one man, which is Bosko Obradovic, called the people of bullying. I didn't execute, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, trespassing on the Republic Election Commission and assaulting members of the RIK. I didn't raid the municipality of Cave. I did not, nor did my fellow MPs, carry out an attack on Dr Alexander Martinovic on the Administrative Committee. I did not and my fellow MPs raid the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I didn't and my fellow MPs raided a police station in Guca. I am not also the MPs of the ruling party attacked journalist "Pinka". We did not try to raid REM, but Bosko Obradovic did. I, too, did not ask my fellow SNS MPs to fire on the president of the Republic and Prime Minister and attempt to invade the presidency of the Republic of Serbia. I did not ask my fellow SNS MPs to carry out a coup because we love our country. I didn't and my SNS colleagues raided RTS and tried to force the leaders to step down from the program. Dear People's MPs, respected by the Commission, while our President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, makes superhuman efforts to find a long-standing, fair and compromise solution for our southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, those of the Alliance for Serbia, in the form of a traveling circus, lies, half-truths, media attacks, muds by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his family, his father, his mother, his brother and SNS MPs. They forgot one thing. As long as it's more muddy, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia prefer it. Because citizens are turning their positive energy into its enormous positive energy, and vice versa, for the progress and modernisation of Serbia, for the future of our and political opponents of children and for the future of our country. Dear Commission, as you have heard, we will vote in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55788	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55789	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Competition Protection Commission, when we talk about the protection of competition, but also about the abuse of monopoly in cable operators, although to date the subject of the discussion remains the justification of the solution that cable operator can be the owner of the channel, we took away this right, and the tycoons seem to have allowed them to do so. It'll be interesting to give us the answers to the following questions. Do you see the problem with SBB as a dominant cable operator, with a participation of at least 55% on our market, establishing not only exclusive channels, but also signed exclusive contracts with individual foreign channels, with the sole intention of preventing "Teleko Serbia" from having these channels in its offer. In particular, when it comes to "Fox" channels, this is what counterpart Zoran Bojanic was already talking about, the SBB bought exclusive rights for non-use technology, IP-TV, with the sole goal of "Teleko Serbia" as a user of this technology not offering "Fox" channels to its television viewers. Are you familiar with the fact that the concession of the produced content by SBB under commercial conditions was denied only by Telecom, while the other operators on the market were made possible, that a cartel of private operators who shared the market, pooled capacities and all focused exclusively on the attacks on Telecom? In all this, these same SBB channels were given to all other cable operators without a problem, except Telecom. Because of SBB's business policy, Telecom Serbia has not been able to broadcast more attractive channels, such as Fox, Sports Club, Top Channel, etc., for which the company was interested. Do you agree that this was a school example of the abuse of dominant position in the television content distribution market and did you react as a competent institution? If so, answer us once more when and how, and if you are not, why? Are you familiar with the fact that the SBB registered most of its channels in Luxembourg and that it is doing a sales ad in Serbia, which is a direct violation of the law? Do you know if SBB even pays taxes to the state of Serbia for more than 100,000 total TV users from abroad who sell the contents of domestic channels? The public doesn't know that. Although hysteria has been raised in public against some state-run Telecom monopoly, the facts suggest that we have a private SBB monopoly on the market that has created a media concept so strong that it can wage war with the state. They use private TV "N1" to attack a competitor every day. ‘N1’ appeared as the PR service ‘SBB’. This is what they do in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they attacked the regulatory body and "Electroprivreda", as well as in Croatia. How is it possible that the purchase of Copernicus is much more valuable for Telecom than the purchase of SBB was for the BS Partners fund, which paid 2.6 billion euros for 1.8 million users, which is the price above 1,000 euros per user, 1,000 euros per user? Did it draw your attention and raise your suspicions that SBB, its owner Dragan Šolak, and his business partner, Dragan Gilas, were hiding behind the heist that focused on challenging and sabotaged business operations of strategic importance for "Telecom" Serbia? To make it clear to viewers, the campaign of misinformation and false news has used a wide range of manipulations and excuses to challenge the agreed work, and even the one that "Telecom" on the Serbian market is 15-20% of the participation is trying to take over the monopoly ahead of the SBB, which already holds 55% of the market participation. Was that real? I will remind everyone that the formation of United Media and the acquisition of former company Dragan Gilas "Direkt Media" Šolakova company United Group has seriously stepped into the production of television content. United Group has succeeded in uniting the largest internet providers and cable and satellite TV operators in the former Yugoslavia, with more than 1.8 million users. They include: as the first, "SBB", the largest cable operator and internet provider in Serbia with over 700,000 users, "Telemah", the main cable operator and internet provider in Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, "total TV", the first network of satellite television in Serbia, present in six former Yugoslavia countries, "NetTV Plus", the main TV operator via the Internet, United Media, TV channels "Sport Club", "Sinemanja", "Ultra", "Mini Ultra", "Case and Fishing", "Kas Media", the largest advertising agency on cable and satellite TV, turbo-folks, entertainment industry – "Grand Production", with a control package of Montenegrin cable operator "BBM". By buying out 49% of the digital part of the Swiss media group "Ringier" Solak became co-owner and the most visited information site in Serbia "Blic.rs". Finally, through related companies, Solak denied its own regional television "N1", an exclusive partner "CNN" with studies in Belgrade, Zagreb and Sarajevo. With this controversial move, the United Group has united the distribution and production of media content. Otherwise, in the leading structures of the regional media platform "N1" as a representative, Slovenian citizen Tomaž Jeločnik, director of the company "BL Media Group Limited", from the British Virgin Islands, whose real owner is Dragan Šolak. In 2015, the group owns Slovenia's Showmobile, which was the first time the cable operator took over the mobile phone operator. Since 2017, the owner of the most visible Croatian channel "TV Nova", whose evening diary is the most watched show in Croatia, as well as "Pop TV", whose Dnevnik 24 UR is the leading Slovenian information programme. All this time, United Group continues to expand its activities on fixed and mobile telephony and to swallow competitors such as "BHB", "Kable TV" Bosnia and Herzegovina, "M Cable" Montenegro, "ICOM" Serbia, etc. During 2018, United Media is authorised by the Competition Protection Commission to buy 100% stakes in the former company Dragan Gilas "Direct Media" in the markets of Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania, including approval of the company "Direct Media" for the purchase of Pink BiH TV stations, Pink Montenegro. The move, United Group, has seriously stepped in the field of production of television content. The ultimate goal is to establish an absolute monopoly on the market, in which SBB would be a dominant market player with a share of more than 90% in the market for telecommunications, media and their distribution. I find it really interesting to hear you comment on these allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55790	Mr. Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55791	I'll start with this part of what we said about channel distribution, that part is in the jurisdiction of multiple regulators, and so are we. So we're going to focus on this job, especially with RATEL and REM, that's about exclusive channel distribution. So it's one serious job, RATL's got participants with significant market participation and they took that part down. So, they let it out of control, and it seems to me they did it in 2018, or 2017, we'll check it out. As for this second part, that part, as regards buying media space, yes, we approved that "SBB" buy "Darrekt Media", but it was a conditional transaction, and that "Darrekt Media" buy Pink Montenegro, Pink Bosnia and there was about 20% market participation of the "Darrekt Media" so that they no longer have around 20%, 25% of the market in that advertising area. It's not dangerous. So, "SBB" dominant if I'm not wrong on the media content distribution market, that is, he's in this part of the cable operator. But we have on the Internet, so what's there is the advantage of Telekom and Telekom is much stronger than "SBB". So we don't have a problem, you see now that we're looking at the price of the package, we have Telekom, we have SBB, we see that now it's a serious competition. So, my colleague seems to know this part, that's where it agrees. So this part of it, where transactions were conditioned, when the Darekt Media bought what's called Pink BiH, Pink Montenegro, and what's called a cable operator, that's true and you're right. What we approved on this part was about 20%, 25% of market participation, it's not dangerous. We have competitors in this part, even I see with 19% competitors are Media Pul, Media House with 11%, Media Pul 19%, Media Job 7% and Pulik MMS 6% of market participation. So we didn't see any problem in this part, and I say cable operator, that was one long-term process that we did with this part when ICOM was done, we said that, I think, with 697 entrances or buildings sold, and he bought it "BeotellNet", if I'm not wrong, and I don't think I was wrong. So when we approved Telekom's concentrations, we had that in mind. Telekom has this part of the power on the Internet, it has this power of fixed telephony, but it's normal, they had telephony because it was dominant on fixed telephony, the Internet and what's important, which is that we had it in mind when we approved Telekom. Now, it seems to me that the other day, we approved the last Telecom concentration, and we don't see anything controversial about this part of Telekom. So when you look at the offers, I personally went to see these offers, in this case as a citizen, I saw that these offers are competitive, or that now what my fellow MP said before you, that Telekom now has the opportunity to mate in that part. As far as the channels are concerned, what you mentioned, we really need to sit there, with RATL and REM, and look at it, whether it's exclusive distribution, whether it falls under our jurisdiction or under the jurisdiction of other regulators. It's complicated, so we have to do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55792	Here's my colleague, Djokic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55793	Just a quick question. Did you and how did you protect Telekom when he performed the acquisition of Copernicus and when he was attacked and challenged in competition?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55794	Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55795	I signed the solution, I can't protect anyone when I sign the solution. The solution is just. There was a lawsuit against the court for our solution, and the court dropped the lawsuit. I think it's even final, but we had more lawsuits to tell you on the basis of, more, maybe a dozen lawsuits at approved concentrations, specifically on Telekom. I sign the solution, if it's in short procedure, I answer, and if it's in the interrogation, then the council votes on it. So, what I signed, I signed the solution, and I'm standing behind it, like someone behind it, and the court dropped the lawsuit, so we have a dozen lawsuits. I think more than half of it's been solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55796	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55797	I thank Mr Arsic, the distinguished representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, ladies and gentlemen, and today's debate is very exhaustive when it comes to the Commission's work on the protection of competition. The same as yesterday when we discussed the Fiscal Council Report two days ago when it was the DRI Report and I think it is a good practice and that it significantly contributes to raising awareness of the role and importance of independent control bodies, in this case the Competition Protection Commission. What is not good is that today's session is passing without the presence of part of the opposition MPs, who have no sense of responsibility to take part in this debate, and in other words, they have shown that they are not interested in either the report of independent bodies, the economic topics, the debate on KIM, the Vojvodina, Belgrade, and Tijana's law, or many other laws that were on the agenda of the National Assembly. They say, why don't you adopt reports of independent bodies? Why aren't reports of independent bodies in the Assembly coming in? Then they set themselves up on a regular basis, and there are reports of independent bodies on the agenda, and they don't come to the session. They say, when's the kim session going to be? Then there's a session about KIM, and by the way, they really care about Kim. Then a session is scheduled on whose agenda was the situation on KIM, and they don't come. They say, why don't you pass Tijana's law? A session on Tiana's law is scheduled, of course they don't come. Let's make a deal with the people once with you. They still say, be careful they have the courage to say it. There is not a single topic that will make us return to the Serbian Parliament. That's what Marinika Tepic said, I think. That's what Bosko Obradovic says on those rare occasions when he's not at the US Embassy, since the last time is at the US Embassy every day, and in those rare moments when he's not, he says there is not a single topic that will force them to return to the Assembly. Well, with those brave people, we're dealing with things here. It reminds me of the saying, I'll paraphrasise, they're not brave because they're not afraid of anything but because they're not ashamed of anything. When it comes to Dragan Gilas, who is the head of that part of the opposition that boycotts parliament's work. I think I know why he's not interested in the report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission. The Competition Protection Commission is, by nature, an anti-monopoly commission. Well, how do you expect Dragan Gilas, who acquired all his wealth right through the monopoly, to support the Anti-Monopolitan Commission's work report. Everyone knows that he had an absolute monopoly on media advertising in Serbia and that monopoly that was achieved exclusively by political means and political pressures, by the political influence of the Direkt Media and all other companies and many MPs have also spoken on the subject today, which tens and hundreds of millions of euros earned precisely through the monopoly. Let's not talk about media darkness that was a direct consequence of that, which was the direct consequence of his government, media darkness and censorship. They were the products of their government. It introduces a monopoly, I get rich, seduced by media darkness and censorship, not to talk about "great brother" and everything else. And then they fell out of power, the money was spent, so let's do Jovo again, and I don't mean Jovo Bakic, but the people's saying Jovo again. Now they would like to return to power so that, together with his Sollak, they would seduce the monopolies again, fill their pockets again, and that the citizens of Serbia were poor as they were poor in the years they ruled. That movie won't watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55798	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55799	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been talking all day about why it is important to take care of an adequate relationship with the issue of competition. You've heard, respected representatives of the Commission, I'd say, very convincing examples. Many of them, it is true, concern and for good reason concern what the Direkt media is doing, Dragan Solak, Dragan Gilas. Not only in the sphere of cable transmission and the level you've read now, but also because of all those things that are, we have this black on white, known as the factually established situation of our country's not so long ago. Here, a few words ago, Mr. Markovic said. Those things matter. So to be clear, they're not a matter of political relations, and they have absolutely nothing to do with what we know, and these days it's confirmed what's being said directly, confirmed from the first hand, that these people have a political issue with us, Alexander Vuk, SNS, I'm talking about the confirmation that we got from one of their TVs, you probably saw that too these days. There was a black on the white, instructions for their journalists coming from the editors. School, Cosic, it doesn't matter who, but they come from editors how they deal politically with SNS people and we found it by, I think, one of their journalists simply can't live with that level of non-professional relationship dictated to people, to apply it every day, on every possible and impossible subject, and then he shared that information with the public. So it's not the point of things, we know it. In this way only the public got direct confirmation, but that's so, it's a common-known thing. What is important and what bothers us to say these things is direct damage to the citizens of this country, and great abuses when not taking care of the proper ratio of political abuses and markets, and damage can be huge dimensions. Mr. Markovic started the topic. I'll get you all back to 2011 in the next few minutes. First, one text that speaks about political comrades, as indicated, and is based on data published in 2008 and 2009. Watch out now, there's a story about the share, in business revenue on the Serbian advertising market. We are no longer talking about a level of 25% for a company mentioned by you, Mr. President, in 2003, Dragan Gilas 25% share in the market. And then what happens? In 2004, the cards are politically mixed and redistributed by one of the Dossos governments, replacing the second, Boris Tadic becomes Serbian president and brings together Dragan Dilas and following the band. In 2004, staked in business revenues in Serbia's advertising market, Dragan Gilas - 63%. In 2005, the U.S. - 68%, 2006 - 72%, 2007 – 78%. And then data were released that Gilas's companies recorded a four-year increase in profit of 800% of business income of 2300%, of course clear and unequivocally based on abuse of political positions. And it's no longer about the allegations that the press is speculating about. That same year, we get confirmation in the form of an official report, and that report I wanted to remind all of us again. The report bears the title - Report on press pressures and media control in Serbia. That report on this subject says a few things. First, by means of its agencies, Dragan Gilas controls the lease of most of the advertising space on national and regional televisions in Serbia, which explains later. But before that explains what that means and how that damage is formed. So he says that based on data obtained from the National Bank's Treasury, the printing company that is a member of the "Multigroup" company Dragan Gilas has achieved direct business co-operation with state institutions, a company owned by a man in the country's largest political and state functions, the republic, the city, was only a matter of the moment where he was located, but he was in those positions. The report says that among those institutions with which business co-operation is located are those financed from the Belgrade city budget, and we are talking about a man who was also mayor, the company provides services to the Belgrade City Assembly, the township of Novi Belgrade, most Belgrade theatres, the Tourist Organisation of the City of Belgrade, the Library of the City of Belgrade, the Cultural Centre, the House of Youth, the House of Health of Rakovica, the Historical Museum, the Pedagogical Museum, the National Museum, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, etc. The company, once again, owned by a man who is either in the position of a minister or as director of the Office of the President of the Republic or at the place of mayor, who, by the way, is directly responsible, so to say, as a production house, for the following software content: The Big Brother, you heard it, but to remind us of others: "48 hours wedding", "All for love", "I change women" and others reality programs which, of course, today are threatened personally by Dragan Gilas, but also, it seems to me, the other responsible workers for the penetration of such content on our media sky, such as Mrs Voytehovski, have personally promoted, represented and defended the opportunity and others, you know how much these present allies of Dragan Gilas all dreaded the reality of the program. But it's not the end of all the problems. How did this all reflect 68, sometimes 72, sometimes 78 percent share in the advertising market? The same report in its public service section says: "Some companies were paid not in money, but in seconds for co-operation, and then those seconds of advertising -- now I read you the quote directly -- were forced to sell not at market prices, not at prices publicly published by RTS, but were forced to sell them at ten times, quote, to lower prices." Who? Those companies that were trading those advertising seconds away. And here he says -- it's about the companies that Dragan Gilas and his "Emoshon" were behind -- weddings, women and the rest. So that's how abuse was done, and that's how someone made, once again, thanks to the political position and the monopoly, to the profit of times 10, which everyone who wanted to work together in any way was forced to do business. At the same time, by the way, he wasn't paid for seconds, he was paid for money, and with great money. They say that for each of the episodes he managed to place from his educational programmes, he received about 13,000 euros, which was the record of all the records, according to the episode, by the same RTS. This report from which I have now read was published on 19 September 2011. It's signed by the Anti-Corruption Council. This report was signed and presented personally by Verica Barac. From then on to the day today of these allegations of defense, there is no such thing as disprovement. I don't think he even tried, because he knows it's pointless to try, none of the people mentioned in this report. These are the dangers that our duty is to indicate, that these things don't happen anymore, that such brutal abuses never happen again. As for your work, gentlemen, in that domain of the protection of society from the potential occurrence of such things, we, by the way, have heard it today, consider it very good. We think you're doing a good job. We find your annual report correct, and I want to give you a question and give you a message at the very end. The same question will be asked to the representatives of the State Auditing Institution two days ago, representatives of the Fiscal Council yesterday. So, I'm giving you a chance to tell the public who's following this, what's your impression, your personal assessment, absolutely based on how you feel rightly, on the subject of your relationship, on the relationship between your institution and the National Assembly? Not just any party, but the National Assembly as an institution in the current assembly. It's important that the public hears it. And the message at the very end, the confirmation, therefore, of all that other fellow Members of the people have said -- we, regardless of what your answer to this report is, will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55800	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55801	Now I'm gonna have to be biased. I wish someone else had asked me that question, but here you are, I'll answer it. My relationship with the National Assembly since you gave us this mandate, since 2014, is such that we have improved this relationship because this relationship of quality has not been when I came, and not with the National Assembly, but with the Government and other state institutions. You know, I think it's on one not good, but on one great level. Why am I being biased now? Because whenever you sent us a personal request for a specific assistance for information regarding your role in this negotiating chapter, we were automatically prepared to respond, and you thanked us every time. So, you thanked us, although you didn't have to and should not, since you're overseeing our work and it's our obligation to provide you with information, so that's why this relationship is great. I'm saying, somebody else better ask me a question. Now I'm biased because it was you who always wrote a letter thanking you for your help, support and all the information we provided for your conversations at international meetings. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55802	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55803	One sentence of everything. Yes, Mr. President, this is specifically about the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, and it is not a matter of courtoasia. The committee really needs to work well with competent ministries, but also with different independent institutions. Every time we get significant help from all those we address and every time we feel the need to give thanks for this correct relationship. I believe that this is a kind of sign of respect that the National Assembly as an institution, because it is a parliamentary committee, has for all independent state institutions, bodies, bodies, but it was important for me to give an opportunity to anyone who these days, and not just these days, to come to the National Assembly to announce his personal view of this relationship to the citizens of Serbia. You know the reasons. Not so rarely are we accused, I find it unfair, that there is no proper relationship and proper co-operation between the National Assembly and other actors in society, and that is why it is important for Serbian citizens to hear that you and your colleagues see this relationship, which you think is more than correct, that it is positive. I'm glad I heard it, and I'm glad the citizens of Serbia heard it. Once again, as a parliamentary group, I now speak for my colleagues, we hope to have that kind of good relationship in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55804	Here you go, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55805	Any question, any MP to address, was answered by the Commission. So, regardless of whether these were resolution committees, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Economic Affairs, means every MP who referred the question to the Commission, which we have received, every answer has been sent, what we have been able to answer and what has been in our power and in the future. I say again, I'm really happy, and that's why I said at the beginning of my speech that I was glad it was support. So you're overseeing and that's fine. We are responsible for your work to you. Every question is welcome. We didn't get it all. Our work depends on the regulators too. So we'll do the same quality work as the regulator will, let's say, work together with us. Anyway, I'd like to thank the board of directors who really helped us. We wouldn't have this capacity if it wasn't for the Administrative Board. They had people of understanding, they listened to our reasons, and they always respected our reasons. So they understood that these reasons were justified, so we have administrative institutional capacities and that's why we're where we are. Also, the Committee on Economic Affairs, our parent committee always had understanding and when we needed to consult for cooperation with other regulators, the Committee helped us in this field. So, individually and as committees, I think this is on a better level than I thought it could be. That's why, because of your relationship that you just said was a letter of gratitude from one correct behavior, but my insistence whenever we get something from the Assembly to be automatic and responsible. So thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55806	The word is from a colleague of Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, as an authorised representative of the motions of this act, i.e. a report on the work of the Competition Protection Commission for 2018 and as chairman of the Committee which discussed the report before today's plenary debate, I would like to express my appreciation for today's constructive debate and respect in terms of a common denominator, which is whether economic and economic growth and development, that is, the overall progress of Serbia and all of our citizens living in it. Today’s debate has raised questions, praises, and many constructive proposals. I want this opportunity to remind myself of the exposure of one of the colleagues who pointed out the importance of highly professional institutes and the involvement of young people in them. Mr Arsic, remember our recent visit to the People's Republic of China when we heard in our conversation with our hosts that many varieties of fruit from this climate had successfully developed in their country thanks to our Institute of Fruiting from Novi Sad. Just remember how well we felt in the delegation. With that in mind, as well as the policy of our government, President Alexander Vukic, and the plans and priorities that our Government is dealing with, as well as the openness of our citizens and our state, I deeply believe that this idea will come to an understanding and be accepted, because we professional institutes need them, we need our young ones too. I deeply believe that this idea will be accepted, regardless of which side and from which parliamentary groups or MPs it has come, for all of this is because it is in the interest of our country and our citizens who have given unequivocal trust to our President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the President of the Commission and the members of the Council of the Commission, there have been many questions you have answered and answered today, but there have been many more praises that are easy and nice to receive. That's the right thing to do, because you've earned them and I'm joining up with those praises one more time. There was criticism. But, of course, those constructive criticisms should be accepted. That's what every reasonable man does. There have been other criticisms, and you accept them as an additional motive in your further work for even better results. Finally, I would also like to say that today's debate has further contributed to the authority and integrity of the Commission and all of you individually, as well as to all the staff in the Commission. She watched and listened to you today, I can tell, almost all of Serbia. Your influence, or the impact of the Commission, is growing, but after today, it will increase further, and that obliges you, as well as your results. You've raised the scale, you've raised standards and it's perfectly natural that in the coming years we expect more and more, or better results from you. I personally believe that you are expert, that you are capable, that you can do it. Finally, President of the Council, President of the Commission and members of the Council, I congratulate you on today's presentation and wants you to have a lot of success in your work, and I urge you dear colleagues and colleagues to support this report in the interest of Serbia and our citizens together in the day of voting. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-20-0.u55808	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Since no one is answering, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm closing my rules of procedure for a unique search. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 21 June 2019, starting at 10.00 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I thank you all for your cooperation. (session is at 18 hours and 15 minutes)
