ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54319	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Ivković and Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session was invited to attend Nela Kuburovic, the minister of justice with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, MPs of the assembly majority have somehow clouded the essence of this proposal and few of which are left in the memory that we are actually talking about amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. This proposal and otherwise the Criminal Code cannot be debated either demagogue, or populist, or with any outflows of emotion, etc., and this is exactly how this whole law and all these changes of consciousness can be debated only on the Juric Foundation, on 158,000 votes collected to get this law on the agenda, and that is not the essence. The bottom line is, this isn't Tijana's law, like it wasn't before Alexine, or Zojin, or Maria's law. These laws are all, or they change the tragedies that happened to families and really terrible things that every normal person has to condemn and I don't believe there's someone who doesn't loathe at such things, but today is not just that. These are changes and additions to the Criminal Code today. We of the SRS have brought to you in principle some of our essential questions and fundamental objections, including this article 6 which speaks of parole, which you have provided for some of the most serious crimes, the possibility of parole after 27 years of imprisonment, and for some of the crimes you have absolutely made it impossible. You know well that it's not good, that it can't be, that every person who's been convicted, whatever monster it was, and as much as we as people say terrible, monstrously, etc., as lawyers first of all, we need to know that the convicted person is not being denied fundamental human rights except the right to freedom of movement, and that's something that we need very precise and clear to say. To draw attention to this at all, we have proposed this amendment and said that parole instead of 27 years can go to 20 years, it can go to 30, we can talk about it, but the fact is that it has to be. You know, if you sentence someone to life imprisonment completely with the right, and if someone knows that they'll never be able to ask for freedom again, it doesn't mean they'll get out if they ask, probably won't, but there's got to be a simple inside man's hope that someday, even in 30 years, 20, 27, they'll be able to ask someone to let him go on that parole. If we don't have it, then we can expect a series of crimes from a prisoner like that. He'll kill both the guard and the other prisoner, and the people visiting, etc., because he's here, so he's here, and there's never a chance he's not there again. It's one of the anomalies of this law. We will continue to talk on our amendments to all our remarks. Of course, generally this law, because of what has been presented as essential and truly because of this article, provides for this strictest life sentence for monstrous crimes against minor children, for pregnant women, for old and powerless persons, for sick persons, could have further spread this, Mrs. Kuburovic, and I hope in the next changes and additions, which we expect quickly, that you will also extend it. So what you represent as the essence of the amendments and the addition of this law is good and it is fine, but it would be good if you'd taken our amendments a little more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54321	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54322	It'll be short. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first I call for the amendment not to be accepted. The amendment itself wasn't exactly about what we heard through the explanation. The amendment itself referred to a certain number of years and there is an explanation why what is proposed is better than what is suggested by the amendment. I think that argument is completely in place. I think it's perfectly quality written and it's understandable to everyone. We, therefore, agree as a parliamentary group that the number of years planned should be greater, or should be as suggested by the ministry. That's the first thing. The second thing, the part about being able to make any changes during the sentence. That possibility still exists. So, we have a pardon institute and it is found in response to a letter to the Ministry in writing which they delivered to some subsequent amendments. However, thirdly, what I considered particularly important in the previous presentation. It is particularly important to ask what will happen to these people who are on life sentences, how they will behave if they reconcile with fate and conclude they are where they are and their salvation is gone, whether it will in itself lead to violent behavior, whether it will endanger other people who are on a fine. On that dilemma I think I heard the best possible answer in one place, and it was given by Mr Juric, the initiator of these proposals, the complete initiative that was crowned by this proposal for amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. His answer is short and his answer was – what is the alternative? Is it because we are concerned about what will happen in the place where the sanctions are maintained that we should ask ourselves – and what will happen when that person comes out? Is it an alternative to be terrified of a child? I think that's the answer he said absolutely everything and I agree with the ministry's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54323	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54324	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from a previous discussion I could conclude that you were against the inability of parole. The amendment refers to a reduction in the proposed deadline for verification when parole can be allowed and for the sake of the public, we must indicate why the Ministry of Justice has proposed that the deadline for verification, i.e. the possibility of reviewing whether the conditions for parole are met, be 27 years. Now the maximum prescribed sentence, i.e. the most severe sentence, is the prison sentence of 30 to 40 years, which means if someone is sentenced to 40 years in prison, only after two-thirds of the suspended sentence, as is the rule when it comes to parole, he can apply for parole, which means it's 26 years and eight months. If we introduce life imprisonment as the most severe punishment, which is also a more severe punishment than the prescribed sentence, we felt that this parole absolutely cannot be below the threshold that is already prescribed and that future persons who are sentenced to life imprisonment are not in a different situation compared to those who are now in prison for 40 years. For this very reason, it is envisaged that the punishment, or time required for the verification, should be 27 years. But I will also remind you that this is not the first time that the possibility of parole is limited. In 2013, a law relating to the introduction of a register of paedophiles and the right position of a person convicted of criminal acts against semi-freedom towards minors, where the possibility and mitigation of penalties and parole has also been disabled. For over 10 crimes, it is envisaged, so this is certainly not a newspaper in our Code. What we pointed out during the principle debate, we just believe that for the most serious crimes, for the murder of children, for rapists where we have a fatal consequence certainly parole should not be imposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54325	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54326	Thank you. Mrs. Kuburović absolutely understood what we were looking for in the amendment and what you said was about what we said in the principle debate, and those 40 years, two-thirds etc. Here's the point: Everyone doesn't have the right to parole. You say – it's not the first time, it's already happened. Just because something's happened before doesn't mean it's good. If that were the case, we'd never change the law. We invite you, and we have already called on you to form a Criminal Code with all possible criminal acts to be a codified Criminal Code and that it is indeed going on, that we do not have to take care of it at all times. But it's not good if a colleague who spoke earlier is trying to say that we don't know something here, that we didn't understand something, etc. We only have in some parts a different opinion from the representatives of the government. Do not act populistly, I ask you, and allow us to communicate with Mrs Kuburović, we have no objection to you or anyone else, and then consult the lawyers in your parliamentary group. We are not Serbian radicals such as these various creations of NGOs that have now raised a hook and a riot against this law, we are not absolutely against anything that is in the interest of protection and life and health and state and state and state interests and national interests and we are trying to draw attention to that through this amendment and through any amendments that follow. We know that you will not accept these amendments, which is why we have written these 20 years just to have a topic to discuss. I told you, it could have been 30 years, but it's not a topic, the topic is this second part, whether everyone has to have that possibility. This can be discussed and I hope indeed, Mrs Kuburović, I end up with my colleague Arsic, that you, as someone dedicated to your work, will really hire a good team whose head you will be on and that you will be remembered for proposing a codified Criminal Law. You don't need anything better in your career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54327	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54328	Just a brief note, seeing as how unfortunately we didn't understand each other. I didn't suggest that the amendment promoter didn't understand anything, it wasn't the goal at all. The goal was to provide some kind of response to a dilemma that I noticed, which is the question of how a person who thinks he's going to be sentenced to life imprisonment, whether it's going to be more aggressive, whether he's going to do more damage while he's being punished and offered an answer, consider it a personal relationship, but I think it's deeply correct. The answer is: Is it a dilemma that we should be concerned about what that face will do when it is found free? That was all I said. I had no idea that there was any kind of equivalence, a similarity between the amendment promoters and those, as the promoter said, creation. I mean, even if he didn't use a harsh expression, he used a good term. As far as they're concerned, they have a few more minutes to show up in this room before their amendments come in order. If they don't show up, it won't spare them the chance for us to discuss these amendments here, and so will they. I think we understand each other now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54329	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54330	Okay, we don't cry for those who aren't there. Those who wish to participate in the work, do not have to participate, that is a legitimate right. He also has the right to submit amendments, we and the right and obligation to discuss amendments. As far as we're concerned, they're not a subject at all, the subject is this serious law. Again, I remind you that the minister knows that every punishment, including a prison sentence, even a life sentence, has a certain purpose of punishment. You know, if you punish someone, you expect his treatment there somewhere in prison to be so that that person can be rehabilitated, that he can return to normal life frames, etc. In these most difficult cases, we agree that this is almost impossible to expect, and we agree that most often in such a situation, the recovery of crimes occurs and certainly all future victims should be protected from such acts, because who once showed such a monstrosity that he was able to rape a three-year-old and kill him, it's really hard to expect that any prison will return to a normal man. But in order to be as acceptable in prison as possible, there would not be any threat to him, he should be left with that possibility. We repeat multiple times, we don't think someone should be allowed to do that sometimes when he asks after 27 or how many years for someone to say, well done, you're getting better, you're going on parole. It's probably never going to happen in such drastic cases. So that a judge can bring in and allow parole, for example. The other day, a monster, a granddaughter who raped and killed an immobile grandmother to get her, I don't know, 2,000 dinars, etc. These are really some things that a normal man can hardly repeat, but we have to formally satisfy what we as lawyers have learned at school. It's simply something that needs to be the subject of the law, because there might be some kind of case that would deserve it. There, just as a possibility, not as a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54331	Thank you. The People's Messenger Neđo Jovanovic has the word, and then Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54332	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, the honourable assistant minister of justice, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, what must be the most steamed ears not only for the Members of Serbia but also for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is when we are imputed to use populism when adopting amendments and supplementing the Criminal Code, that we are populist, and that we are not in the right direction in which the practical application of the law we are making should be implemented, or achieve the best possible effect. There's no pulsism here. What is most important to point out is that the Republic of Serbia and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia are in no way such that it could be considered repressive when it comes to criminal sanctions. We lawyers, as well as citizens, need to know that criminal sanctions have two facts and preventive in terms of individual prevention, generally in terms of general prevention. There has to be a repression. That's kind of the state's response to the perpetrator's crime. What is the state's response to the perpetrator of the most monstrous crime? What kind of response does the state have to have to have to do with someone who has no regard for the reckless, the bestial, and in an extremely ferocious way lived over the life and body of an powerless person, a child, a very small age, a very small adult, a victim who suffers enormous torment? It's an inexplicable pain. This isn't about populism, because if it's ethically whether ethics is observed, whether it's moral for those who are damaged, which are parents of murdered children, it's those who are the closest relatives of murdered, powerless persons, those who suffer today pain and suffering because of the cruelty of the crime committed. Which is why we don't put ourselves in the position of those who are right now watching and listening to the observers of what the state is waiting for, which is what society is waiting for, and that's the purpose of criminal sanctions to be achieved. Whether the purpose of criminal sanctions will be achieved if we allow the monster, I must say under the precepts, because I do not want in any way in my vocabulary to carry out anything offensive, but such a word is appropriate. Can such a man then be accepted by society, can be accepted by the social community, can he enjoy the trust of the citizens when the one single change of opportunity to achieve parole is accepted and returned to the social community? I'm a citizen, not a lawyer convinced he can't. It can't be for two simple reasons. One, which didn't even show a gram of remorse, which means he doesn't have a personal ethical code. I remind you that the murderer of small Tijana Juric during the sentence and during the course of the criminal proceedings, did not show any empathy, no emotion, provided an apology to his parents, in any way determined remorse for what he did. Then what we need to talk about and what the profession advocates when it comes to the inability to give parole. On the other hand, we have the comparative or parallel legislation of other countries, other countries, why we do not observe from that side the Angolan or any other right. In America, you have an absolute inability to parole without saying that in more than ten countries, there is a death penalty as a prescribed criminal sanction for this kind of crime and hundreds of years of criminal sanctions imposed as prison sentences. America is a model democratic state. We are here and also a minister, the distinguished minister has repeatedly pointed out that EU countries also have in their legislation the inability to give parole. Let's take an example just from the Netherlands. This is an EU member. The UK, regardless of Bregzit, was one of the EU's leading members. Which is why Serbia would be mortgaged on something other people aren't. Which is why Serbia would have a burden that 160,000 signatures do not want to see, 160,000 signatures of those who ask us to amend the Criminal Code. Should we put in a path or eliminate those 160.00 signatures that, if one survey were done in an adequate way, would be a multiple number, not 160,000. I assure you that this number will be incomparably higher. If citizens are now being polled, cause public opinion, to return the death penalty, do you respected colleagues and citizens of Serbia think that would be inadmissible? On the contrary, I do not think so, but precisely because we have signed international agreements and acts in force, because our constitution does not provide for the death penalty, we have a moral obligation and a legal obligation, the obligation as MPs to introduce life imprisonment as the most severe punishment or criminal punishment, and for the most severe crimes, which unfortunately in Serbia are not few, and where unfortunately they are not victims of rare, and I have said who are the victims, which is particularly surprising then parole appears as an unquestionable fact whether there should be any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54333	Right on the line, the People's Messenger, the Witch of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54334	The Anglo-Saxon law here mentioned is exactly what has been imposed in Serbia since 2000, which, you will agree, has ruined our judicial system. And today we have the consequences of that, of the prosecution investigations, etc., of the tribunalalization of our judiciary, of special courts and of what not. So if we had a coded Criminal Law, then there wouldn't be a need for us to have these changes at all times. The number of 158,000 signatures is something that really needs to be respected. But why are we in a situation where someone needs to collect 158,000 signatures to get this on the agenda? Why didn't he react to the government as soon as the crime took place, when he wasn't already in the existing law? That's why we're saying that this is a populist performance, and indeed so much pathetic was in the debate yesterday that it didn't look like a congregation debate or a code. We're not without empathy, on the contrary, we just want to distract you. Here, says a colleague, 158,000 signatures. All right. It's not the same subject. But in the AP, Serbian radicals gather 30,000 signatures to register a humanitarian "Serbian-Russian Centre" in Novi Sad. Well, why did you ignore 30,000 signatures? Here, today we are going into action to collect signatures to put out of force a law that regulates enforcement, that is, against public executioners. So when we get you 159,000 signatures, will you put it on the agenda? That's what we're talking about. Don't approach it that way. Let's talk like lawyers. The most severe punishment should be for one who commits rape, murder of a minor child, over an old, sick, powerless person. So everything that is contained in this article. And we don't mind. But we're just saying that it was a different order of moves, that we shouldn't wait for someone to launch an initiative, so whether that youth initiative for human rights, as it is called, and this humanitarian law fund, Natasha Kandic, etc., is now discussing whether someone here is being courted or not, so that they threaten some European Commissions, etc. Let them do it for the sake of those who give them money, but we have allowed them in this way to interfere in the work of the National Assembly, because we have made a bit of a mistake. I hope this will never happen again and I really expect Mrs. Nele Kuburović to make a serious bill, so that we can have a nice, human conversation, both before the board and on the committees, but then we come here with one position that will primarily represent serious legal opinions and then say - at least 50 years of future care parliaments do whatever they want, the Criminal Code won't have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54335	The word is from a colleague, Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54336	It is my opinion that this amendment should be rejected, because I believe that in the laws of the judiciary things must be explicit. So there's got to be as little as possible - it can and it doesn't have to. It has to be in the laws - it can or can't. So we have to say what's illegal and what's unforgivable. And what's unforgivable, that's what we said when we talked about a life sentence. So there's no parole here. However, in the very range of life sentences, there are conditions whenever possible. If we look at the countries of the Council of Europe, 49 SE countries, I think 40 of those 49 countries are similar solutions. Once again I say - I support that this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54337	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic and Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) First colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54338	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is now proposing that the sentenced to life imprisonment may be suspended after 25 years of suspended sentence, instead of 27 years, because the statute of the International Criminal Court is so foreseen. As we could see in the argument of the Government that proposed that this amendment be rejected, it is said that in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, such a legislative solution is possible, provided that there are other appropriate mechanisms for reviewing the penalties imposed, and in our legal system, such mechanisms exist. For this reason, this amendment should be rejected. The amendment further suggests erasing a position that defines criminal acts for which the court cannot suspend the convicted. So it is proposed that the initiatives and solutions of the Tijana Juric Foundation are not accepted. I have to say, and that's what MPs do, who, on the one hand, act great fighters for mothers and children, and on the other hand, submit amendments that make it clear to all Serbian citizens what they really think about the protection of children, pregnant women and mothers. The signatories of this amendment are with Tatjan Macur in a party to modern Serbia, and not only are they not in parliament, but they are submitting an amendment to a bill that introduces stricter punishment for serious murder, rape, promise of an powerless face, promise of a child and a promise of abuse of position, seeking to erase such a solution. Let us only remember how many they talked about Tijana's law, how many times they transferred that law was not passed, and then they approached very seriously for many people, unfortunately for many families with painful questions, only to use it to attack power, on Alexander Vukic, on the Serbian government. Now they're doing the same thing, only in the opposite direction. Now they're attacking the solutions they were representing. They are now not for life imprisonment, they are now not for a stricter criminal policy, only because they saw Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic insisting on stricter punishment, only because they saw the government of the Republic of Serbia accept the solutions, namely Igor Juric's proposals from the Tijana Juric Foundation. If they think it's politics, they obviously think it's the way they take care of citizens, and I think they're wrong. I think they still have to come to parliament, vote for these proposals, because it is the only way they can show that they really want to protect children, pregnant women, powerless people, and not only important whether they will collect cheap political points and whether the law has proposed power or opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54339	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54340	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the amendment not to be accepted. You have heard from an authorised representative of the SNS, an argument concerning those professional issues in this amendment, and you have heard a good reminder, a very good reminder that we all need to bear in mind about who the promoters are and what they are dealing with, what they are constantly resenting as a parliamentary majority, we would like to put on their noses, and what is the most hopeless, most pathetic example of catastrophic hypocrisy, and this is exactly what they see on the basis of this amendment, this debate and this topic. I've been thinking about whether we should put these things out in public today. You know what? Absolutely, there's no more important subject on which you could see the difference between doing something, because you think it's right, because you think you represent someone, because you're pushing for certain values and everything else that some people are willing to write to themselves or do it all out of deep self-interest, an urge that has nothing to do with anything noble? The amendment was submitted by MPs Stevanovic Aleksandar and Djuric Vladimir, representatives of a parliamentary group. Let's remember what parliamentary groups, get us all back together in the second half of 2018. In the second half of 2018, Tatjana Macura, who is also a great protector of children, women, pregnant women and maternity and who keeps telling us, the parliamentary majority, that we don't love them enough, that we don't care enough, that we don't take care of them, we don't protect them, etc., you know all this by heart. Here, in this room, she asked to discuss these solutions that we are discussing at this session. This isn't about anything else that happened, so we're making a parallel. It's not that we're trying to show something here that someone can understand, that they don't understand. What we're talking about, this letter she asked for then to be put on the agenda, and she didn't want to say. She did not want to say that there was already a clear agreement at the time to work together to amend the Criminal Code. The public knew that, and it was said by the ministry. A working group made up of experts, so not someone who has decided to show now how gifted he is for poetry, so that something can write something nice or happy, people who are seriously involved in preparing and supplementing the Criminal Code. There was agreement that it would participate, and the "Tijana Juric" Foundation participated, which also submitted the initial proposal to the National Assembly. All of this was known at the time, and it did not prevent Tatjana Macura from getting up and saying – no evil SNS, not because he told them to put this initiative on the agenda. They signed together on 17 August 2018, and then Tatjana Macura explained here, the proposal - Vladimir Đurić, here is now the signator of the amendment, Aleksandar Stevanović, here is the signator of the amendment, LJupka Mihajlovska, Nenad Christmas and mentioned Macura, who stood up here and said it is inadmissible not to discuss this. That it's inadmissible. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, and we're discussing. What's inadmissible now? Is it because they're gone, and they're pointing the finger? Is that perhaps inadmissible now? Or is it because the amendments make us think through Twitter from a press conference, from that tent, the salty mind, and they're gone? Is it inadmissible not to argue now? Let's just justify why we're here and why we're sitting here, then Tatjana Macura said. Because these same citizens, the 160,000 that signed the initiative, they chose us. Let's just justify why we're sitting here. Where are you sitting, Tatjana Macura, Stevanovic, Djuric and the others? Neither these Gilas, nor these Jeremics, nor these Tadics, nor those from the home branch of the "yellow company" because they were all acting in the same hair. They were the great advocates of this initiative, they were signatories. You didn't know who the bigger signer was. They were running each other from the DS and the Dvora. Where are they today? Do they justify, as they say, their presence in the O.R.? What presence? What presence? Is it inadmissible not to argue? Why don't they discuss where they are and what they are? That's what they said back then, they're gone today. What do they say today about this proposal? Here you go, you too. So, there's nothing out there now, and there's an illusion, so maybe it is, maybe it's not. In the head and in the chin, the same people. What does Tatjana Macura say today, and she represented this, and she stuck it in our noses? He says today – legally, impartially and civilisedly, can we consider this proposal a step backwards? This proposal, this initiative of the Juric Foundation, is a civilizational step backwards. What was less than a year ago? Something to support, to discuss, something everyone signed with their left and right hands. Then what is this? What is this, then, if there is no evidence of evidence that there is, among them no one is involved. That there, among them no one knows of value. That there, among them nothing sacred, is not important, but only one thing they are interested in under God, dealing with Alexander Vukic and the SNS when they thought this was a topic of reckoning, by supporting her, they did it. Today they think and claim everything the opposite of that because they think it's best to deal with us again. I listened to a debate between Mr. Juric, who formed this initial proposal and one man who considers himself the greatest legal expert under the sky. He's the smartest and most professional of all, he's never been born like that, and he probably never will. He asks the head of this great expert – well, now what is the problem with this law? What's the problem with this proposal? A great expert begins his answer. The sentence first, the first part of the sentence, says – The problem is procedural nature, because the leader is already raising his hand – wait, what kind of procedural nature? This one like – No, no. Let me tell you, Alexander Wolfie can't support... And then you stop and then you don't listen to anything further, because you know that everything else is just nonsense, all the nonsense that needs in some way to support that structure, and the bottom line is what a man said right at the very beginning of his first sentence. The problem with them, the biggest problem is that Alexander Vukic said that we should do this, prepare, that we all support it, and as soon as Alexander Vukic is up to something, they must be against it, even if it means against themselves, their words, their signatures and their speeches here. Vladimir Gajic, a great genius, also, an expert on everything, a lawyer on lawyers, you know what he says? That's, by the way, Jeremy's high-ranking official. He says: This law should be called the Tianin and Alexander's Law. Now, this is a relationship to this issue, this is a relationship to all of the scariest, beastly things that we're trying to prevent. There's no value here, there's no need. There's no attitude. Alexander's law, that's how they see it, and that's what they think of it. Here's another expert on experts, Bojan Pajtic. Bojan Pajtic - they do not make Tijana's law, but protect the elite, hiding behind false child care. That's what we do, you know. We don't make Tijana's law. Igor Juric has no idea who said these were the proposals he insisted on all along. He doesn't know. Who is he, except there's just some initiator of the whole story? He knows Bojan Pajtic. As he appeared here the other day, also genius Bosko Obradovic, to say -- it's not the law. He knows. Juric Foundation has no idea. Come on, what we don't know, the Juric Foundation has no idea, they know you genius, Obradović and Pajtic who still says – We did this to make sure that if someone from SNS elite were to be the victim, then if one of us killed tomorrow to get a life sentence. We abused, Tijana's law says, to ensure the life and safety of the advances. Pajtic Bojan again – That life is worth us more than others. I'm scum. He says, we're scum that we want to adopt this. He says: All of you who plead to support this, you are, in fact, helping us to protect ourselves, and we are all who support this, these changes and additions to the Criminal Code, scum. He says he doesn't have the same emotions against children, for example Marijana Risticevic, and he's having such a wonderful time, all so scientifically subdued, a man who's not long ago taken to praise himself publicly that he's a regular professor, a regular professor. It's your relationship to both the Foundation and these things we're trying to do, and I'm sorry that sometimes it sounds too emotional to someone, but if so, let's not be ashamed of it. You should be ashamed of these like the West of Todorovic, that's some Dasko Milinovic, who says this was supposed to be funny – I'm a child-killer, so I'm against this law. What does that mean, he's the only one who knows. The Democratic Party, from Tijana's, has reached Erdogan's law. Tamara Tripic, a member of the Democratic Party, says – What we are discussing, this is not Tijana's law, this is Erdogan's law. Those of them who signed up to sign the initiative know it much better than we do, because they were fighting each other to show who was faster to sign the initiative. Well, yesterday Alexandra Jerkov says – No, actually, we are divided. You know, half the parliamentary group thinks we should, half think we shouldn't vote for this, for example, I don't think we should, she says. But that's no problem to say anyway – this is Erdogan's law because it's an abused family, legislatively so, and so on. They don't support this at all, they signed it by accident, they didn't even read it. When they signed it, it was all in line with the highest European standards. At the time when they signed no amendment like the one we are discussing now, they expressed concern, whether a European norm is now being broken, some European standard is being broken or not. No, that's when they realized, that was a good suggestion. Today, as they say, because our parliamentary majority says we support, they do not support. This is erdoganization and child abuse. This is... Well, you've heard of it. I don't want to repeat that nonsense again. Here, you and marine Tepic. It's Gilas Dragana now. Here's why he says it, this farce. So, the adoption of this Criminal Code, these changes and the addition of farce, just so you know, that's what we do, because we want to push a life sentence that has nothing to do with the Juric Foundation's proposal, and it also says that we're running the Juric family through the tabloid mud. Now I don't know where she saw this, who she's ever heard from us say one word ugly. I'm sure, it's never, but, well, it's these miserable attempts to justify their own absence and their own decisions that they have to post-poly, simply, say that something's wrong here, and it doesn't matter what they signed themselves. Konstantinovic Nenad, a great expert in justice, says - this law is dangerous. So, protecting children, making it seem that in every way possible it's pre-warned that something bad happens to them in the world is dangerous. And why is it dangerous? One more time, because that's what we're proposing. Janko Veselinovic, also a great expert, also says this is not "Tiana's Law". He, like Pajtic and Bosko Obradovic, knows better than Igor Juric. Janko Vesenović, just remember, he knows better. He's more professional. Vladimir Gajic, here he is again. What's he saying? These changes are retrograde. So what we're doing right now, I guess it's going back to the Middle Ages. Bosko Obradovic, if not a million times in this room, said the words "family policy" and "family values", unless he said "I am a great opponent of the EU" two million times, "I am fighting the EU", etc., "I will bring it down", do you know what he says today? He does not support what he himself signed because this proposal he signed, while it was an initiative, is against European practice and against European values. When you look at all this, what does a man think, what else can a man say? I'm finishing my presentation, ladies and gentlemen. For these reasons, I absolutely believe we should not support this amendment. Proposers in the O.R. didn't come in. It's been more than 10 minutes. There will now be another amendment to the same content, the same proposing group, that of Tadic, Jeremic and they have plenty of time to come here and say what they think about this, to explain their behaviour and their views, and I would just tell them -- how they have acted on this subject, according to this session, or the voting day, if it is easier for them to count on it -- they have acted on and proved themselves as regards politics in the Republic of Serbia for centuries and centuries. If they don't find it appropriate to show up in the hall to vote for what they said they support him from the bottom of their soul, if they keep saying the worst possible things about this proposal, let them think it's their ugly face and that black cheek they'll be left with for ever and what they're going to do, it's up to them. As far as SNS is concerned, we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54341	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Ljubić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54342	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, honourable MPs, I propose to the National Assembly and the People's MPs not to accept this amendment in the voting day, as the amendment maintains a conditional discharge for the most serious crimes, which is unacceptable for the intended crimes because numerous child killings have occurred in Serbia over the past period. The murders of children were committed in the most playful and monstrosistic ways, by the fact that the victims were most often raped, severely injured, of which the consequences would have passed away. These are murders that a healthy mind can hardly accept. Can we imagine what the victims' families are facing, what pain, suffering, and despair are going through? There is a huge increase in such crimes in Serbia with the element of violence against children. The chronology of the murders that were committed shows that the perpetrators were most often returned. In current court practice, prison sentences have been imposed for up to 40 years, but the question is whether they have achieved the purpose of punishment, or whether they have prevented the perpetrator from doing such crimes in the future or from affecting others, that they do not commit such child killings? No, because these same killers, as soon as they're free, they're going to repeat serious crimes again. A growing number of such crimes have shown that this punishment has not yielded the desired results. Little Katarina, Tijana, Angelina, Dragana, Ivana, Luka, Marko are just some of the names of the children who are gone, children who have been killed by those who show no remorse for the work they have done, but, on the contrary, cold-bloodedness. That is why the need to amend the Criminal Code has arisen. Our legislation so far did not know the life sentence of prison, which almost all European countries had. These changes and additions to the Criminal Code introduce a life sentence for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes – murderers of children, minors, pregnant women, when it comes to child rape, rape where death is due. The parole can be requested for anyone convicted of life imprisonment without committing a serious murder. So far, there has been a possibility of parole in our legislation after two-thirds of the fines served and court permits. With these amendments, there will be no more parole for the perpetrators of serious crimes, for those who commit serious murder. Also, the courts will no longer be able to reduce the penalty for a serious murder, rape with a fatal outcome, the promise of a child with a fatal outcome, the promise of an powerless person with a fatal outcome. The sentence of life in prison will be avoided by minors, as will those who were under 21 at the time of the murder. Another change is that the minimum penalty is 10 years only if there are expedient circumstances or if the court assesses it. If the act is qualified as a serious murder, the relief penalty cannot be brought. A life sentence is just one part of a set of changes. Other amendments to the law concern the tightening of penalties for thugs, the processing of drug dealers, drug trafficking. Unfortunately, Tijana Juric's killer will not be punished for life in prison, because the law does not act retroactively, but that is why children's murderers, close families, pregnant women in the future will be punished with the most severe punishment. I don't think we should forget about all the children who have been killed by the hands of ferocious killers, and that as a society, we have to do everything in our power to make sure that such crimes never happen again, that I think about the future and the greater safety of children. The safety of our children is the most important question. Taking care of children should be the most priority thing, the responsibility of all of us. The aim of all these amendments to the law is to prevent the execution and repetition of these crimes. Essentially, people who are dangerous for others, minors and children will be removed from society and kept in better control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54343	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54344	Thank you, Chairman. In addition to what the Government's formal explanation is in this amendment, I ask the question is it even moral today to talk about something like this? Otherwise, the applicants, the real applicants and the essential applicants of the amendments are Đilas, Jeremic, Tadic, and those who are the formal applicants of the amendments are MPs who, unfortunately, on the day these tycoons bought their parent parties only became the simultaneous property of these same tycoons. Even if we ignore all of this and try to put aside in some way, the question arises whether it's even moral to discuss something like this when even the applicant today doesn't want anything to say about the amendment that he has submitted. It is clear to us that today will be spent in Belgrade cafes, Belgrade restaurants, and they certainly did not avoid the possibility of taking neither profit nor travel expenses, nor anything that follows them on this basis in this respected House, but I must say that this is, forgive the expression, but indeed what is at work today is a joke with the citizens of Serbia, a mockery with this respected House, and worst of all, you will admit and mock with the families of those who lost their loved ones, first of all children. The mockery is this with 160,000 signatories of the initiative that is before us today and it is very important for these people to see who these people are and what part of the MPs they represent in this distinguished House. On the other hand, we will consider both this and every subsequent amendment that comes from anyone, even some, hypocritical applicants such as Mrs Jerkov, Comic, Marinika Tepic, etc., because it reflects our responsibility to this respected House and to the citizens of Serbia in order to prevent such things from happening again, i.e. If the monsters who did such a misdemeanor hadn't found themselves at large again, but also our attempt to reduce the pain of those who lost their children in that, let's say, the great tragedies that hit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54345	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54346	There are no motions for this amendment in the O.R. today. I don't know where they are. Whether in the park they feed pigeons like the rest of the days or maybe they're dealing with this unification as they say, that advanced project and the Democratic Party, united or whatever they call it, what they're talking about these days, but it doesn't matter. This amendment is also a paradigm of the situation in which we found it, and what Mr Orlic was just talking about, and he shows in the best possible way, in fact, the true face of the promoter of this amendment but also of the other members of that so-called. The Alliance for Serbia and that part of the opposition, so some don't get angry. We have a few problems when it comes to this amendment, but I'd like to go ahead and take it out. So, first of all, there is a problem and an explanation of the amendment itself. Secondly, what's problematic is what the amendment reads. It shall be deleted in Article 6(4). I have nothing else to do but read the reasoning of the Serbian Government, which has delivered to us in the form of an opinion, which is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 6(4). The bill, the adopted initiative of the "Tijana Juric" Foundation, which was filed with the aim of harsher punishment of the perpetrator of the most serious crimes against life and the bodies and crimes against half-freedom in cases where the death of a child, a minor, was committed by a woman and an powerless person. This is a very important part. In addition, in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, such a legislative solution is possible, provided that there are other appropriate mechanisms for reviewing the penalties imposed, and in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia such mechanisms exist. For example, the Institute of Compassion, where conduct is condemned during the maintenance of the sentence, which is mandatory to be declared by the institution in which the convicted is held a sentence, is precisely one of the most significant circumstances for the decision-making of whether the convicted should be fired early on from the execution of the sentence. What's the problem here, too? One genius of the five signatories, or promoter of this amendment, is Nenad Konstantinovic, who is probably the smartest in their group, was the other day while camping there in the park outside the Serbian presidency, while feeding pigeons, held a press conference. At that press conference, he said this was a very dangerous law. I quote: "Introducing a life sentence without the possibility of parole, there are no minors in any EU country". That's what Konstantinovic says. "There is no among the countries of Europe that are members of the Council of Europe," he said. Be careful now what he says: “We too will have to change that law someday. ” Probably when it comes to power, it means never. "This law constitutes a violation of human rights." So other than all the problems mentioned above, we have another problem here, and that's not true. This doesn't suit the truth. As we could hear from the minister, Mrs Kuburovic, this practice exists in many countries. She also listed Malta, Lithuania, Belgium, the Netherlands as countries with such practices. The biggest problem with this amendment but also the behaviour of that part of the opposition is actually hypocrisy. We couldn't live off their accusations that we didn't want to adopt "Tian's Law", that we're not interested, that we're not moral, that we're not human, that we're protecting murderers and who knows what else they've been doing for years, when it comes to the ruling majority. Today, when we do just that, they're ready to spit on everything they said and what they stood for and not come and defend their amendments, to give us perhaps some argument as to why we should adopt such an amendment. In this way they send a message, their policy comes down only and exclusively, and that is what Aleksandar Vukic stands for, we will be against it, without any explanation, without any argument and whether it is good for the citizens of Serbia or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54347	The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54348	Thank you. The amendment is another example of the hypocritical behaviour of those who, by January of this year and how they supported the Tijana Juric Foundation and the proposal submitted by the Tijana Juric Foundation to the National Assembly, which was supported by nearly 160,000 citizens, and rather after the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, said the government of the Republic of Serbia would fully accept the initiative, changed their opinion. The question arises: did they at the time when they supported and signed a petition know what they were signing, because it was precisely one of perhaps one of the points of conflict between the members of the task force that was formed in December of this year that the question was whether the initiative and the inability of parole for murderers and child rapists should be fully accepted. If they had looked a little bit closer at what they support, they would have known that Tijana Juric's foundation was also and that she insisted that there are no paroles for the four crimes we have foreseen here. What I would like to point out is that the Ministry of Justice, in the course of supplementing the Criminal Code, has been governed by the practice of the member states of the Council of Europe, that we have found that parole in certain countries does not have all the crimes for which life imprisonment is intended. For example, the Netherlands is where absolutely every crime for which life imprisonment is prescribed, life imprisonment means life imprisonment unless they are pardoned by the royal family. So that parole institute absolutely doesn't exist. In the criminal code that's in front of you and we're discussing, parole is the rule. He exists for 14 crimes for which life imprisonment is prescribed. There are not only those crimes involving the murder of children, the murder of pregnant women, the rape of minor children who ended in death, as well as the promise of powerless persons who ended in death. It is very hypocritical of those who are now fighting such provisions, and I remind you that in 2013, when "Maria's law" was passed, when members of the opposition, the very ones who are today against these provisions, voted there was no parole for 10 crimes and there was also a crime involving rape of minors and a promise of powerless persons. There are other crimes that are milder in character than those crimes where today we suggest there is no possibility of parole, and these are the most severe crimes. I'm not going to read the sentence to see what kind of monsters it is, and I'm not going to be so nice, so I can't say it, because I've had a chance to make an insight into some of these cases and the Juric Foundation has, in the course of submitting the proposal, delivered it to the Ministry of Justice. But I'll tell you that it's about people who are mostly returnees, who have already been convicted of multiple crimes of rape, who were convicted of crimes of murder, that it's about bandits, that it's about persons who raped three-year-old girls, who raped girls of 10 years of age. It was precisely one of those who had been sexually experienced by Marija Jovanovic, after which they were killed in the most brutal way by strangulation. I'll remind you that there was also oxygen poisoning, that these corpses were eventually taken to dumps and that some, unfortunately, were very difficult to identify, because they were in a state of decay. So that's exactly why we're prescribing a conditional conviction for such monsters, that is, the inability of parole for such monsters, and certainly, the Republic of Serbia does not deviate by this way from the standards of the countries of the Council of Europe. There are those countries where the inability of parole is also prescribed for political crimes. I believe that you will agree with me that the murder of a child, that killing a pregnant woman, is certainly not a political crime and that these are the acts that cause and the greatest condemnation of the public, and the public has proved this by signing a petition for life imprisonment, and I will remind you that at that moment it was very current and the signing of a petition to reintroduce a death sentence and a number of citizens even supported, however, a campaign on the Internet, but a number of citizens supported the initiative to reintroduce the death penalty for such crimes, rather than supported life imprisonment. I believe that by adopting such a proposal, first of all, we will repay ourselves to the victims and act preventively on anyone who thinks he's committing this kind of crime, and I deeply believe that anyone who is willing to do something like this that I've had the chance to read will not be able to resuscitate, because he won't be able to do it, and he certainly doesn't deserve to be found among free citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54349	Thank you. The 7th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54350	We asked to delete this member, Madam Minister, because the previous solution is better, and I'll explain why. In criminal law, therefore, it is very important that the law itself be passed so that the court can act on it, because the individualization of a criminal offence and this system of relative criminal sanctions has been known since ancient times. It's simply something that can't be applied in this way now by replacing the court's assessment of something that the court can suggest, as you suggest, in assessing the mitigation of the prison sentence. The court may, taking into account the gravity of the crime, the social danger of the crime, the circumstances under which it was committed, the psychological profile of the perpetrator, whether it is the first time that someone commits a crime, whether the returnee, which this member is talking about, points out what kind of person it is and under what circumstances something happened, because this law itself has prescribed a minimum and maximum prison sentence for specific crimes. But that the court points out that in the context of extenuating circumstances, because there are also difficult circumstances in criminal law, we cannot accept this as relevant, because the court can only accept it on the basis of relevant, derived evidence from all the circumstances under which this act was done to assess when making a decision to relieve a person's prison sentence. We can't now because we're going to change the Criminal Code to introduce some terms that aren't appropriate to the situation, which criminal law doesn't recognise anywhere in the world in that way. She also pointed out to you today at the beginning of the debate of Radet's colleagues that we can't do any pathetic things in explaining it, because the Criminal Code must be so codified and so designed that the court without any influence can bring punishment. That is why we are asking, since the court's influence was strong and the punishment was not brought, but rather that Nata Mesarovic said that the sentence, the verdict, was reached, to restore the process for Milorad Ulemek Legija and Zvezdan Jovanovic, because in a politically mounted process they were sentenced to the strictest prison sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54351	The word has the minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54352	Thank you. I believe it's just an oversight. This Article 56 refers to the General Institute for the Facilitation of Penalty, not to returnees. Precision has been carried out just in view of the caselaw. I'm going to give you an example of what the courts take as an extenuating circumstance in respecting and measuring penalties. If it's a doctor of legal science, I don't think it's a circumstance we should be esteeming as a relief. And, when it comes to serious crimes, this particular example that I've just cited to you is something that courts take and state in their judgments when they judge and give sentences. So this is one of the reasons why we've approached a general prison-relieving institute, believing that this will reduce the possibility of free jurisprudence in this part. The judge should appreciate it when measuring the penalty, but when it comes to extenuating circumstances or aggravating circumstances, I think they should be applied as they really deserve, and the fact that a doctor is a legal scientist or not should be an extenuating circumstance when giving a sentence. Once again, I point out, it's not about the returnees, it's about a member who's referring to the prison-relieving institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54353	Right on line, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54354	No one even mentioned, Madam Minister, Doctor of Science, even on the contrary. If you listened carefully, I said that the individualization of every crime, regardless of whether any baker, pharmacist, doctor of science, is appropriate for the court. You, now you've had it in your head probably since the student days or the first criminal code you took into your hands, said exactly what it says in the current law, which you're asking to change. You said - the court will evaluate, and we are asking this amendment to delete this provision which you say the court will consider the circumstances that indicate. So it's not a good word for apparition, it's an appraisal. I haven't even mentioned that this is for the returnees, I've already said if it's about them or if it's about anyone who's been convicted, or who's being tried. Therefore, it is not relevant for the court to point out something, but it is relevant for the court to prove in criminal proceedings and assess that it is necessary for someone to eventually, because of certain, as the bill says here, to reduce the prison sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54355	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54356	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, of course, are one of the most important regulations, namely the law to establish a whole system of penalties, which should not be a law that changes every year. Amendments to the Criminal Code must be comprehensive and must not be partial at all. It should be, and it has to be, one clear, precise law, general and unchangeable. Accordingly, we have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The bill, which refers to a multiple return, has been specified by this legal provision, because legal certainty precisely requires the precision of every legal provision, above all, due to the reduced possibility of abuse in the sentence of prison. When it comes to criminal proceedings, the big problem is the unequal conduct of courts, and it happens that minimum sentences are imposed for very serious crimes. In the course of the debate, an example was set from 2018, where the court for the crime of rape handed down the sentence of house arrest. This is inadmissible and such cases and similar to them must not be repeated. Therefore, it is necessary to specify the procedures for the administration of penalties and it is necessary that we have a Criminal Code which is precise and clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54357	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54358	Dear Vice President, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. However, speaking of this code, let me also say in this amendment a few sentences, which is that amendments and additions to the Penal Code suggest the prerogative of life imprisonment for the most serious crimes, a felony against half-freedom in cases where the death of a child, a younger person, has occurred as a result of the execution of the act, a burden on women and an powerless person. Of course we will all support this amendment or in the largest number and addition of this law. Dear Minister, I am taking the opportunity to present one thought, which is that I consider a life sentence to be prescribed for both the greatest or the most serious crimes against the constitutional order and security of the country, because the existing sentences are very small, which is reflected in the overall stability of our country, if we will, and in the present time. Each country has some particular principles and fundamental values on which its entire state arrangement rests. The violation of these values, such as the relationship to the threat of territorial integrity, the attack on the country's constitutional arrangement, the call for a violent change of constitutional arrangement, as we have now had with these walkers, the attempted murder of the highest state authorities, as we have now had calls for the murder of the president of the state and the Prime Minister, is whether, giving away state secrets. All this damage is reflected in the country and in some ways we can say that it threatens the overall stability of our country. I think that this is what we need in our Criminal Code to decidently amend and to think about changing members from 305 to 321, because these members, in my opinion, are not enough to talk about it, and the penalties that are prescribed, I think, are really insufficient. Even the 1863 book of Milosh’s Penal Code prescribed a death sentence for these serious crimes. Of course, we don't have the death penalty, but we're bringing life into prison. A member of the 1863 Law says, excuse me, I have to quote and link to the current security situation, quote - who deliberately helps to enter Serbia, progress or the success of the enemy will be punished by death, finished quote. Of course, we don't have the death penalty today, but we could give life away, because this is one of the most serious crimes. If we in our Criminal Code, the current, valid, for this kind of crime had predicted a life sentence, it would not have happened to us, when during the bombing of our country by the NATO Alliance, that individuals, or the presidents of political parties of these Alliance for Serbia, would have gone into our enemy countries and persuaded our enemies to bomb our country stronger and faster and kill our children, would have already been in prison for life. This is the essence of the law for more serious crimes. In addition to the president then, DS and lawyer Srdja Popovic, who belonged to the Alliance for Serbia, signed, believe it or not, a document requesting Serbia's bombing along with Margaret Thatcher back in 1993. Instead of serving a life sentence for that, he continued, quoting, and calling Serbia an anus mundi. For citizens to know, it means the asshole of the world, and the Serbian people, what's in the anus, what's in the asshole. You see what we in the Alliance for Serbia are dealing with. Furthermore, in our Criminal Code, I quote -- who by force or in some other anti-constitutional way tries to break off some part of Serbia's territory or part of the territory belongs to another state, will be punished by imprisonment from three to 15 years. I think it's a little three years, because for this crime, for me, it's gonna take a life sentence. If we had this in the Criminal Code, we would not have had Nenad Canak, who said on 5 March 2017, quote - I am ready to recognise the Republic of Kosovo, finished the quote. Imagine, sitting here with us in Parliament. In 1990, Nenad Canak proposed to the president of the Republic, officially his LSV, believe it or not, Austrian Otto von Habzburg and thus humiliated the Serbian state and the Serbian people. His LSV programming document was called the Duke's Republic. Dear People's MPs, these are very serious things, because German diplomat Gerd Arens in his book "Diplomacy on the edge" revealed that Nenad Canak sent Lord Karington and the Conference on Yugoslavia a Memorandum on Vojvodina in which it is said, quoting the Memorandum, that the historic conditions of 1945, when Vojvodina joined Serbia, Yugoslavia, had ceased to apply, and the future of Vojvodina was to become a confederate unit, and if Serbia did not, then would be an independent and independent state, finished quote. You see, if we had put that in our Criminal Code, that man wouldn't be sitting with us in benches, but he'd be in jail now serving life in prison. Furthermore, Cedomir Jovanovic also said on December 12th 2012, I quote - Vojvodina should have full sovereignty and be recognised as an independent country, finished quote. Imagine, Cedomir Jovanovic said on February 29th 2015, quote -- the state of Kosovo is a irrevocable thing that only irresponsible politicians continue to ignore, a final quote. Look, ladies and gentlemen, he's sitting here. Today, when our leadership, the government and the president of the Republic are making superhuman efforts to protect Kosovo and Metohija, to restore it where it belongs, a man sits with us here today in the benches, instead of serving life in prison, he is in our parliament. Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the wolf, the one who walks, who attacked us in 2008, quote -- that Kosovo and Metohija's entry into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for, a quote has ended. He is supposed to sit in custody, not to walk around the world, as a member of the world's criminal gang and launder money, not only for our citizens, but also for the citizens of Europe. Bosko Obradovic, who called for a coup, please imagine, and to arrest and execute the Prime Minister and the president of the state, that we put it in the Penal Code... What's our D.A. doing? They're supposed to be sitting in jail, not in high school. All in all, I'm glad this crime, which today is on the agenda, has been brought to life. I, here, personally advocate that we return life in prison for these crimes when we consider the future of the Criminal Code, because if we did it in the 1990s and '80s, gentlemen, the late Rugova wouldn't be at large when he was or today Thaci and Haradian. We'd be in custody, and the state so-called. Kosovo would not be a state today. That's why I'm warning those who want to separate Vojvodina from Serbia, they should be put under the influence of the Criminal Code, and if not by the changes I'm proposing, if they come, then at least these crimes that are now standing. However, our prosecution is silent, and if punishments are threatened, I think they're very mild, from three to 15 years old. All in all, I'm in favor of this amendment to the law and the return of life in prison for more serious crimes. We hope that in the future, this high parliament will bring life into prison when it comes to the stability of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54359	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54360	I thank the chairman, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers, Mrs Kuburovic, honourable Members of the People, of course, that these amendments, which have been proposed so far, should be rejected for one reason that I will now look back. I'm going to refer to this proposal, so-called Tian's law not on the legal side, but on the judicial-psychiatric aspect, which contributes to life imprisonment without the possibility of pardoning the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, which are taxed in the bill. In a conversation with colleagues from the Special Psychological Hospital in Upper Toponica, which is to remind you of one of the largest psychiatric hospitals in the Balkans, so-called. "The King's Hospital", and based on personal experience, the perpetrators of the most serious crimes are the masquerade of a psychopathic personality. Dr. Robert Hare, an American psychologist, one of the world's psychopathology experts, made a list of the characteristics of a psychopath, where every psychopath has 20 characteristics, and I'll only mention some who qualify them for life imprisonment. First, lack of remorse or guilt. Lack of feeling or consideration for loss, pain and attention of the victim, tendency towards indifference, cold blood and a complete lack of empathy. They generally express contempt and disdain for the victim. Second, the inability to take responsibility for your own actions. That's why it qualify them for life imprisonment. Third, impeachment of parole. You, Madam Minister, as if you've read this scientific paper by Mr. Hare, where he says - the impeachment of parole, because the repetition of the crimes is a wave by the returnees. So unfortunately, there's no cure for psychopaths. Various types of psychotherapy and medication have not produced results. Their retraining with kindness and love is unsuccessful because they do not respond to emotions. Generally, since no good can be expected from a psychopath, then protection measures must be taken, which is what we do with these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54361	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you are familiar with the legal theory that the humanity of a society is being looked at by an analysis of the Criminal Code, or by legislation from a criminal area. Here we need to understand, and one of our colleagues said that there is a death penalty in 10 states, so we have long claimed that they are not human society, that democracy there is only verbally more favoured than it actually exists. What does that mean? We Serbian radicals do not see solving this problem in such a way that everything and everything should be tolerated, but the overall development of a society and humanity is seen as criminal legislation. This does not mean that committing criminal acts should be tolerated. Crimes are not committed by a child who is one day or a few years old, but is already committed by a person when he becomes more mature, even minors. Is it just a problem with the perpetrators? No, he'll be with society as a whole. What colleagues who are a little bit more skilled in the field of health know well where it can come from and what is the case. You know very well that division is in the professional public. We must not ignore it, it was great, on this life sentence, but you said that a key decision was made at that moment by the President of the Republic, who, you said, received a large number of votes in the direct elections. We've already accepted that. Our objections related to the appointment of this law, that is, the law. The fact is that since 2005, when this law was originally passed, he has already suffered 10 interventions, and criminal matter or problems must not be so often subject to changes. It creates one uncertainty. I understand colleagues who say this should also have preventive characters and meanings. That's very important. Criminal sanctions have that significance, and we have to be aware of that, but we also have to take care of those convicts. Article 12 refers to Article 66 of the current law, and we have made one intervention here when it comes to probation. It's one of two measures of court's warning. So, parole and court notice are warning measures against perpetrators of criminal acts and in the position of the 2nd member is said to be criminal offences for which a sentence of 10 years or more severe punishment cannot be imposed. It was in the applicable law. The proposal to amend and supplement this law has brought this border down to eight years. We suggest she be five years old. So for crimes for which a prison sentence is threatened for up to five years, parole can be considered. It shouldn't be over that. Then we're giving meaning to this warning measure. This could also apply to a criminal offence where the prison sentence has been threatened for 20 years, and we say it will be suspended. It's not an adequate measure, and you know that, in addition to carrying out the evidence, determining the facts and their evaluations and the determination, that is, measuring the punishment of one criminal procedural skill, where a large number of courts, although they do it well, but they don't weigh a good sentence and we've had until now in court practice that for the rape of a prison sentence has been threatened by three of the 12 years, and about 67%, if I'm not mistaken, the sentence of three years has been imposed. So we had a law that he said about three to 12 years. In two-thirds of the cases, the judges gave a minimum sentence. That's the problem. That's the problem, too, so it doesn't come to this, that there isn't much room left for the abuse of this norm we've proposed for five years. This doesn't interfere with your concept of changes and addition of the Criminal Code, but I think this is and when the legal theory is being consulted, so now if you did some analysis among the legal experts that apply this law, I'm assuming that a larger number of colleagues would agree that instead of 10, so you're proposing eight, we suggest five, that it be that limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54363	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54364	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here, and today we're listening to the same things again as in the principle debate. So, there's no argument here for either life imprisonment or parole. We've already pleaded and determined a life sentence and a life sentence for such the most monstrous crimes and should be prescribed. But this is where people who obviously don't know what parole is, because one of the few former speakers, MPs from the ruling majority, said that parole should be banned because the crimes that took place in the previous period were unforgivable. What does crime mean in the previous period? We can't now, when we pass this law, condemn people who are already convicted in prison with justice. It is primarily a mistake of the Justice Ministry, because such a law was to come, first in front of the MPs for six months or three months or a certain period before it came to the National Assembly, that everyone would then get to know the legal institutes, the legal system, the solutions, maybe in some other countries, and not three days before, and then we have what we have ahead of us, and then on that basis we have to express our opinion here. And the assessment is, so it is a populist move this, Tijana's law now in 2019, and these people, those 150 and a few thousand, as they signed it, they didn't sign it yesterday, so it's on the agenda today. That's what they handed over in 2017. What's been going on these two years about this law? Which was not voted two years ago when we now see that there is complete unity regarding what this law brings new into our legal system. I don't get it. For or against parole, you can discuss it. But bear in mind that every authority since 2000, and thus today, automatically accepts everything that comes from the requirements for amending the law and amending the legal system from the EU. That's why the Criminal Code changes every six months and all the other laws and introduces some nebuloses, which even have nothing to do with our society and our country, unrelated to the Criminal Code. What are you going to do now if you vote to prohibit parole for criminal acts now provided for by these amendments, what will you do when in six months there is an EU directive or a European Commission that such a thing should exist in our Code in order to open the Chapter that and that? Then we'll meet and then all these people who are talking today against parole will talk about how necessary it is and how humane it is, as if nothing has happened now. You must take care of it and you must remind the Members of the people constantly that the law is passed for the application of the future time, not the application of the past. If you are truly fighting people like this, who are willing to commit such crimes, you must first of all change the atmosphere in a society created by the media, which no one controls, unpunishedly write and publish on television and in the newspaper whatever they want, the greatest possible abomination, to the extent that this has become normal for us today. It's become normal for us to read the paper for 10 days about that child killer, so I know then what he was doing and where he went to school and where he lived and what the neighbors say, and it's a felton special shows with different guests changing, talking about such a monstrous murder of a child. I guess that needs to change, basically. Who publishes morbid images and morbid texts from such a monstrous thing will be punished with two million dinars or 20 million dinars. It would show determination and there would be much less cases like this, not some sick mind, who might think that if he did something like that, he would be the main star in Serbia for the next month. Look at the situation in one also sick environment as far as the media is concerned, and one, I can say freely, to a very radical country, as far as social life is concerned. In Norway, a man kills 92 people, goes to prison, is sentenced to the maximum sentence that seems to be 22 years old. He became the star of the world there. That's where they sell T-shirts with his face. He'll come out of jail one day or he'll write a book in prison and sell it to millions of copies. Do we have to let something like this happen to us here, and it happens to us? That's something to be taken care of. So, I think the sentence of a life imprisonment is appropriate for these crimes, but you have to be careful, to think cold heads when these changes of law are passed, because this is very important to listen to the anger of the public and the attitudes of the public that is absolutely uninformed. Don't think it's a good idea if you want to talk to someone like this. You will not succeed and you will only create a problem in our legal system and then you will be forced to change that when that happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54365	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MP Momo Colaković submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and above all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all the MPs of the SRS have submitted an amendment of similar content, and essentially the same, where we have asked that in the Criminal Code, as a criminal act, a criminal offence incriminates the destruction and spread of the false thesis that genocide took place in Srebrenica. So our proposal is that anyone who publicly believes that genocide occurred in Srebrenica be punished for life in prison. This is indeed an interest right now, it seems of the greatest interest, the national interest, the Republic of Serbia and I must say that I am surprised by the position of our Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives who have said that they have considered these amendments and they believe that this is not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So, fellow lawyers are in this committee and I'm really shocked, and is it in accordance with the Constitution and is it in line with the Serbian state's legal system to allow any vermin of mercenaries in Serbia to go on television, in newspapers, to organise some peace, I don't know what kind of gatherings in Serbia, and to say that Serbs in Srebrenica have committed genocide. We must, my people, prevent it. We must not allow generations, for Serbs as a people to remain marked genocide. Look what's going on, you see what the fake parliament did yesterday? The fake parliament of the Cypriot state, they're making some sort of resolution condemning Serbia for the genocide of KIM? Also, a man to get chilly, listen, watch on TV last night, from one to another television, everyone says the Kosovo Parliament has brought a resolution, as if they're talking about the most normal state in the world, as if they're talking about the most legitimate state in the world. Someone can say that, here, we're now for a verbal delinquent, etc., this goes beyond a verbal delinquent, it's a national interest. You wrote from the ministry that you cannot accept the amendment and you cited Mrs Kuburovic for some formal reasons, because it cannot be part of this article etc. We can accept that, formally, it is possible that it is not included but you know well, and fellow MPs know that the amendment can only infuse that member to whom the government already intervenes. We wanted to draw attention to the fact that we have to do this if not now, then to agree on the next changes, if we don't wait long for the codification, this has to be sanctioned. We, if we go over this and we let everyone at the Marine National Assembly, Canak, Aleksandra Jerkov and the rest of those Ustasha sluts here tell us that Serbs have committed genocide in Srebrenica and we are silent to the MPs. Please, fellow MPs, take this extremely seriously. Look that you are voting for any amendment of our 21 amendments as many as we have submitted, so we can execute, Mrs. Kuburovic, if the MPs are to vote for one of our amendments, we can carry out a legal-technical order so that we can fit it where it fits in with what you have proposed to us here. In any case, we appeal to the MPs, to the government, to the public of Serbia to support us in this. We have to mark it as a felony that will be brought to life for anyone who says there was genocide in Srebrenica. We must not allow Serbs to remain in writing as a genocide people. We're not that. Thank God we didn't. We have never been and never will be, and unfortunately, there has been genocide against the Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54367	National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54368	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code was initiated under the pressure of the People's Initiative i.e. The Tijana Juric Foundation, which supported 158,460 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As a result of the need to bring domestic criminal legislation into line with a recommendation from the international body that represents global standards in the field of combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The Serbian Radical Party views the justified proposal for these changes as it is a modern legal standard, in principle, the most severe punishment - life sentence - life imprisonment. The promoter finally dared to submit the most severe penalties for the most serious crimes. With these proposed changes, all contemporary pains of modern society have been attacked more strongly: abuse and torture, domestic violence, tax evasion, assault on the official, violent behaviour at sports events and public gatherings, traffic and use of intoxicating drugs, bribes and corruption, abuse of official position, endangerment of air traffic, recruitment and training for the conduct of terrorism and their financing. As with all my fellow SRS parliamentary groups, we have submitted an identical amendment to Article 16 of the existing Article 114(1). The draft law after point 11) is added to point 12 – that, in addition to all those criminal acts for sanctioning the most severe penalty, anyone who imposes and propagates the thesis that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. The Serbian Radical Party does not dispute that a crime took place in Srebrenica but not genocide as did a crime in Bratunac, as did many other similar crimes. We condemn every crime no matter where it comes from, but we must not accept the claim that both foreign and domestic enemies of the Serb people would label us a genocide people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54369	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54370	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, which submitted the SRS parliamentary group to the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law, proposed amending Article 16. The 16th Proposer wants to amend Article 114 of the basic law and the SRS proposes to add point 12 to this amendment – anyone publicly claiming that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. To make it more clear to the citizens of Serbia why we are proposing this amendment, I will remind you that SRS President Vojislav Seselj has repeatedly explained that there has been a death of Muslim prisoners but there has been no genocide. The genocide story has been deliberately staged to cause the Serbian people irreparable damage. The belief that there were no genocides in Srebrenica must be defended in every place because there are several reasons why genocide could not happen. The first reason they were shot there was only prisoners of war, there were no children or women. It's something that should not be approved but cannot be called genocide. An individual can't be the executioner of genocide, it can only be a state or a parade. Efforts to create an impression of genocide in public opinion are attempts to accuse the Serbian state and the Serb people along with Republika Srpska. What's important is to point out who's trying to make such an impression on the money of foreign intelligence services, NGOs in Serbia, there are some who carry rumors that there were genocide in Srebrenica. That's what some newspapers, some electronic media and individuals do completely uninterrupted. That is why the SRS wants to contribute to the legal impact of such an amendment, under the most severe criminal penalty, and the representatives of the authorities would have to reconsider and accept these amendments once more well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54371	The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54372	What is evident is that this problem is not from a few years ago, the problem of blaming or putting Serbia and the Serb people into genocide or genocide. This problem is still, which would have been said in the last century, because in the 1990s, when Paddy Ashdown, as a senior representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, forced the Republika Srpska parliament to vote something that was a counterfeit to form the basis for Republika Srpska to be a genocide because it would be the shortest and most convenient way to make that so-called. The international community disputed the existence of Republika Srpska, and then a link was sought to link Serbia, which is the complete Serb Corps to this genocide that was allegedly made in Srebrenica. We from the SRS warned that it was not a bit naive, that it should be taken seriously, but it reminds us as it was when the story of the Golo Islands and the Golo Island began, then the communists legally banned talking about the subject at all. The neocommunists did something similar after 2000. They legally defined that the court's decision must not be commented, and only for the reason that any decision by the UN tribunal, the fact that at least personal to a court or a regulated body, is to be commented. And the UN tribunal ruled on an individual's case that the Republika Srpska Army committed genocide in Srebrenica. And now this wave is spreading by placing Serbia in the genocide countries, as everyone in the former SFRY has found it right, and lately it is the strongest in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, the quasi state of Kosovo, accusing Serbia of committing genocide in Kosovo and Metohija, by defending territory from terrorist attacks now Serbia has come into the situation that we have to justify ourselves. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party is using this opportunity to introduce a provision into the Criminal Law that anyone who publicly, in a public place, propagates this insane idea that a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica, to be punished for life in prison. It is something that should in any case protect the integrity and sovereignty of both Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54373	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54374	Thank you. In Article 16. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code should also be added to point 12, in Article 114, point (b) of Article 114, which reads as follows: "Every person who claims that genocide occurred in Srebrenica". It should be sanctioned by the strictest punishment, the life sentence. To claim today that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica is a classic example of betrayal, which is one of the most serious crimes in any country and in all legal systems. Since there is no high penalty in Serbia for the act of treason, the placement of lies about the non-existent genocide in Srebrenica has become easy, very lucrative and unfortunately a job that takes place uninterrupted. Insistent repetition of the so-called The genocide is trying to get this phrase into everyday speech, not to think about it, but to accept it in principle - hello for granted. So, without a conversation, it is necessary to accept someone else's falsified installation of a war episode, which would brand the entire Serbian people as a genocide people and shut down Republika Srpska as a product of the crime. These are the true intentions of the world's largest part of the public, and here's wines against their own people in the image of Natasa Kandić, Staša Zajević, Sonja Biserko and such persons emit great anxiety when they are confronted with the language of fact. They just don't care about the truth. By lying about Srebrenica, these traitors are tasked with rounding up the entire construction of Western forces, otherwise to justify supporting Muslims in BiH, or that Croatia has been admitted into the EU with all crimes committed in all wars, and by the crime of genocide, twice committed. However, the truth must once win, and a great contribution to this and how Professor Vojislav Seselj gave in his study on over 3,000 sides, titled "There was no genocide in Srebrenica", by revealing true and verifiable facts. This government, unlike the previous ones, understands the seriousness of the situation, but does not take whatever it takes to solve an extremely serious problem, both by the people and by the state. That is why I believe that accepting this amendment would protect the state and national interests as the greatest good of state and people. This is particularly important in light of the fact that BiH High Representative Valentin Inzko announced that he would propose the introduction of a law that would punish the denial of genocide in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54375	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54376	Thank you. In addition to these good solutions provided for by this amendment and by supplementing this Criminal Law, where children and these monstrous crimes that have been happening in our last years and who have somehow passed almost daily, I am sorry only, personally as a parent, which cannot be applied retroactively. In addition to these solutions, however, one of the most important national issues, one of the parliament's most important national tasks is to prevent the spread of lies that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. Since there are people on the political scene who are most likely paid in every day's media, because no common sense can speak against their country, against their people in the way they say it, which means that we are genocide, that we are a criminal people, so there can be no other motive than money, means they are paid people. We believe that in Article 114 after point 11) where all the crimes of 1-11 are mentioned, point 12 should be added) where the crime will be clearly added that anyone who publicly says that genocide occurred in Srebrenica will be the most severely punished. What's very important is that we should travel, our children should travel, Serbia should develop, we are and we should be one democratic, modern society and it wouldn't do us any good, so we're free of any new law, we're free of anything we bring to this assembly, so let's do it best, if on our passport, wherever we go, it's invisibly written -- crime. And on each of us and on each of our passports, it'll say we're criminals. Therefore, what this Serbian parliament needs to do is introduce this crime and punish it most severely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54377	National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54378	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the crime that took place in Srebrenica does not fit into the definition of genocide that implies the planned destruction of an entire ethnic or religious group. There is no testimony that Republika Srpska had such a plan at all. Even if she had, according to the genocide definition, he had to cover the entire territory of Serbia, not just one municipality. It is clear to this Serbia and the West, so why so much pressure from the West that Serbia admits that genocide took place in Srebrenica? Because if Serbia gives in, it would serve America as a key justification for all crimes committed against Serbs. That's why Serbia should have said there were genocide in Srebrenica and thus helped America sweep up on their violence. That hasn't happened yet, but Serbia is silent. Keep quiet to the media, keep quiet to the individuals, keep quiet to the West. Shut up like he doesn't have a clear attitude. Maybe not. We'll know that unless any of the amendments of Serbian radicals to Article 16 are accepted. And during that time, the Hague paperwork is being moved, no less, than to Sarajevo. In our media, it's been pretty undetected. Why don't you stay in The Hague, where two courts found genocide in Srebrenica? Why doesn't he move to New York? The United Nations is the founder of this court. Or Washington, who's funding him? The reason is clear. In the Netherlands and America, the right to information is guaranteed and all of these materials would be available to the public, and in Sarajevo they will make sure that they hide everything that genocide leads to suspicion. That is why Serbia must no longer remain silent and should clearly say there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Serbia must protect its people from declaring the world genocide. If Serbia won't, who will, Russia again? It is a shame for Serbia to be silent about these slanders. Here is the opportunity for Serbia to finally give its answer by adopting this amendment and punishing anyone who says that genocide took place in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54379	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54380	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 of the existing Article 114, paragraph 1, of the bill, where point 11 is added to point 12 and reads - Any person publicly saying that genocide occurred in Srebrenica should be punished for life in prison. The amendment defends the truth that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Will we allow Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, and some MPs, various media and others to spread lies that the Serb people committed genocide in Srebrenica? The state and national interest is to prevent the most severely threatened punishment from propagating a false stance that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. The state has an obligation to institutionally defend its own interests and that anyone who says publicly there was genocide in Srebrenica should know that he is facing a life sentence. Such an attitude defends the status of Republika Srpska, but also the whole Serbian people, who by imposing a fictional thesis, want to be declared criminal and genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54381	National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54382	As my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group have already pointed out, we are not opposed to tightening the sanctions foreseen for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. Children are the most valuable thing we have, and rapists, child murderers and perpetrators of other serious and cruel crimes are hardly able to resociate and return to normal social life flows, although that possibility, even if theoretically, should be left to them. Since we all agree that children are the greatest treasure, because they are a guarantee of the survival of the state and the nation, the question arises – how to treat a crime committed against the state itself? Such a crime is also a crime against all Serbian children, against all decent hosts and Serbian patriots, which is to label our country as genocide. We know that the court in The Hague unfairly tried Serbs and that members of our people there were sentenced to over 1,000 years in prison, exactly 1.138.5 years, and that members of all other nations together were sentenced to a threefold lower amount of punishment. The UN tribunal is certainly a political court that judges based on the influence of major Western forces, not on legal facts and arguments. Many Serbs are sentenced without guilt, and even if there is guilt somewhere, it can only be individual and not collective. The people can't be genocide, and they're not genocide, nor can the state be treated as genocide and criminal. We cannot prevent foreigners from labeling us, but we can and must seduce order in our country by sanctioning all those who claim that genocide took place in Srebrenica, which are only the declared members of our people. If lying about the alleged genocide in Srebrenica does not sanction the most severe penalties, we will quickly come into the situation that those who will also accept the recently adopted Shiptar Resolution on the alleged genocide committed at KIM in 1998 and 1999, because these people who target Serbia as a genocide for money are doing everything, and it is your duty and obligation to prevent them from doing so, and do not fear that you will change and supplement the criminal code in which you will put this provision away from Serbia from the EU. All research shows that most Serbian citizens certainly do not want to join the EU, and it has proved countless times that the EU does not want Serbia as its full member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54383	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as far as the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Code is concerned, the SRS finds it unwarranted that so much has been pending its adoption and that only under pressure on the Tijana Juric Foundation's initiative is proposed amendments and additions to this law, which prescribe a life sentence for the most serious crimes. Why has it waited so long when almost all EU countries, except for Spain and Portugal, Norway, which is not a member of the EU, know this punishment for the most serious crimes, such as murder, rape, the promise of children and powerless persons. We heard the other day, and among those who consider themselves champions of democracy and human rights struggles in America, in their state of Alabama, a sentence has been brought to life for doctors who write or make abortions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as all my colleagues from the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 of the proposed law requiring that the most severe punishment be given to anyone who is publicly ensuing and propagating the claim that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, with an explanation that national national interests must be protected by the most severe sentences of prison. What others have been doing, trying to keep moving to our backyards, making up war crimes courts and some resolution for genocide in Kosovo, or putting their legal systems in full service to justify or minimise their own guilt. The SRS does not dispute that a crime took place in Srebrenica, as it did in neighbouring Bratun, but genocide was not there. No one so dedicated, thorough and detailedly addressed the subject of Srebrenica as our president has repeatedly, for many years, on thousands of sides, denied the thesis of genocide in Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54385	National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54386	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all MPs of the SRS have tabled an amendment to Article 114. The criminal code and we are asking for a new legal provision to be introduced into the Criminal Code and we are proposing another crime that will be punished by the strictest life sentence for anyone who publicly claims that genocide took place in Srebrenica. We Serbian radicals were the first to say that there was a crime in Srebrenica, and we never wanted to cover it up, but we do not allow it to be exaggerated and called genocide, that the whole Serbian people should be hatched. The crime that took place was not committed on behalf of the Serbian people and the Serbian people and Serbia, which is why they cannot be collectively blamed. The Serbs were never a genocide people, and therefore we must prevent all those foreign mercenaries and enemies of the Serb people who, with lies and malicious rumors, want to spread a disgusting lie, that genocide took place in Srebrenica. The state is obliged to institutionally protect its own interests and therefore anyone who claims to have been genocide in Srebrenica must know that he is facing life imprisonment. It's the only way to protect your own people and states from the lasting unimaginable consequences of the future generation. The state must institutionally react against imposing an imaginary thesis aimed at declaring the Serbian people criminal and genocide. Therefore, we invite you to adopt one of the amendments of the SRS to Article 114. A criminal code, because it will thus protect the state from the leprosy that could be permanently applied to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54387	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54388	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The Code of Criminals proposal, and it may seem to someone that my colleagues and I in the SRS are exaggerating when it comes to this, but it really isn't, because it's a very serious thing. This thing we're talking about here may have long-term consequences for the Serbian people, perhaps even for a few centuries in advance. Genocide is a serious thing, it's a difficult word, and by all international conventions it's clear what genocide is and if you see what happened in the Srebrenica area, no one will deny crime, no one normal can deny crime, but it wasn't a crime of genocide. So we must be aware that the Serbian people live in an environment that is supported by Western world powers and whose interests are at odds with the interests of the Serbian people. We see that these days, and the Shiplars have brought some sort of resolution, and they want to claim that there was genocide there, and if we just go over this, who knows what can happen in the perspective. The thing about forcing genocide is directly directed against the Republika Srpska and the people in Republika Srpska, and the Serbian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a heroic people who have won the right to their freedom and the right to their country, and no one has the right to respect it. So, all those who claim that genocide occurred, because it's clear to all of us that the genocide was not, the crime was, the crime should be condemned from all sides, but it's not about genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54389	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian people made a great sacrifice in the 20th century. It is a people who survived genocide during World War II in the Independent State of Croatia. It is the people who have suffered most throughout the 20th century, who are brutally and forcefully dispersed into several states and who, in the end of the 20th century, survived something called humanitarian bombing. The consequences of humanitarian bombing were the occupation of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. After all that the Serbs have been through, it is still undoing it, trying to spit on Serbian poverty, on our victims and on our history, above all, through a quasi of a legal institution called The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal has given itself the right to write our history and make of us as a people of the monster, to make of the Serbs a genocide nation, to lay the basis for the abolition of Republika Srpska, that, something that would mark us follow us in the future. I need a great fight against it. We need to clearly determine ourselves according to the UN tribunal's political rulings, we need to know that they do not think us well, that they are not even interested, as is the case in their Statute of Justice, like any other court, but reconciliation in these areas and that reconciliation means – Serbs are guilty of everything, Serbs are genocide and Serbs are to blame for having suffered so much. We have recently seen, that is, yesterday what the authorities of the terrorist, so-called Republic of Kosovo are doing and what is happening in their assembly. It is now no longer considered to prove, show or explain, but as an example of mass rape and genocide, images of pornographic films are shown explaining that these are images of the Serb mass rape. We came this far because there was no reaction from Belgrade to everything that was going on. I would remind you that the Russian Federation has prevented the UN from delivering a resolution in the Security Council that marks Serbs as a genocide nation. We have to fight it, we have to show and prove it in every place, we tell us what happened to us in this space, not that, in addition to everything that's happened to us from both Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina and from many Western states, we also have people in Belgrade who are willing to say that Kosovo is independent and that Serbs committed genocide in Srebrenica and that Serbs committed mass rapists, and so on, because whoever says that Srebrenica was genocide, the one who says and who agrees that Serbs made ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija, that they made mass rapes of Albanian national women is as much an enemy to us as Kadri Veseni and Flora Brovin. I appeal to be adopted by this member who provides for a life sentence for every Serbian citizen who says that genocide has occurred in Srebrenica in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular that it is always clearly determined against all pressures and against all traitors who are in Belgrade and who are able to say such a thing. It should be made clear that these are people who are working in the foreign interest, who are heavily financed from abroad, and it is clear if there is something to be paid for, a position to represent in Serbia, it is clear that it is at our expense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54391	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Professor Marko Atlagic has the word. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54392	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, allow me to join this debate, perhaps not as a man of politics, more like a man of science, and only four sentences because of my time not to take away my colleagues. I claim as a man of science and as a man that in Srebrenica gonocide did not occur, but that there was a terrible crime and there was no dilemma. This is neither political nor legal, but an assessment from the position of science. Not a single condition of the definition of Srebrenica genocide has fulfilled, especially the binding one, which is the intention of committing a crime -- a dolus specialis, and if there is no such intention, and there are two binding conditions, the genocide has no, even the number doesn't matter, if it has a number, three times that it was, and there is no intention, genocide no. Secondly, I was going to say one more sentence, which is that The Hague tribunal is the largest legal, greatest historical and greatest political freak that could have been taken out by the so-called so-called. the international community. Do you know who created this UN tribunal? Theodore Meron, the criminal. Not to say when it first came to the idea that the Hague tribunal was formed not to judge individuals, but to quote it politically, before Dayton, political leaders of all Serbian countries, because it says -- the people behind them -- that's the only way to get them out of power. A finished quote, etc. Thirdly, let's leave the events of historical history to be evaluated by true historians, not journalists or journalists analysts, especially the analysts of charlatans, and then we will really come to terms with reconciliation in these Balkan spaces that are very much needed. I advocate the pedagogy of peace in the Balkans, not to interpret what it is. I say this about genocide as a man who wrote several works on genocide against the Serb people, and I specifically studied the concept of genocide. I admit that the only thing he knows more about this concept than I do is Professor Vojislav Seselj, because I saw what he wrote about it and how much he studied. So I repeat, there was a terrible crime in Srebrenica, but not genocide, because no notion of the definition of genocide is fulfilled, especially the first basic one, which is the intention. That's why I've reported that, in some ways, as a man of the profession, I'll contribute to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54393	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54394	The right to reply, thank you, but, above all, within this replica, I would like to say that it encourages discussion from the ruling majority, just the one Mr. Marko Atlagic had just said. Mr. Atlagic, it is a legal and political question, but you are right, above all, a question of scientific proof and I think that no one who is a lawyer, no one who has read a serious book, no one who is more serious about politics and any science is not in the dilemma. It is clear to everyone that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. He mentioned Mr. Atlagic and the president of the SRS, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. He has already written two volumes of otherwise trotomical work called "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". It ends soon and that last one. When it's all over, there's no one alive who'll read those books, I suppose, Mr. Atlagic, that you've read those two that have already been finished, there's no one alive who'll be able to read those books and think that there's genocide in Srebrenica. So there was no genocide and there was no dispute, there was no dispute between normal people, there was no dispute among people who know something, who can read the definition of genocide, so they translated it into the Srebrenica case, but our amendments are and therefore I expect Mr Atlagic to probably vote for one of these amendments. That's why we want what we all know and that nobody here is disputed, there was no genocide in Srebrenica, but we just want to sanction everyone who goes out in public and says -- Serbs committed genocide in Srebrenica. Such a statement is a terrible crime against Serbs, according to the Serbian people, to the state of Serbia, towards Republika Srpska. We therefore think that the state must institutionally protect itself from such, and the only way to do so is to make this a crime and that anyone who says that Srebrenica was a genocide must know that he will be facing life imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54395	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54396	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above us is the spirit of Slobodan Stojanovic, if I am not mistaken, the little Gajic of four years, who watch from above with their spirit what we are doing here. Srebrenica is a sensitive subject. There was a crime in Srebrenica as a result of the Srebrenica crime. Everything that happened three years around Srebrenica, and something that happened before World War II, when Serbs in the Srebrenica Municipality were the majority, and after the war, according to communist ideology, became minorities, but for their ideology, for an unknown reason, became a minority. So, from most before World War II, after World War II, they became a minority. The minority was the result of a terrible crime committed by the SS “Hanghar Division. ” This historic memory of Serbs in Srebrenica and Srebrenica around 3,500 civilians, including Elfeta Veseni's victim, Slobodan Stojanovic, resulted in 3,500 Serbs losing their lives, and more than two thousand do not fit the war profile, that they could be soldiers. They were either too old, or they were too young or they were women. That's why you need to think about some kind of punishment. I am not for such a drastic punishment, but I am for the punishment that those who claim, like Sanda Raskovic Ivić, that Srebrenica was genocide, must answer in front of this country. This assembly has brought the Declaration, I think, to me, about the fact that a crime took place in Srebrenica and I will not stand down from it. I won't step away from it, but I won't let any Serbs call the genocide people. We didn't break multiethnic society. I wasn't a communist, but the communist Yugoslavia was a multiethnic society, whether they wanted to admit it or not, whether it was under threat of force, whether it was in dictatorship. Anyway, that country was multiethnic. The ethnic states were not made by Serbs. Serbs were guarding a multiethnic state, preventing multiethnic cleansing. The ethnic states made those who thought democracy was an imperial product, so that it could be easily introduced into the former Yugoslavia and they, breaking down the SFRY, made ethnic states. Those who today say they're against crossing borders, they've cut those boundaries. They made a state out of herd. Whose herd, that's the meadow. They started with that principle. The Serbs were against it. They were clearly against it. The Serbs were an armature of a former multiethnic state called the SFRY. Those who did this divided the Yugoslav peoples and turned them against each other. The result is crimes, mostly against Serbs. Serbia is the only country in the former SFRY that has not changed the ethnic picture. I'm proud of it. Everyone else is. The Serbs are the most brutal ethnically cleansed. Over a million Serbs no longer live in the territories where they lived, and Serbs, who have been ethnically cleansed, have been declared to have ethnically cleaned, which is false. Serbs defended themselves and sometimes exaggerated in that defense. The right to sacrifice is to equality. It must be expressed in this assembly under the ear of Slobodan Stojanovic, who also has the right to justice, as well as other silver victims. You can't have less and more valuable victims. I, when Mr. Putin was here, came here for one reason to welcome him, because he prevented, because Russia prevented this assembly, that the Serb people, from being a representative of the genocide people. You have to keep that in mind. I don't know, I'm going to vote for this amendment, because I believe that at this point most will estimate that punishment is too harsh. Most of us think it should be a crime, but I personally think that punishment is too strict, that it should be limited, say five to ten years in prison, because such a crime can be caused by drunkenness, fighting, etc., but for all victims, including Muslim and Serb, I will vote that there are no false genocides, that there are great crimes and that all victims have the right to equality and that all murderers, regardless of religion and nation, should be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54397	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on your behalf a delegation of the parliamentary group of friendships with Serbia's Parliament of the Republic of Korea, which is in the official visit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. Let's move on. Ljubisa Stojmirovic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54398	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am one of those citizens of Serbia who, without any thought at all, says in every place and in front of everyone that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, and I will always stand behind that attitude. On the other hand, I am also for everyone who has committed crimes to be punished, no matter what side they are on. I think this amendment is something that is good for both this Assembly and Serbia. I wouldn't go into the length of a sentence that's determined to do this part, but I would support it and say the obligation of all intellectuals to be patriots and to respect and love their country. Serbia is kind to those who spit on it, whether it is those who are from Serbia or who are outside Serbia, and therefore we must take a firm stand and make it clear to everyone who we are, what we have done and what we haven't done. However, we somehow easily pass through these slanders and lies and allow any rusticness to take us into our mouths and revil us, to attribute us to the most disgusting crimes. Maybe this is the time for us all to get into some reasonable state of mind and say, enough is enough, we won't let them insult us without any basis. I believe that, if not today, in some recent future, we will still do something to stop these tendencies, in which Serbia is just spit, in which Serbia is portrayed as a criminal, genocidal and similar country. I think it's about time we did something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54399	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54400	So he is really looking forward to having colleagues from the ruling majority support our amendments or one of the amendments, it is totally irrelevant, because they are essentially the same. Again, what Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Atlagic have said again, Mr. Stojmirovic said, so there is no dispute that there was no genocide in Srebrenica. What do we expect now? It's a slow height of punishment. We can talk about reducing the sentence. We think it is, indeed, the most terrible crime, because it is not only for this moment, but also for future generations, which will come much after us and nowhere can we be written that we Serbs are a genocide people, because we are not and because there was no genocide in Srebrenica. So, if the ruling majority is willing to vote for one of these amendments, we can agree that this punishment that we have predicted, that we change one of the amendments to be some minor punishment. Maybe at this point it's formal, according to the Rules of Procedure, a little difficult to implement, but it's such a significant question that we can even make some common agreement to do it, to meet the board again, etc. Perhaps it would be even better if Mrs. Kuburovic, on behalf of the government, told us that this is acceptable to her too, so that we can see together that we can make a proposal for punishment and a specific criminal offence. In fact, this is the name of a crime, there was no genocide in Srebrenica, and it must not be said publicly, so that a range of punishments such as someone, did Marian say, can be said in drunkenness, in contention, etc., so that a range of penalties can be taken to measure some extenuating, difficult circumstances, etc. It's important for us to convince you to create this climate, to create this atmosphere, that the government, that the government actually accepts the majority of the congregation, there's no reason why we're afraid to incriminate this as a crime. This has nothing to do with any denial of the right to speak. Of course, counterpart Risticevic remembered well, Sanda Raskovic Ivić said on TV in Sarajevo that there was a genocide in Srebrenica. Then he's a People's Messenger, we don't know exactly whose, but the People's Messenger. So now that she's gone to Sarajevo for federal television or where she's been even though they say -- here, the MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia says she was genocide in Srebrenica. It can't go through without punishment. She will certainly be punished for this and the citizens in the next election so she will never be an MP again, but despite political condemnation there must be a criminal conviction. Here, I only end with this sentence, please and Mrs Kuburovic and fellow MPs from the ruling majority, let's sit down and talk, let's agree here that this is acceptable, and then for some of the following changes we formulate both criminal acts and sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54401	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54402	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues, I'll just remind you that we can't look at everything with emotion and only from a political aspect, but we have to act a little bit like lawyers, especially in these situations when it comes to the discussion of amendments and the possibility of these amendments being incorporated into the existing law at all in the way that it is proposed. What is indisputable is that most members of this parliament believe that the genocide in Srebrenica was not, but the way the amendment was proposed to be in perspective if, in some cases, an integral part of the crime committed by a serious murder, it is absolutely legally impossible to perform and place it in that space. I can understand the need to talk about this and this is something to talk about at many different levels right now. So, it's not just a matter of easy commentation that there were genocides in Srebrenica by many in Serbia, but a right to tell you, it's even been even more disturbing for me lately than at the Public Service and many national televisions have been using the terms absolutely unauthorized and inappropriate as "Kosovo", as "president of the Republic of Kosovo" instead of "so-called". The creations of the Shipar which was made down as it is." These are all things to talk about. It's a good thing it's started to talk about it, but it's absolutely impossible for a legal amendment like this to become an integral part of this part of the law, which, I say, has been colloktically attacked by an amendment proposed by colleagues from the SRS. Unfortunately, with all the cruelty, sometimes we really have to look at things as lawyers, although at some point emotions are completely on the other side and desires that we would like to make through the discussion, not only, but through what we turn to paper is very different from what it says. Otherwise, I'd just say the next thing. There are enough crimes in the current law that if the public prosecutor's office were a little more serious about their work, there is room for many such serious claims to be processed, regardless of whether the MPs, whether they are anywhere in politics, for whatever reason they have mentioned, because I can agree that what we listen to many times is not a scientific debate, are not theories whether it was or not, but an absolute claim that should only be done to the Republic of Serbia and Serbs as a people, wherever they live, not only in the territory of Serbia and Republika Srpska, but in the whole world. So I think there's more to this segment to talk about why the prosecution didn't start this kind of thing, because I really think that space and elements have something to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54403	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54404	As a lawyer, for example, I would never call this law, the proposal we're discussing today, because this is a law amending the Criminal Code. As a lawyer, in the first amendment, I said that I understood why the ministry, or government, is why they said they couldn't accept the amendment for formal reasons. As a lawyer, I also know, you will agree, colleague Komlenski, according to our Rules of Procedure, we cannot intervene on a member to whom the government has not given the intervention. The government intervened on this member who was the closest thing to any possibility of adding what we predicted as a crime. I repeat, we don't mind agreeing, we could do this on the board and before the board and so on, see if we can get the government's consent to change another member, so this can fit in. So this was like a lawyer. Yeah, and this is gonna be like a lawyer in the end. Freedom of expression can be limited by law if it is necessary to protect the rights and reputation of others, safeguard the authority and impartiality of the court and protect public health, the morals of democratic society and the national security of the Republic of Serbia. So, Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I quoted the 2nd position, obliges us to accept such an amendment, or one such member to be formulated. As a man, as a patriot, as a nationalist, as someone who wishes well to his people wherever he is, and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, as someone who deals with politics to leave a trail in politics and not to be negative, as someone who cares very much that after us about our people there is nowhere to be written that he has committed genocide, and not, we must say, we ask that he is institutionally protected by that state in such a way that no one can say, or may say, but that he knows that he is facing a serious prison sentence. That's what we insist on, and that's what we expect. I'm saying again, if it's impossible in your opinion to do it today, at least let's say we'll do it for another session. Although I still think this is what we should vote for, for one of our amendments. It's easy for us to carry out the legal-technical order, colleague Komlenski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54405	Thank you. The right to replica has George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54406	Thank you. I'll just remind myself that one of the more adequate options was that what each of the MPs had was entitled to be individually, and especially as a political group, to propose a law on amendments and additions to laws that could be quite well placed, so that we can see who would support it and who wouldn't. Why? Because we also suggested making a decision to form a commission that should investigate and determine the exact number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. We wait for this to come to the congregation’s agenda very patiently, although we have repeatedly expected that some other state bodies might do so. But we don't have to wait for everything to happen to the Serbian government. Of course, as MPs, we have the opportunity to launch the initiative in this way. We too expect the support of all those who are well-intentioned in this assembly and are considering Serbia's well-being, to do such a job. Among other things, such a job, as we will do in this way, if we prevent unfounded Serbia from accusing itself of any genocide in Srebrenica, in the same way that anyone can manipulate the number of victims of NATO aggression in Serbia in 1999 and that it remains something that is completely clear, well and entirely undermined, so that we do not suffer now any inventions and biddings of how many Serbs died in Jasenovac, whether they were labor camps and that I do not list all the idiots we are forced to listen to even by some statesmen who in this way really deeply insult the feelings of the Serbian people and all those other nations who have suffered in such camps or in such crimes that have occurred in the past. And someone before us missed the exact number of victims in an unequivocal way, that simply no one can question it tomorrow. Therefore, both these legal opportunities and business opportunities exist. Therefore, we expect the initiative in this direction, because indeed, the committee would not be seen in the way that it was declared when it came to this amendment, but would have to look on the formal-legislative side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54407	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were talking about human rights. Right to life, right to freedom, right to security, that's universal human rights. I don't understand people or a man who can kill another man because of religious differences, national differences, cheerleading differences, and the worst thing is to kill a man because of other faiths. If you believe in something, then you have to believe in the right to live. That's not what Elfeta Happy believed, but that doesn't mean we stop believing. The right to life is undeniable. There's a nation out there, there's a country that almost wiped out an entire human race - Indians. There's a country there that certainly committed genocide, except there wasn't a crime at the time. It's called Hiroshima and Nagasaki. There's one nation, there's one state that did it. I am proud that the Serbian state and the Serbian people did not. Read John Schindler, one of the CIA's chiefs, what he says about Srebrenica. He says it wasn't genocide. He says, even though he was a member of the administration whose boss was Clinton. Don't forget that Clinton and Ali Izetbegovic arranged for the fall of Srebrenica, where there was a terrible revenge for the murder of more than 3,000 Serbs in and around Srebrenica. It was a crime that couldn't justify a previous crime, but it wasn't genocide. He may have been for Sanda Raskovic Ivić and her boss Vuk Jeremic, probably now and for Djilas and Bosko Obradovic. It wasn't for me, although the markings of genocide have what happened around Srebrenica, because the unselective killing of the entire village's population, the entire municipality of one, unselective, from the youngest to the oldest. In Srebrenica, fortunately, civilians were immediately separated, and potential military personnel who could be in the military, who could commit those crimes were the subject of Serbian operations and a crime took place. We don't deny it and the Declaration of the Assembly that a major crime took place in Srebrenica. We won't hide from it. We don't need to hide our criminals at all. Those who killed must answer. Also, I insist that those who killed Serbs must respond too, that someone who beastly cuts a boy, slaughters him, cuts his stomach in the shape of a cross, can't be sentenced to just 10 years. Those who convicted him spit on their professional, legal school and law school, those who sentenced him to such a fine. We clearly say it was a crime, but it was arranged by Clinton and Ali Izetbegovic. For Clinton, we are all collateral damage and he uses the former Yugoslav peoples against each other. I disagree with that, but I cannot agree that Serbs have committed genocide in Srebrenica. I am for being punished, but I think the punishment in the proposed amendment is too great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54409	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Grodan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54410	I just want to agree with my colleague, Verica Radet, with my colleague, Steve Peric, who made this very clear. I believe that everyone, especially our generation who is a legal profession, must, intellectuals, I don't know who said that from colleagues, to realize that this people and this state must be protected. I ask our Minister of Justice to pass on to our president, we have received information that he will be on Monday, he is a lawyer by profession, that you have understanding, that the law can be passed, and I believe that, as a lawyer, this amendment can be adopted today, but if it should be procedured, please do not look at the formalities... Anyone who wants to politically skip something, he's starting a commission. So, we're setting up a commission, it doesn't have to be arranged, so when the commission gets here, we leave the government, it doesn't matter, then 50 other commissions will go. This is an extremely important thing for this country. The Srebrenica, please, there's documentation, we're not going to count it in the head right now, but there's a number of victims, so we don't talk about children without parents who are totally baptized, murdered, tortured. It's something that's not in mankind's history that could have happened. I ask most beautifully that this government has an understanding headed by President Mr. Vukic, to find out about it, as my colleague Radeta said, we are generationally here, that woman perfectly legal, we have all seen as humans, that there must be patriotism for this country that is muddying to the maximum. It's more inadmissible, not politically, not legally, not human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54411	Thank you, Comrade Banac. The word is Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54412	I wanted to say why I won't vote for this amendment. The explanation and explanation were given by my colleague Komlenski. He's a lawyer, I'm a mathematician. I've been on one committee and another and I think it's unacceptable at this point that such an amendment will fit into this law. What you radicals are saying is true. I'm glad most of you were saying to be out of this assembly, to let the public hear what we think about it. Everything you said I mean and I support, but on the legal side, legally, we have to respect the law, we have to respect the Constitution, and I can't vote, but I welcome and congratulate you for having the courage, for spending a lot of time, for being unique and saying what I think and for saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54413	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54414	Dear colleagues, this may be one of my favorite moments as a MP for two reasons. I was born in Srebrenica, a graduate lawyer. Since these questions have been raised here, I may be able to, and I've always told the truth, you know, make a small contribution and those who have a little delay in this problem. Since 1995, many enemies of the Serbian people have been trying to satanicize the Serb people in general, no matter where they live -- in Republika Srpska, in Republika Srpska, in Serbia or somewhere in the world, it is a constant attempt. We do not dispute here the real family of the Muslim people who have suffered the victims. I often go to the village where I was born and talk to Muslims, my neighbors. They had victims and I had victims. The search for truth, to determine how the victims have become, no one disputes that. We say there was no genocide in Srebrenica. It's an SRS stance, but as far as I could hear from this public debate, that's actually the attitude of every decent citizen of Serbia. The consequences that the Serbian people and Serbia would suffer are permanent if we do not prevent this. We are looking for the incrimination of this as a criminal offence, public exposure, and above all concerns the citizens of Serbia. Someone here, counterpart Marijan Risticevic, is not Sanda Raskovic Ivić is the only one, many of those who bring it up and actually claim it was genocide, and we know it wasn't. You know, she stayed at St. George's in the village of Gnion, close to Srebrenica, the candle of Slavs lit, where Muslim friends killed the one who marked that day's cross glory. The Muslims suffered, both of them, and others. When the war starts humanitarian law, it seems to me, sometimes it stops, but it has been recorded. Hakija Meholjic was a police officer before the war, during the war he was head of the Muslim police in Srebrenica. There is a statement he made when Ali Izetbegovic called some Srebrenicas, there were five of them, including him, he said -- my dear Srebrenicas, I arranged with Bill Clinton to suffer about 5,000 people to bomb Republika Srpska. Hakija Meholjic, who still lives in Srebrenica today, was appalled by such a statement by Ali Izetbegovic, who had one opinion earlier, after that statement the other. Those were some facts. In Srebrenica today, when Chief Mladen Grujic is hardly living Serbs and Muslims, the largest number because of the situation, because of material opportunities, they try to get their neighbourly relations Wednesday, work together in companies, there are even some hanging out. That's the way it's supposed to be. We don't need to add oil to the fire, and by insisting on some, we don't calm the situation, we just flaunt it. Here, and colleague Lukic, I see, across from me, remember on January 16, 1993, how many children were killed on the Skelani Bridge? To leave it, it's facts, no one can challenge them. Our president writes and ends the book and those who were supposed to be witnesses and the fiercest propagators that the Serbian people are a genocide people, they are now changing their statements, some of you have spoken of them and our president is using them in his life's scientific work to prove that the genocide was not there. There are few dilemmas for me, too, right to tell you, because this Article 114 falls into crimes against life, and here we have, after attitude 11, suggested attitude 12, to say - anyone who publicly claims that there has been genocide in Srebrenica will be punished. But it is not just a life sentence that is foreseen here, but it is said here in Article 114: prison for at least 10 years or life sentence. So the crime could be punished for 10 years. This isn't an attack, or necessary defense of overruns, someone provoked you, attacked you, so you'd have to react. Here, no, you, but whoever wants to claim that Srebrenica was genocide, consciously accepts the fact that he wants to work for the interests of some others, most often the enemy of the Serb people, and he publicly claims that Srebrenica had genocide. He can refrain from it. As we said, we assume by adopting these sanctions more severe with the right of rapists, for some other perpetrators of criminal acts, that all those who are normal and healthy will not commit these crimes. Those who do, I believe their mind is wrong. That's how this is about our proposal for this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54415	Thank you, colleague Peric. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54416	It's a short replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54417	Well, he didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54418	Yes, it is. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remain clear to the end. All those, as Sanda Raskovic Ivić claims, all of them, I did not just say she, all of them, and I include those who now cover her with whom - Gilas, Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, all those who think that genocide happened in Srebrenica do great damage to the Serbian people. The Serbian people are not genocide. I'm sorry for all the victims, and I said that for me, a man's life is incomprehensible. It wasn't for Clinton. Clinton and Izetbegovic have agreed to drop Srebrenica. There's been a major crime, but it's not genocide. Maybe it was revenge, maybe it was a big crime, but it wasn't genocide. All those who claim, like Sanda Raskovic Ivić, all as Jeremic, all as Gilas, all as Borko Stefanovic, all as Janko Vesenovic, all in that group who claim that Srebrenica was a genocide sin. They amnesty Clinton, and Clinton thought when he agreed that he was a people, that living people were collateral damage. That's what the Serbs never thought, I don't let myself amnesty Clinton, who thinks a living man can be collateral damage. For me, a living man is a living man, no matter what religion the nations are, and simply anyone who says that the genocide happened in Srebrenica has also amnested Clinton and Izetbegovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54419	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54420	The Srebrenica project was designed in the kitchen of Western forces and in the NATO Pact, which hostilely a few years later, by aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia committed an unremembered crime against the Serbian people and anyone who has been dealing with this issue in the past 25 years, said a colleague of some of the analysts and journalists and publicists from the world, had only one expression for it - there was no genocide in Srebrenica. Many of the publications that have been written and revealed have preceded this scientific study and all that our president is doing. What is really the moment now because many other things are yet to await Serbia is that we are all aware of our patriotic obligations in this House, complex on this matter and I rejoice, just like my colleagues, that the presentation of individual MPs from the ranks of the ruling party and those in that coalition are in favour of our being aware of the responsibilities we have today in front of future generations. I don't know if you've met, counterpart Mihajlovic noted in her statement that under the patronate of the enemy high representative in BiH, a law is being drafted that will adopt the BiH parliament that will sanction anyone who denies that an alleged genocide occurred in Srebrenica. They are foreseen in what they are already saying and what they say, and it seems to me, last night and a report on Republika Srpska's TV about it, the dragon's prison sentence. Should we stay silent about it? Should we then tell all future generations that we have turned a blind eye to what is done to Serbia and the Serbian people? Of course not. We must find a way, and as Radeta's colleague said – this legal-technical possibility, if not possible at this moment, to approach the new amendment and supplement the Criminal Code to accept this SRS proposal. Individually, we all present similar amendments, but one thing is true – we ask that every one of them be punished for life by a prison that says that Srebrenica was a genocide. You know, Mrs. Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we discuss anything here, any law we must bear in mind that this Parliament should primarily protect national security and the integrity of the state, not only territorial integrity, but the integrity of our entire society and our nation. We are the worst possible defamed people in the last 25 years by Serbian enemies, and we are the most suffering people in the Balkans, not only in this last country war, or wars, but we have almost had a chance to watch documentary films and horrors since World War I. Are we to allow future generations to listen to the descendants of these traitors and these scum, who pay from the west to the people of Serbia and to the enemies of various NGOs, and probably these enemies who so pronounce and who potential and aphirm the thesis that some alleged genocide happened in Srebrenica are also MPs of the Serbian parliament. Let all those who follow us be in these congregation halls so that they can all speak unpunishedly? We can't let that happen. We've got to do everything to get that council together, after all, and the style that needs it right now, and to sanction it in the strictest way with a prison sentence, because it's the only way we're gonna show the whole world that no one can treat Serbia like some kind of mat, to live above us, to invent some kind of resolution, like these villains yesterday in so-called. to the Shiparian parliament, which killed and slaughtered Serbian children, unmitigated and committed such crimes. Everything the people gave us as an opportunity to do and to protect the state and the national interest, when they chose us, we have to do it here. That's why we raised this question. Because this law, and above all, is a situation where Serbia currently has the right opportunity to approach such a legal solution and to shed light on the face of both future generations and Republika Srpska, because the knight's struggle of war heroes from Republika Srpska needs to be a reminder and to be the light that will always shine on us, because many victims have been lost to preserve the Republic of Serbia, and we still have to keep Serbia and the Republic of Serbia together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54421	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54422	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. I asked the amendment to add a new point 12 after point 11) that says that anyone who claims that genocide occurred in Srebrenica should be held accountable. The amendment protects the state and national interest. In Srebrenica there was no genocide, you can read it on this badge carried by the MPs of the SRS. Therefore, anyone who claims otherwise should be held accountable. Each country must first be state and national interests and the state of Serbia in this regard should not be any exception. I hope that this authority will not allow people to suffer for their political stance as it once was, especially if this attitude is aimed at protecting national and national interests. I personally felt what it looked like on my skin. In 1995, at the time of the occupation of Republika Srpska, I served two months in my native Gjilan for public display of the patriotic attitude. At the time, I warmly supported the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to condemn the then government for the fall of Republika Srpska. I have to admit, it hurt me a lot more than I did by the Ship's government. So don't jump into your stomach, there was no genocide in Srebrenica, and anyone who claims otherwise has to answer for life. So I urge the representatives of the government to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54423	Thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54424	Article 17 refers to 137. The criminal code also speaks of who abuses another or treats him in a way that offends human dignity, so in a third attitude, he says if the work of the position, the one I read, does the official person in the service, will be punished for the work of three months to three years, and for the work of the 2nd prison, it was from one to eight years earlier, and you have now said it was from two to ten years old, and we propose from five to ten years old. We think that since unfortunately we are increasingly witnesses, we find out in the media, etc. that there are a lot of abuses of the official position, that these crimes are committed within the framework of the service, or work, and that this minimum penalty should be tightened to be raised to five years, and this maximum to remain ten. This is usually our principled position when it comes to the range of penalties and we intervene every time there are some violations in the laws we are discussing here. A large range of punishments cause problems and leads to corruption. Whenever you have the possibility of an official person, in this case the judge has such a stretching that he will punish someone for one year or ten years, or you said two or ten years, so he has so many opportunities for various machinations and uses, and yet we witness that this is, unfortunately, happening in our judiciary. We weren't able to talk again about these legal proposals, to elect the president of the courts, judges who first took office because we had these other bills, and then we just couldn't and there wasn't enough time to talk about it. The problem, Madam Minister, also spoke in public about him, about the problem of saying the penalty below the legal minimum, of giving minimum penalties, etc., it is difficult to resolve this law. Are you going to threaten the lowest sentence of two or three years, the issue is to the highest penalty, that is, that maximum penalty few will receive. There are serious problems in the functioning of the judiciary. One number of judges has contacts with lawyers, unauthorized contacts. You know, there are some judges, or some lawyers in Belgrade, and so on throughout Serbia, who say what they're charging you for, that and that, with lawyers, he's with that judge, but years of prison costs you so much and so much. It is our reality and we must fight against such a reality. One way is not to have a large range of punishments, not to leave a great opportunity for judges to be able, based on their free estimates, to express that lowest or highest sentence. We want to help both the ministry and the judicial branch of power this way. After all, when we say something about an area, here we are now talking about the judiciary, we will never say that all judges are corrupt, we will never say that all judges are under political influence, etc. but we are often denied judgments when we see that there really is still a serious political impact from that time on those judges who were elected in 2010 on a proposal coming from Dusan Petrovic's cabinet. Remember, that's when we talked about it. It does not mean that if Dusan Petrovic has gone now, the Democrats have gone, we need all these judges to be removed, God forbid, but we have to make such conditions that such judges who are corrupt simply come out to the surface and dissipate ourselves, free ourselves from such judges that they do not choke honest and honest people who want to do their job professionally. To that end, this amendment is, and we think it would be good to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54425	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister of justice, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54426	Thank you. Just an explanation of why the Justice Department has defined this range. We just had in mind statistics and how the courts ruled on these crimes. I'm just going to give an example for 2018 that 85% of all people have been convicted of this crime. When criminal sanctions were imposed, the prison sentence was six months in prison. Exactly, in order to avoid the possibility of such a dragon-relieving sentence and the possibility of a conditional conviction, the minimum sentence has been increased, but we have remained within the range already scheduled for punishment, i.e. a range of eight years for measurement, so it is now shifted from two to ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54427	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, proposed to add new members 18a and 18b, was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54428	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have come forward because I want to support my fellow Ministers' amendment, but at the same time I want to give support to the proposals contained in this article. That's how I want to say my opinion, which is that I'm in favour of tightening our country's criminal policy. For this reason, Article 194 refers to domestic violence, namely a crime that endangers the life, physical integrity, or mental state of a family member by applying violence. By passing the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, we have put an emphasis on the problem of domestic violence, whose consequences are very often very difficult. And then we pointed out the importance of connecting organs and institutions in the fight against violence, we pointed out how important it is for victims of domestic violence to provide safety and the possibility that, once they report violence, they will move on with their lives. The Serbian government, as you know, declared May 18th the Day of Remembrance of Women Victims of Violence, those who died in domestic violence in 2015. We now have a change of members by introducing a stricter sentence if the death of a family member has occurred and the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of five to 15 years, instead of three to 15 years, which certainly has my support. Also, if a family member is a minor, the sentence is at least 10 years in prison. It is precisely from these proposals that the government's intention to regulate concrete issues in detail, to stand in the way of crime by tightening criminal policy, to reduce the rate of enforcement of such crimes and certainly make citizens feel more secure and to have full confidence in the judicial system. That's why I support these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54429	Thank you, colleague. The word is Sonja Vlahović. Here you go, colleague Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54430	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting for amendment to Article 194. A criminal code concerning domestic violence, where punishment for crimes has been proposed. As soon as we mention domestic violence, we know immediately that there is violence against women and children. We women fight not only for gender equality but also for fighting violence against women and family. I reported primarily as a messenger, because most often in the family are victims of violence against women and children. We know that in 2016 we adopted the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. Now we're changing the Criminal Code so this way we'll sharpen criminal measures for the violent. As my colleague Jelena Zaric said, tomorrow is May 18th, and last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, declared the Day of Remembrance of Women Victims of Violence. In a way, each of us will mark that day, but I will take this opportunity to appeal to all women not to suffer violence, that each, if she gets a slap from her husband, partner or anyone, report it. Because that's one preventive measure. We all have to be in that anyone who notices violence, whether it's happening in our family or someone else, we have to report it. In this way, we will jointly, the state authorities, the media but as a whole society, fight against an absolutely unacceptable social phenomenon. I would like to commend, given that I did not appear in principle, and the bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and, of course, the proposal of the strictest criminal measure - life sentences, for the bullyes who carry out these crimes against children, women in a different state. I'm giving full support and I'll vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54431	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54432	Article 23 refers to Article 247 and these are crimes against health. A new attitude has been added here, and what my colleague Verica Radeta was talking about, we also predicted in this article that the sentence of prison would increase, the minimum sentence of prison, from two to five years, and the maximum number of years to stay, as long as it is. What my colleague pointed out leaves room for corruption, and that's between judges and lawyers. When we say this, we don't think everyone's doing it and it's possible, but then punishment doesn't achieve its purpose. Every punishment has a repressive role, and it should also play a preventive role. Perhaps even the repressive will not be fully realised if someone is punished with a minimum sentence that may not be properly prescribed, is not adequately established. There remains a big difference here and to avoid what we talked about in the rape, which we have already mentioned, that the greatest number of penalties imposed for this crime has been at a legal minimum, if that hadn't happened, to increase at least that legal minimum, which will oblige the judges. I have to tell you, it's not easy to determine, or determine those penalties. It can be a fact that a good condition can be determined, that everything is fine, but if it's a large range, then the judge or the court itself, depending on who judges, they have a dilemma to apply. We therefore believe that this would be more effective and that this preventive role of one of the prison's criminal sanctions would be more comprehensive and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54433	Thank you, colleague Peric. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nedo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54434	This amendment is the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party and we never understand why laws are being passed, why is it wasting time to discuss some law or proposal here, to pass the law and not apply it in half a year? I understood the explanation when it comes to the Criminal Code, but there are not so many amendments here, I suppose, that the services are already doing a consolidated text and that it won't be a big problem for judges and others who apply this law to start applying it, especially as the summer period is approaching, when it's mostly not being tried, when it's just doing judgments, etc. We all know how the courts work. We always think that before the bill comes into the National Assembly, and this also applies to this, that the ministry's competent services must prepare all sublegal acts, all of the preparatory actions to be completed, so that the law may, as the Constitution obliges us, enter into force on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger, and that, of course, after the entry into force and application. In that sense, it was our objection and this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54435	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the second item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of CRIME RULES You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Marijan Rističević, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Sreto Perić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of the Government and the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54436	Article 4 refers to Article 327 of the existing law where we have proposed eradicating the 2nd position, and Article 2 says that a convicted associate cannot be offered a person convicted as an organizer of an organized criminal group, or a person who is legally sentenced to prison for 40 years, or in the future of life imprisonment. This is how this attitude is formulated, a man would say—whatever he wills, this is perfectly fine and such faces and should not be allowed to be associates. But we have submitted this amendment for one particular reason, and that particular reason will be presented primarily for the public, we have also spoken in principle debate. In a fire prison, for how many years have Milorad Ulemek Legia and Zvezdan Jovanovic, indicted and convicted of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. They are there, first of all, in inhumane conditions, it's inappropriate how much time they're completely isolated from both the outside world and the rest of the prisoners, but that's the subject of this next law. But we argue that if Milorad Ulemek was legally able to make a proper deal with the prosecution, that they would bring out the whole truth about everything that happened when it came to the murder of Zoran Djindjic and the other crimes they have been accused of and for many already convicted and that they, in turn, should, of course, get the proper status and become free people, if they will help the state solve this issue that has been here for how many years. No authority has shown interest in establishing the right background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, in establishing murderers and there are dilemmas about it, there are books that are later published, witnesses etc. The judge of the time, Nata Mesarovic, who, according to our people, speaks the language correctly, a little faster than the mind, says, is a verdict. Yes, they got the verdict because the Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic, according to the political elite of the so-called one then, had to be condemned. Now, the question is, how long has it been going on, who is really behind this murder, who was in the interest of killing Zoran Djindjic? We always say – we are not saying this because it is important for us, Zoran Djindjic, but for the state of Serbia, it is important to determine under what circumstances, who, which is why and how he killed the then prime minister. And that's why we put this amendment in order for you to accept it and, based on these two men, I repeat, Milorad Ulemek Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic, to allow them to speak with the prosecution with freedom, to bring out undeniable facts that they know for certain, have data, evidence and everything, and if any of it turns out not true, it's easy to bring them back from where they came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54437	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54438	It's a small number of provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure that are being changed, we understand that. Since the Code of Criminal Procedure is amended, it is logical that the Code of Criminal Procedure should also be amended, which is followed by an urgent procedure, and we understand that, but we do not understand why in Article 6 where we have intervened in amendment and Article 6 – this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", all of which we understand so far, except for the provisions of Articles 1, 4 and 5 of this Act, which enter into force on 1 December 2019. We believe that the provision of Article 6 should read – this law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The rest of this article should be deleted because, I say once again, we do not understand from a total of six members, including one who speaks when the law enters into force, it will not apply on the date of entry into force, i.e. eight days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", three provisions will not apply. So we suggested that the rest of this text be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54439	Thank you, colleague Perich. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda, discussions in particular – Proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several types of corruption, and I am sorry that today those from the former regime party are not present, strengthened by Bosko Ljotic, to explain to them what part and in what form of corruption they were in. The most dangerous is black corruption. So that's the corruption when you put public affairs together with a private business. There's no more obvious example than Dragan Gilas. There is no more obvious example after him than Vuk Jeremic. So, if someone you have delegated in a certain way to be the president of the UN Assembly, the president of the entire world, if someone in that function financed by the Republic of Serbia, which gives him a personal income of between eight and 10,000 dollars, as I recall, paid him an apartment that cost him almost the same amount, the driver who cost him 5,000 euros, was increasingly paying him the Republic of Serbia, so that he would have the honour of chairing the UN General Assembly. He brutally abused it, and I believe that the Americans used it to testify against Patrick Hoe, the man with whom he made private businesses during the time of his chairmanship, while performing his public office, and there is no greater public office in Serbia than he did in Serbia's name to be delegated from Serbia as president of the UN assembly. At the time, he was making big businesses based on corruption with Patrick Ho and other friends, and he got big money for those jobs. In the end, he testified against his friends, I think that, apart from being amnested by the Americans, that we had no right to exercise the amnesty of such a function as the president of a political party, who was here as foreign minister, was a adviser to Tadic, a telecommunication adviser, was a defence adviser, while Mr Tadic served as president of the Republic of Serbia. His second, as our people would say, pajtas, Mr. Gilas, during his public office, the mayor's office, the NIP minister's office, and while he was head of the National Office for his companies, he earned over 500m euros. What kind of black corruption is that? The blackest possible corruption in the world that a public official has managed to earn 500 million while doing his job and that along the way, through advertising, it is controlled by the media, that media who write something bad about him and Boris Tadic can't get an ad, they can't advertise any product, because they had an absolute monopoly on advertising and on the media. In doing so, as a public official, he earned 500m euros and was involved in various corruption affairs, which I will talk about later. There is no larger form of corruption to show in the way we are trying to show from those who had Đilas, Jeremic, whom he joined, behold wonders, Bosko Obradovic, who allegedly, long ago, fought corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54442	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54443	Thank you, Chairman. Since it's a member of 1st that defines the authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I have to say otherwise I'm a major opponent of these creations, so to speak. The fourth branch of government, which is supposed to be the controller, all of these three, and basically no one controls it. We have experienced here in the DS era unhingedly, by the foolish orders of the EU, to form a systolic of these pointless agencies that are essentially serving to extract from the responsibilities of the ministries of their affairs and to have the ministries reduced to being icabans, and that you do not have any jurisdiction, and they are, to God, our notebooks and our appologians of independence, honest and honest work, and now they will control us all here like this. Since I, by the way, know what's required, and all the happiness that's been put into the law, and I have to congratulate you on resisting that pressure, it's here that people are asked to know that this agency has the authority, no matter what, the police, that they can break into the office whenever they want, to check out whoever they want and how they think. Thank God you didn't agree to that because it would be a pure crime, but what I don't like about this law, and that's the fact that here is the assumption that if you're a public official, you're a criminal. And that's a long time ago in our society, in the media, and you're an MP, and you're a minister, you're one thief, one bandit, one criminal, and you should be controlled by everyone here right now, drinking your blood. By the way, I know they've been looking for you, and they've been asking you to have a complete family without making them report the property. Now you're in an absurd situation, for example, maybe someone isn't talking to their brother or sister, and this is where you're asked to report his property. You're lucky you didn't accept that either, but even when it comes to the husband, which I would have to expose to my wife anything or any of us, to report property. What it looks like, and I'm a big opponent of giving so much information to the team, so-called. to independent bodies, not to mention that it was all done in the time of the DS, that they were setting up their officials at lower and middle levels today and how they abuse and create a serious problem for the whole society. After all, the Anti-Corruption Agency, I don't understand why? If we have a Anti-Corruption Council, what do we need two governments, or we have a clean government body, a Anti-Corruption Council, which makes them more independent, better, and no idea, so it's like the real anti-Corruption Agency? All right, if that's already defined somewhere, as long as it exists, but I have to say that some of the things that apriors are going on here, and that's that everyone who's a public official, he's about to be a thief, so they're going to be controlling him, correcting him, doing their job, I think, adequately. You have a lot of examples in Serbia, let's say where people are municipal councils. You have municipalities where most of the population lives in the country. The municipal councilman comes as a farmer from the rural community. What does he know if he's registered for example? Agricultural land and he owns that land, that he should now check out that he doesn't own it or that he doesn't have a small firm of his own, and becomes a municipal councilman, where he usually doesn't get any pay. Then people come into violation, and before that, no one has taught them well, nor has he told them that they must endure, or that they should freeze their status or transfer the leadership powers to someone else, and then be a councilman. I don't think that's right, because we have as many reports as you'd like where people had no idea what they were supposed to do before and then come to a violation and face really pointless consequences. I would pray that if something like this is being introduced, which I support, everyone has to be controlled, but then I would ask you as the Department of Justice to influence this Anti-Corruption Agency, to educate people and public officials a little bit more. I'm saying that 60, 70% of public officials have no idea what they should do before they even get into a position, because simply nobody has ever explained it to them anywhere. It would take these powers and those powers that are on the justice of God, all of them so-called. Independent bodies, got it slowly coming back to the Ministry. If the people vote for power, and in this case they vote for SNS power, people expect you to carry out something that is in the interest of the citizens. How are you supposed to carry out when you don't have half the intelligence, and it's given to those agencies that don't exist here? The right to tell you most of them, I don't know what they're for, but they are because someone from the EU is very smart, so he said, essentially, that he is decapitating the state by taking intelligence from the ministries. I'd like to start slowly restoring these powers to the ministry, and that these agencies really return to their control function, not to act like the police and act like I don't know who here and that they're our apologists of congratulations, I don't know what, and that everyone else is about thieves and rude, and they're the only ones who own to control us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54444	The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54445	I wanted to point out Article 1 because it is very important because instead of words – fight, there is a word – prevention. I think that word is the right word and the right word, not the word that was, because, when you say fight, you already assume that corruption exists, and this word -- it prevents it, so we're fighting it against corruption. At this point, I wanted to say something. I've heard, I've read, I've been informed that the law on enforcement and security is changing. If that law changes, I would ask you to pay attention to some members. So, first of all, pay attention to the principle of proportionality. The proportionality or proportionality between the debt, meaning what is owed and what is sold, is descriptively given in the existing law. It must be given numerically. The coefficient of this situation must be greater than one, but my opinion is that it can't be greater than two or three. You can't sell some property worth a million dinars because of a single dinar's debt, etc. So that's one example. So, to make sure when this law changes, because it will contribute to the prevention of corruption. The other thing you need to talk to, it's a cost-effective. The coster pumps and doesn't put an eye on the debtor. This has to be regulated with new changes. The third thing I'm apostrophysing about, to be taken into account in that amendment to the law, is that existential minimum. You spoke at Zlatibor, I read it, etc. that there is no property that can be alienated and which cannot be sold, and on the other hand I agree with you, what you said those perpetrators did a lot of things and that the debt that existed, the maltenes were halved or much smaller than it was, but there are these little things, there are these, perhaps leprosy in those lines that are inconclusive of this law on enforcement and security abuse. If I'm right and this law is expected to change, I'd ask you to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54446	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54447	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is not the subject of today's public debate of the law on enforcement and security, but I am glad you mentioned it, with a view to the public debate being under way, so all those who love to criticise, here again, have the opportunity to plead and to show us how we can improve that law. On the other hand, the biggest critics, it is this law that introduced public enforcement officers into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in 2012 and with scandalous law at the moment, because all decisions made by the debtors did not have the possibility of appeal. That is why we were forced in 2015 to pass a new law, just to ensure to executives the minimum of basic rights that there is a possibility that the court in the appeal procedure should reconsider that decision. You've listed some future provisions of the law, and I must say you're absolutely right. Certainly, perhaps what is most significant and what the citizens will be most interested in, which is a ban on the possibility of selling mobility, i.e. the property in which the debtor lives for a debt of up to 5,000 euros, which means the claim of up to 5,000 euros will no longer be possible to find such property on a public auction and the executive debtor will be evicted. Why this restriction, we've just had the opportunity over the past few years to analyze and practice and see that there's been a debt sale for that amount of immobility. Certainly and a large newspaper that is less talked about but I think it is also important, which will be found in the law, I believe that in the next month we will round up the story of changes and additions and come up with a proposal to the MPs, that is the amount of the salary, or the amount of pension that may be burdened by forced restrictions. So far, you've been able to charge someone's salary with two-thirds, we're dropping that censorship, so up to one half of the salary can be charged due to forced execution, when it comes to pensions, that's one third and for persons who receive minimum earnings up to one quarter. I think it's a significant shift to show that we're also taking care of social issues, about the poor right, so the big changes we're expected to make in the next period. I call on all those critics to participate in a public debate that is currently under way. As for the second law that is on the agenda today, which is the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which is extremely important and, above all, to all of us sitting here today, on all those who have avoided participating in the debate, and who have submitted such a large number of amendments, they have not even honored to present what they have written to the citizens. I have to say that this is a law that has been working for a long time, that for almost three years, the Ministry of Justice has tried to come up with a final proposal that has been sabotaged on different sides and that we are finally proud to meet before the MPs with a proposal that should, in some way, remove all the misunderstandings that we have had for the past ten years when it comes to the application of this law. She would disagree with counterpart Djukanovic that there is an assumption that we officials are corrupt, that we are thieves. The point is that officials have far greater obligations than ordinary citizens. With your choice or appointment, you get certain powers that ordinary citizens don't have, which is why we need to have greater obligations, right towards the citizens. I don't see any problem in the fact that any of us should report their assets while he's a functioner, the property of our spouse, because it's mostly about joint property. Whether out-of-marriage partners like to report it, probably not, but it's a legal obligation, so it's not a matter of volunteering whether someone will report the property or not. On the other hand, non-reporting also withdraws criminal responsibility. What's important is that we try to strengthen and professionalize the Anti-Corruption Agency, so that we don't come into the situation that we had before, that we have a larger and more professional director who will carry out our duties, that we don't have a director of the Agency whose integrity is being questioned, as we did in the past, that we have directors against whom the criminal proceedings were being committed precisely because of the abuses they were supposed to have in control of other officials, so the question was, how could he control the other person if he was self-sustaining, from that the abuses were committed to spending the diaries to how the buildings and the furniture in which the headquarters of the Agency were today. What's important is that we tried to professionalize, that we have an objective and transparent selection process, both directors and members of the council. I believe that this is exactly the kind of choice that will lead to no doubt in the face of the future who will perform such important functions. We as officials are obliged to comply with this law and this is not the only law that binds us, but certainly, with this law, the very important law that needs to be passed is the law on the origin of the property. In the past few months, since the Justice Department came out with a bill, we've had opportunities to listen to many criticisms. All those who have advocated the previous periods and the previous 15 years and have called in their political campaigns that it is necessary to pass this law are against it today, calling for a provision of the Tax Procedure Act that exists, where cross-examination of property is mentioned, but absolutely does not refer to what this law should apply to, so I believe that in the coming period we will be able to discuss such an important law, and that members of the opposition, who today avoid public debates, may be worthy and attend congregation debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54448	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54449	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would agree with you, of course we must respect the law. But you said something, and I don't think you're right, which is that it doesn't go away from that assumption that if you're a public official that you're also a previous thief, a criminal, or whatever. When you address the law - the law on preventing corruption, and then you look at a bunch of members, and even in the definition itself, that essentially everything applies to public officials, and otherwise the existing law is tightened, so what do people think? Not to say that in society you have such an opinion that if you are an MP now, you are immediately a bandit. See what people think of MPs. Of course, there are many mistakes and we ourselves here. Let's not lie, some have really been irresponsible in earlier times, but look at what people think about MPs -- you eat free, although those who write most about it, essentially, much more in the restaurant than any of the MPs do here. Not to mention that the level of support of public institutions is catastrophic in the people, catastrophic, or state institutions. Why? That's because that's how someone creates that atmosphere and now that all this is further sharpened, so what do people think, and a bunch of members refer to public officials? You know, corruption can also be done if a company worker in the municipality receives 50 euros to get you some paper. So that's corruption, too. It's also corruption when a doctor receives money, eventually, to let you out of order. And that's corruption, but if you say "Corruption Prevention Act," that's not what it says. So that's why I feel a little guilty about why the law is passed like this. Secondly, speaking of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mr. Risticevic spoke about Mr. Gilas's position and influence, especially on the media while he was mayor. Tell me, when did this agency ever react against Mr. Gilas? Tell me one example when she reacted, which was an eclectic example of corruption and the worst possible social impact on the media, first of all, and we've never seen them react, but let's say, any of us if you sold the car Stojadin or I don't know what for 400-500 euros, there's blood to drink from where we got those 400-500 euros. That's really not right. So that's where they have to be made some sort of proportion of how they're going to react. It can't be said in public that, simply, every public official is a thief and goes from that assumption, and unfortunately so. I'd like to do some campaign, after all, and you as a minister of justice and a society at all to influence, to simply say that whoever deals with politics and who's a public official is not in the beginning of a thief. I think it's very important that we work together if we want to restore the trust of the people in the institutions, the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54450	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djukanovic misunderstood me. It wasn't just about the commercials that Dragan Gilas was corrupt. Mr. Chairman, tell Mr. Djukanovic that the Ada Bridge was started to build without a building permit. That bridge on Ada was supposed to cost me $115 million. It cost 500 million. Dragan Gilas, who now has a party... (Alexander Martinovic: Bought. )......................................................................................................... It's another company he started. The only party Dragan Gilas certainly founded by Dveri. That's for sure. He bought all this stuff. Is it corruption when Dragan Gilas buys a parliamentary group? It's probably the blackest form of corruption. Corruption is nepotism. Like, imagine, Radulovic, who would you put on the list, Mr. Sapic? And that's corruption. Nepotism is corruption. To do a service for a service and it is corruption, but a milder form, but black corruption when a functioner uses his position for the purpose of his private business, when he joins a public function with a private business. That's what Dragan Djilas did even more than Vuk Jeremic himself, who chaired the General Assembly on behalf of Serbia and made deals with Patrick Ho, for which he was convicted. Dragan Gilas, you remember, inherited the Green Party. He teamed up with Bosic Ljotic, and this one was difficult. When he took 5,000 euros from Hilandara is that corruption? He swore on Troyer Bosko Obradovic that he would not make a party and then Gilas made him a party. I thought for a long time he broke his oath. That's why I called him "holy Christmas left-handed," but he didn't break his oath, Gilas founded the party for him. I haven't figured that out in a while. Well, Gilas is corrupt not only with commercials, with a bridge, with a woodcutter. He inherited the Green Party, bought the Green Party, and man cut 500 platans in King Alexander's Boulevard. The blackest form of corruption. There's no corruption that existed without Draagan Gilas using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54452	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Radeta's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54453	The Anti-Corruption Act is called what we are discussing today, and this changes the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. So there is no fundamental difference, but counterpart Djukanovic was well noted when mentioned and now that it is heard in public that this law is soundly called, now people will really think that this law will prevent corruption. This has nothing to do with essential corruption, and that's what we need to talk about. We mentioned it in principle, so you, Mrs. Kuburovic, mentioned some zero tolerance to corruption, etc., but it has nothing to do with this. It is true that it is high time you slowly began to throw these ballasts out of the legal system like this Anti-Corruption Agency. It's not the only agency. We will also see in this law through these further members how it behaves. They're out of the system, like some kind of para-state organization. What does that mean? You inherited something, and you will continue to do so even if you fall into ruin. That's not a good solution. We have a Anti-Corruption Council, so let's remember, there was a parallel to the Anti-Corruption Council as well as today's Anti-Corruption Agency. Has anyone alive remembered anything that this Anti-Corruption Agency has done in terms of fighting corruption? Did she make any significant disclosures, find out, investigate? And today we all mention Verica Barac, the Anti-Corruption Council and its famous 24 privatisations. Unfortunately, how many years have died, and this report has lasted for even longer, until today, all these controversial privatisations have not been cleared up and are not where the procedure was to be conducted, nor have procedures been conducted, etc. Anyone who hears that we are discussing the Anti-Corruption Act will think - here at last will now match Pitic and Labus and Dinkic and Tadic and Vlahovic and all the others we have already mentioned as corrupt politicians of that time, which were undeniable. None of them have responded and none will answer, neither of them nor any of the new ones under this law we're talking about today. This law deals and will deal with the Agency, indeed trivial matters whether a public official has been delayed for five days with or not reporting assets. Of course, we do not advocate that property should not be a public public official and we do not advocate that no deadlines should be respected and so on. But, well, it happens, someone for some reason forgets, has other obligations and so on and doesn't report the property. And here he is on the front page because the newspaper has someone there at the agency and he says, "Here's the announcement, the Veronica didn't report her property in time, Marco, Janko and so on." This creates exactly what counterpart Djukanovic said, when something like that comes out of the Anti-Corruption Agency issued a warning or initiated a misdemeanour procedure or a far-reaching criminal complaint against someone in public political life. The people automatically think this is some serious criminal, here he comes under the hit of that agency. That's not it. Nor is that the purpose of this agency. Why didn't this agency, even now, predict that it deals with, say, the most serious corruption, which is buying and selling parliamentary mandates? Shopping. So, we heard, it's already gotten to the whole party buying. If Gilas has money he'll buy a whole party, only there make a deal with him to be president instead of who he was before and everything that belonged to that party in that formal sense belongs to him. That's what Vuk Jeremic will do because he has money, so will Bosko Obradovic, since he remains obviously without his original party. So, this should, if there is already this Anti-Corruption Agency, that should be the meaning of its fight, that kind of corruption that nobody talks about, or we talk about like this, we mention in some assembly debate, but nothing is really serious about it. No, there's no mention of what this agency is going to do, say in election campaigns and not just then, how do you prevent the purchase of votes in the election? There's no such thing. What's the Agency doing? He's engaged in a contract of work in every town of ten of some young people and they get some money, he says -- go to the number of political parties' posters. Are you serious about whether the political party has done 10,000 or 12,000 posters and whether a thousand or two thousand posters higher on Serbia? There's no way he can control, say, the fact that Bosko Obradovic won the campaign from the republican budget gave some electrician, some private store or what it's called, 400 or I don't know how many thousands, which gave him, how many light bulbs did he change the electrician during the election campaign? It's not in this law. So, this law, Mrs. Kuburovic, this law would really be best to withdraw and tell the government that this agency is abolished as a concept. It doesn't mean anything, it won't contribute. What happened to what was called Zorana, what was her last name, imagine the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency for corruption replaced by the director. Is that somewhere in the white world? So, you can't do that kind of thing and we have to stop them here by law. We have a Anti-Corruption Council, we have the police, we have the prosecution, we have the courts, they're the competent state authorities that need to fight corruption. We, the people of Serbia, don't essentially know what corruption is, because in the media, there's a whole different thesis, relationship, crime, corruption, etc. It needs every citizen of Serbia to know that corruption does not exist if it is not involved by someone from the state or local government if corruption is at that level. No one, no businessman, no tycoon, none of what you call it, can do a single corrupt shop unless it's dealing with some local or state official and it has nothing to do with that classic crime we talked about through this law, the Code of Criminal Procedure. There isn't. True, you've anticipated a crime here in this law, you should have put it in this Criminal Code and you know that, when it comes to corruption, it's not even a little harmless. This should be seriously considered and corruption of broader proportions should fall under this sentence of life imprisonment. You know what everything in Serbia has done as a corrupt shop in some previous time? Corruption is the five million marks received by someone in Serbia for the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic. Who answered? Corruption is the same as some million euros that Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and those who won for Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic and Tolimira. It's a serious corruption that really deserves a life sentence. We don't do things like that. I repeat again, instead of these serious things we will see whether he is a MP or a president of the municipality, I am not defending the MPs absolutely or myself or others, whether he has reported the property or not. You say - perhaps the spouse will not be willing to report, that his property is being reported, but must, it says in the law. Let's not let it say that in the law. We didn't pick the law from the branch, like no one did, and we have to do what we're gonna do. No, I don't. We make the law, we discuss the law. Why would spouses have an obligation and have such a relationship that they would, in fact, have insight into each other’s entire assets, especially out - of - wedlock spouses? I'm sorry, I know a lot of what marriages and extramarital communities are equal to, but does anyone have any legacy, does anyone have with their family, husband or wife, any property, etc., with which this other one has nothing, and this one has to be reported here. So, don't push, this will be when we are, that's another topic, when we talk about this law that you're very much announcing about the origin of the property, it's also going to be a failure, but we'll talk about it when it's time. We can't, we can't, in fact, make people go into some illicit business, so if they transfer their property, it's no longer working on aunts, aunts, etc., now they're making serious business arrangements, contracts, so I'm handing over my property to you, it costs so much, you're gonna give it back to me under these and those conditions, when I'm no longer under the influence of this law and when I'm not a functioner, etc. For as many years as they've been trying to impose on us some kind of so-called. European values, which are actually anti-values, quasi-values, we've learned a lot of things, we've seen, so let's when we're making laws, let's be laws that came out of practice, let's be laws that are applicable to our country, to our mentality, to our system, to our people, and not there, and I don't know who to look up to. There's no need, like, here someone started the subject of public enforcement, you're not going to do anything by changing that law if you don't do the key thing, which is to execute, to get the contractor's business out of private hands and back to the courts. Until you did, you were free to paint. You can't find 200, 300, how many perpetrators there are today in Serbia. That's 200, 300 thieves. It's 200, 300 people who steal people, criminals, but in serious corruption with bank officials, with those who wait outside who sell, who buy apartments, with those who resell them. Well, that's already, people, made a mob, made clans. It's known in every city who buys, tips, sells to. It's no longer a secret. Do you want me to tell you names? When that law is on the agenda. That's why we Serbian radicals are going into action today, collecting signatures to put off this law, so that we can talk nicely from the start about solving this problem and where we'll definitely bet that everyone has to pay back their debt, but that no one can stay on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54454	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54455	Thank you. I have to say, as far as the perpetrators themselves are concerned, right now in our system, today if they were gone, we couldn't do anything, because the courts absolutely proved to be incompetent courts, given that we found, what, two million 300 and a few thousand executive judgments that haven't been carried out. Is that how it was? And why did someone lift the SDK? I don't get it. It was the most perfect system and I see that many Western countries copy it, that system, where you simply had to carry out the obligation, and only then, of course, to continue to work. Someone abolished it, not someone, but Dinkic and that group of people in 2001, when they did it, just so they could, of course, rob this system. But what I still have to say about the Anti-Corruption Agency, Mrs Kuburovic, is clear to you why it was founded, since the government had its Council on the fight against corruption, which was very targeted, clearly and unequivocally pointed to the corruption that existed then within the then government. I'm talking about what Mr. Gilas was doing, especially for the media, about what Mr. Dinkic was doing, too. Well, then, in order to cancel Mrs. Baraq's work, they created the Anti-Corruption Agency, where they hired their party staff, who today rarely abuses a lot of things, because they're somewhere now at a lower level. We even have one situation here that one MP, however, is not here now, her mother works there, and then delivers information about all people and thus abuses it somewhere in public. So let's be completely honest about why that happened. I'm not saying they're doing it today. But when we talk about corruption, that corruption is defined through three crimes in our criminal law. It's about crimes against official duty. We have a trade of influence, which is very precisely defined in criminal law. We also have the receiving and giving of bribes, which is the essence of corruption. I now don't understand why we are now passing certain special laws, which we are constantly dealing with, since it already exists in criminal law certainly as incriminating. But, okay, if this is really going to stop, I don't know what kind of corruption in public officials, then all right, let's bring something like this. But I ask you to make sure in public that more MPs, public officials are not aporeor thieves, but simply to say that this law is passed exclusively to prevent future abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54456	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54457	Thank you. Here, my colleagues encouraged me to say something about the expectations of the Anti-Corruption Agency and some other things. So far, we've talked about how everyone suspects that Dragan Gilas actually bought a political party. I would remind the public that a similar situation happened with Vuk Jeremic when he took over the party of Miroslav Aleksic. Of course, the question of what money, how much money did it cost, where did that money come from, and how did that money get earned? Of course, if there is a suspicion that public functions have been used for some personal gain or for the sake of buying political parties later, certainly the Anti-Corruption Agency should react. We know that the party is now comprised of Borko Stefanovic and Marinika Tepic and Marko Bastic and this famous Bane of Bananas, Branislav Jovanovic from Nis. Of course the Agency is obliged to check all of them. It is that there are indeed many types of corruption, that there are many elements in the behaviour of politicians who have recently been in power, who have now decided to return to the political scene only by simply leaving the parties they had and taking some calls for new parties. The question arises whether the committees or MPs were bought and how much it cost, and was that allowed to be done by law or not to be done by law? I also really agree with my colleague Djukanovic, that the Anti-Corruption Agency has a lot of work to do in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54458	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague. Natasha Sp. JOVANOVIĆ: This law, Mrs Kuburović, is completely pointless for the reason that we have just discussed the Criminal Code and indicated once and for all that this Criminal Code must be codified and that every criminal act, and from the scope of corruption, must be clearly stated and specified in one chapter. Any authority that comes in a position to change something, the first thing it promises is to fight corruption. We do not doubt your good intentions and the activities you have taken so far, but it is a drop in the sea, for the reasons that you have much greater responsibility than some other government, because you have been the most corrupt, who have been the biggest thieves of this country, who, like locusts, have left a wasteland in Serbia, in enterprises, in public enterprises, in local self-government, changed from power, and you have come in a position to rule. This is why your responsibility is greater, especially because the late Verica Barac was already mentioned in 2012, so before the shift and the yellow thief's family, she delivered 70 reports to the government of Mirko Cvetkovic on unprecedented corruption in Serbia. That's what she got a response to only five reports. Completely lonely in all this struggle, with the support of then in parliament, truly selfless, MPs of the SRS. We are even at special sessions of the Committee on Security and Home Affairs invited her to come and ask her and the members of the council to tell us if they have any threats and pressures. Of course there were, and all because of the fact that they had absolutely nothing to fear at the time, that they were threatening people, that they were blackmailing, that they were putting, which is the worst of all, in the most important places, in the courts and in the prosecution, the very people who would protect their crime. Later, an amendment to the law led to the formation of special departments in prosecutors throughout Serbia. But, Mrs. Kuburovic, you as justice minister cannot, of course, have an influence on the judicial and prosecutorial authorities. You can react to a memo in non-application. It's Dusan Petrovic, the 10, 20% radio. Do you know that in all these prosecutions, there are now these changes, the elections of the younger staff, the yellow prosecutors and judges who work for the interests of the very ones who have robbed the country, and who are from the clan and Gilas, and Jeremic, Velje Ilic, and all those thieves who have not hesitated just to grab their own huge benefit and influence? A moment ago, he told his colleague Djukanovic that trade in influence is actually the highest degree of corruption, and that is correct, but how can it be branded and prevented? I'll give you an example, since recently in the Russian Federation he started working in many Russian regions, it seems to me in 42, a register of corrupt persons. Why doesn't something like that apply in Serbia? It's a country that's been facing for years and decades the greatest evil that can shake up a society and bite everyone, and that's corruption. Vladimir Putin signed an order last year to declare such a law establishing such a register. Instead, we could have done something similar, so nice in the register all corrupt to find Jeremic, and Djilas, and Vlahovic, and Dinkic, and who will list all their names, there are so many. According to local self-government, it's amazing, in public enterprises. The Russians resorted to calling on all citizens of the Russian Federation, not only not to do business anymore and to have any contact, because it's public, you can look on the Internet, who are those who are corrupt and they have no rights for the next five years, because they're in that register, until they prove that they are innocent in the court proceedings, which they never, that justice and the right of the court, would not prove themselves. It's the only way you can influence citizens' awareness that they know first that they're not afraid of anyone, and secondly that they're not normal, neither in Kragujevac nor in Belgrade nor in Novi Sad, in Pirote, Vranje, there's a price for corruption. You know, how those who are honest feel, and they're a vast majority in both health care and universities and all over Serbia, when they hear that the cost of the birth service is 500 euros, and you know that it exists, for the employment of between five and seven thousand euros, for the college degree exam. You know what that honest professor and student or doctor and technician who's doing the job is gonna say right? Well, we're not all corrupt, so neither are all public officials. This law is a dead letter on paper. They're going to record everything the functionor has from the property. That's a nice thing to say to a colleague. What have they done spectacularly since they existed? The only thing they were persecuting was their dual functions, and later it came to pass that these people, who were marked, were no longer presidents, or mayors, the MPs under such pressure, but to replace their roles. There is nothing else we have seen here, because it is not the right way to fight corruption, but to make the necessary changes in all the authorities that need to be fought. What else did Verica Baraq indicate when she filed those 70 reports? The biggest corruption is at the top of the state government, i.e. in the government and in all these bodies. Do you think that by changing power, and you have come in that second cycle of your rule as minister of justice, you have succeeded in rooting out everything in your ministry, or in all the accompanying structures of your ministry, as well as in the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance? Of course you're not, because it's impossible, when I'm having the biggest trade influence right now, and people are afraid of it, because he says, you know, what I'm going to do is up to my child, this is up to my wife, I have to ask, let me see. They're afraid of people, believe me. Trade and such corruption are also in the workplace. In this process, when much came out of the picture of what they were doing, it was seen that they hired these yellow bandits, and that they kept people from getting fired by receiving money. Where you will increase the level of corruption when in the National Assembly, here, although not now, you have an MP, this one, Miroslav Aleksic, who is most corrupt. How? He sold his party to Vuk Jeremic. Does anyone think that Wolf Jeremic could have collected those signatures and registered? What does he say? He was a good Alexic, so he gave us his place in the register, so we'll call ourselves that. Of course, he had the money, he gave him something, because he had so much to do with these corrupt affairs in the UN and traded his influence, right, so he wasn't having any problem. Gilas made 500 million by trade in his influence. No, we were all stupid, here's how many of us are in the O.R., so he figured he was selling fog, so he made 500 million on fraud. So all these things can't be solved by this law. Therefore, approach the creation, first of all, of the law that we have initiated and the abolition of these public perpetrators who are tearing the skin out of citizens and codifying these all corrupt acts in the new... I'm sure you'll have to change it again or a new one to make a criminal code to really convince the citizens. You appear, as Minister of Justice, you have the right to do so, here we are as MPs – do not be afraid, report. You know, citizens don't know. He made a joke the other day, and in fact he didn't, because of these Hague lunatics who are still after Peter Jojic and Verica Radet, so he's a colleague of Jojic... The squirrel can't, because she's on a red Interpol warrant, so she can't even go to The Hague. To make a little joke, but indeed fellow Jojic said – when someone gave the money, Zika sued Mike, not to testify against him, so he is, of course, in corruption, so the judge is paid off, so the lawyers end it. People we have to educate, tell them – don't do it, don't be afraid of anyone, simply report, call, keep in touch with them so you can take off your responsibility completely, not someone to drag you into corrupt actions. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54460	Thank you. The very law that we are discussing today, or the bill that we are discussing, is the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. You are very much talking about the fight against corruption, the repressive mechanism for which they are responsible, above all, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prescribes the detection and processing of those who deal with corrupt crimes. I'm glad you mentioned the special corruption departments and they were just formed thanks to the Law on the jurisdiction of the state authorities in countering organised crime and corruption that began to apply on 1 March of last year. Thanks to him, four special departments have been formed in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje and Nis and the results are extremely positive in a year. What's important is that in the past year, we have a convicted person, persons who are sentenced to prison, and they're not so-called. small fish. You have both judges and directors of public enterprises, you have procedures against prosecutors, and you have what is mentioned here several times, procedures against doctors, against police officers, against inspectors. The important thing is that will has been shown and all mechanisms are that courts and prosecutors can act. As justice minister, I absolutely cannot influence either the court or the prosecution whether any proceedings will be initiated and how the decision will be made. I'm sorry all the controversial privatisations haven't been solved yet, although it's something we've been working on for years. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think we should work on the adoption, first of all, of normative acts that can enable judges and prosecutors to act, to provide all means, first of all, infrastructure and human, to support the discovery of corrupt crimes. Are we doing enough? I believe so. Can you do better? Surely, even if we are talking about the procedure of each of us, I can speak of what was done within the Ministry of Justice, based on internal audits carried out by the internal auditor of the Ministry of Justice, and I still have the authority to do so under the Law on the Ministry of Justice, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on Registrar of Prosecutors. It has been found that there have been numerous abuses in certain prosecutions, that budgets have been spent illegally, i.e. employees have allocated budgets that have been paid on their private accounts, and that several million dinars have thus been found to have been spent unintentional. You had almost, almost ten days ago, arrests at the Nish General Court, where it was found that funds were missing from the deposit. The first announcement was that it was an amount of 30,000 dinars. However, our internal auditor has data that it is a much larger amount for now. We're waiting for this procedure to be completed and we're finally going to figure out exactly what amount it's about. Much has been done primarily thanks to the law that was passed, thanks to the brand-new organisation of courts and prosecutors and we have done a lot of things to provide infrastructure for both courts and prosecutors so that they can act this way. You mentioned it as an example of such crimes – trade in influence. I have to say that there is a judicial ruling against the Supreme Court for the trade of influences, that he has been sentenced to prison for which he is also relieved of office and that is not the only example. You've got a few judges against who were prosecuted last year for taking bribes. That is exactly what shows that judges and prosecutors themselves may be willing to calculate themselves with those in their ranks who are not worthy to perform this function. The law on preventing corruption, which we are discussing, should be a preventive character. It's supposed to refer to functioners, but it's not just about functioners. For the most part, these are obligations that officials have when entering office, during the duration of the function, but it certainly refers to the integrity plan to be adopted by each state body, each body of the legal authority to determine which actions can be corrupt and to take appropriate legal and technical measures to remove any corruption procedure. I understand your remark that we should be stronger and perhaps more visible in the fight against corruption. Sometimes it may not even be public enough to represent how much it was done, but in the previous year and a half and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, I must point out, there are also good results of work. I and I call on them to be more open to the media, to be more open to the citizens because it can't always be the government that will represent the results of the work of courts and prosecutors, but it's certainly done quite well in the previous period and I believe that these results will be more visible in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54461	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54462	Thank you, Chairman. We are still in the field of the bill on the prevention of corruption and standards relating to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The debate is very constructive and interesting. To make this amendment even more interesting, according to which I reported, Miroslav Aleksic, who sold his party Vuk Jeremic, now wants the proposal to be set aside from the Republika Srpska budget to finance the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency through the amendment. What were we able to find out from the media? Will our question then be justified? Is the malfeasances we read about true and justifiable? Is it really about the amounts of money we listen to or read about? In doing so, those politicians who were recently in power, who had until recently been in public office, did not deny at any time whether they had actually bought parties, whether they had actually used these public functions for personal gain. Of course, this bill, along with the application of other laws, will have to answer such questions. They will have to answer the question – are, when, in what way public functions used for the personal wealth of officials? I really hope that we will no longer have cases in our country that someone, after a public office mandate like Dragan Gilas, acquires property that is measured by hundreds of millions of euros, because it is not really the goal of performing a public function. It is always a question of whether all this public investment in Belgrade had to end in such a way as to ask the question of the next day – whether it was an affair or not, and that after so many years, we are now saying that these affairs were synonym for thieving. We will remember that Belgrade was left with debts of over a billion euros. We have a bus plus when there's no respect for the Public Procurement Act. We have a supply of software that has never been used, costing citizens of Belgrade nearly 10m euros. We have a reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard. We have a bridge on Ada. We have a privatisation of Luke Belgrade. We have a lot of things that have been disputed, which someone, I hope, will have to investigate in the near future because they are then very expected questions – what happened to the money, whose accounts ended this money and where the money ended with the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry the MPs across the street aren't present. They're in tents now and they're discussing laws there, and maybe they could say here how they did it all and give us answers to some questions. Unfortunately, these are all examples from our close past. I hope we pass this law. I will certainly give him support, because this law will right now work to shed light on these issues, but also to prevent future behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54463	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54464	Thank you, Chairman. Otherwise, all the things I've been saying so far are like something I want to start a debate about, especially about the work of that so-called. The fourth branch of the government that has given itself the right to do what it does and that all of us who are part of either legislative or executive, and at the end of the day and the judicial authorities aren't worth half the pipe tobacco, and all of those in these agencies are the best thing this system has and what this state had, and now they're going to tell us their controls how it works, how the system works properly. I have to ask you something, Mrs. Kuburovic. All right, they're controlling something like us now, we're reporting property, it's all very nice, and here we're listening to a series of examples from Mr. Rističević, through a distinguished colleague, Žarić, etc. about some criminal acts of DS officials at the time of, of course, their government and I'm asking another public question. The Anti-Corruption Agency, which one of them was being prosecuted? Who'd she ever control? Did she ever say anything to Dragan Gilas about the influence on the media she's got? The Anti-Corruption Council is. It's the government's body. Did they ever ask Bozidar Djelic how it's possible that you're working for the Credit Agrikol Bank, and you're a bit of an economy minister? Then the economic situation data in our country, you're giving a little credit to Agrikol Bank. Did they ever ask that as a question? No, they're not. I have to ask you something else. Who controls them? Who controls the work of this Anti-Corruption Agency? Who controls the work of any agency formed here? Once again, I don't know why we're all being faked here, but we should say -- all these agencies are mainly formed on the EU's request, under their pressure for a very clear reason, because through these agencies they basically kept a bunch of our officials, conditionally speaking, government officials, judges, they held them in their hands, and they could manipulate them and do whatever they wanted. Let's not lie to each other anymore. The fourth branch of government has proved to be one of the most ordinary money-suckers of the state budget and money. They didn't contribute anything. On the contrary, we've never had corruption more developed, and they've never been. Now I ask a key question – who controls them? Are they doing the right thing? Did they report the property? Did they abuse anything somewhere? A moment ago, Mrs. Radeta said a paradoxical situation that the director of the agency had been arrested precisely for corruption. That's amazing. All right, we're going to vote this out, although, I say, for these crimes that are being predicted here, there's all this defined already in criminal law and only the M.E.P.D. or the police, or the D.A.'s office, would first of all act on it. Here, I'm asking a public question - who controls that so-called. The fourth branch of government? And otherwise it was formed and made for what? So that when they fall from power, when they no longer are, since the people of 2012 replaced them, they essentially leave their party staff in those institutions and thus continue to abuse and to hold the state in some way in their hands. It's a bunch of these non-governmental officials out there hired and they're essentially harassing these agencies. Let's not fake it once. What is this political correctness? It's an ordinary carnage that was designed to rot the state and essentially extracts jurisdiction from your ministries. That was the whole point of the story. And so, in fact, the western of these various agents that came here through this NGO sector, to essentially control the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54465	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54466	I can agree with you that there may not be enough control over the work of the agencies right now, but that's why the law changes and the election process itself, both directors and members of the council, is within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The agency has now chosen its own director, i.e. the agency's board of directors, and is asking the question - how can the board decide and exercise its jurisdiction impartially, when it is up to it to decide by appeal the decisions made by the director, which is exactly how the board has chosen the director. Now we're changing that procedure. The directors and members of the council will be elected by the National Assembly. The National Assembly will be the one who will be able to resolve the director, who will be able to resolve the members of the council and I think we are thus increasing the responsibility of those who are to be at the Corruption Prevention Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54467	Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54468	Let's understand each other right away. As for the current director, I've had a chance to meet a man, I think it's about a decent man, Mr. Sikimic. I think it's really about one decent man, but I'm talking globally. Why? Because we are now coming into an absurd situation that a bunch of some of these directors who are now coming may essentially not even in those agencies themselves are asking anything, because underneath them are officials who are formerly employed and who are essentially immeasurable. And they're the ones who conduct the work of many of these institutions. Now let me ask you a specific question. Let's just say, you have various agencies where it's stipulated in the law, specifically, we had a situation for the Protector of Citizens. Who could control Mr. Jankovic's work? Nobody. He could have submitted those reports to the Assembly, whether or not it was discussed, it was completely pointless. But you could never change him. In fact, the law always predicted that he could, like, be replaced, or someone from those agencies, if he was found to have been unwittingly doing the job. It's such a broad formulation. Come on, find out someone was unconscious doing his job. Then how do you think you're changing it? And if you tried to replace it, by chance, if the Assembly chose it, it would immediately happen next -- here, the attack of the authorities on independent institutions, etc., etc. I think that there must be a change in legal regulations completely, because it's impossible for these people, once they're behind the chair, to be replaced alive. And then they control everyone here, and you can't control them. And I think there's got to be some balance here somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54469	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54470	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a few small corrections. Mr. Aleksic didn't just sell the party to Jeremic. It was a resale, and before it was sold to Boris Tadic. Just so we know that the man has sold the party twice and is not at all the subject of this corruption agency. I call this agency "Corruption Agency." If it wasn't for that corruption agency, I believe there wouldn't be this much corruption. And I say it responsibly. So, if someone is, maybe it's funny at first sight, if one of the members of the Zemun clan bought a building where the agency, without public procurement, I ask you what courage it took for the former regime's party to even call it the Anti-Corruption Agency, if the people who ran that agency went to the Green Wreath and bought the building from members of the Zemun Clan, without public procurement? Here, I'm saying it. That's what I'm behind. If what I'm saying isn't true, that the building was bought without public procurement, the Anti-Corruption Agency bought a building in which, today and today, without public procurement, probably by the government's decision, Mirka sedog and pale first tuna, so it's probably how it happened, I suppose, that this government, with no integrity, this government that had everything and everything but some authority, where he ordered whoever wanted it. So they ordered jobs more easily than drinks from a nearby pizza place. Jeremic says -- I need a fee of 25,000 euros per month or 30,000 euros, just to add a card to me and Mirko Cvetkovic, sitting down, fades, says -- no problem, Vuk Jeremic has a 25 thousand-euro allowance per month. When we first start from the Anti-Corruption Agency, I claim that it is, and in general, those regulatory bodies, I agree with Mr Djukanovic, it was the reserve composition of the Drpocrat party. I have nothing against the Democratic Party, but against what it has become, which is why I don't call it the Democratic Party, because it's still just being called in the register, for me it's the Drpocrat party, they stole everything that wasn't nailed to the country, and what was nailed to the country they sold or bought without public procurement. I also agree, in part, that Mr. Gilas was a fog dealer, but tinyly chopped, milled through a large grate. It is a man who today can't stand "Belgrade on Water", but Belgrade is in the fog and how he tolerated it. So, there's nothing he didn't cash, from commercials, from the media, etc. It's the first mayor who owned the press, one medium, that's the man who controlled all the media, so he stood up for the freedom of the media by replacing all the editors of the daily papers, by breaking into the headquarters of the Curra with long pipes, by taking over BK TV, just to cover their tracks. This article says that the Anti-Corruption Agency should also have its own organisations outside Belgrade. Imagine that it happened during the former regime's party, during the Droccrat party, imagine that it happened that they had an organization in India? Well, they'd have work to do. Imagine in India. I didn't say India. I said India. They don't know what India is, they know what India is. So imagine that they came to Jesic and only recorded every day how much he bought, for him and his family. A woman also has her share. With women, it's a little bit of a problem. If he wants to get rid of his husband, now he just doesn't report the property, the husband goes to jail, the lover is welcome. It can happen very easily. So we have to be very careful here, especially because violence against women is not allowed. So you can't force her to give you all her accounts and all her secrets, and that for us, the men's messengers, to be very destructive, a team now at 160 who's going to corrupt any MPs? We can only steal papers and two files, I probably already stole a pen, because I put it in my pocket. Therefore, it is difficult, but in their relations with them when they ruled with 127, 128, corruption is among the MPs and however, and therefore these provisions of the law should be kept for this situation so that God forbid they return and rule again at 127. There should be some legal provision that will make it impossible for new, repeated corruption in parliament, which in their time is what it is. I therefore recommend that citizens do not vote in favour of those white umbrellas and tents, so that the best way to prevent corruption is by always winning convincingly. So, there is no corruption with Vukic, but there are 160 and some MPs, so let's see who's going to hold back and ask for something for a vote in parliament or who's going to try to push through some law or legal rule, like during the yellow ones, which is what individuals and their individual MPs were doing. Now let's take India, not India, for example. What about Kenu? You're gonna talk about Kenny. So imagine now they're recording, so an apartment of 110 squares on two levels. One hundred and ten, the president of the municipality. Goran Jesic is not here. So that's the man who's corrupt now. We're corrupting him? We pay him, and he's been gone for a year and a half. So that's kind of corruption, too. So, you get on the list, which is what the DS accused him of taking 60,000 euros at the last campaign. What was the name of the one, Bislimi, that's not what I'm saying, said Bislimi, the man took 60,000 euros in the election campaign. Isn't that some kind of corruption? And when I claimed it about him, they said, "No, where would Jesic take it, he would not take it." Well, he wouldn't have taken so little then when he was president of the municipality. In their time, 60,000 euros were stolen by local community presidents. So, nice first apartment of 110 square meters on two levels, and then that's in India a little bit. Then we take another apartment across the street from the Cultural Center, just enough to find it, and then for the mother, it's stupid to live in India, come on one apartment in Novi Sad, like in an elite settlement, and then the brother of the poor Vlad Jesic, you know the journalists, it's a very profitable profession, I know, almost all the journalists aren't living security, and this tenant in Novi Sad. Now I think there are several levels, etc., several hundred squares. Let's not make his brother suffer. Then something was supposed to be there, some building was built without a building permit and he got very sick and said – a 250 square-square pentahaus with a 50 square-square terrace. The apartment where they lived as a family, before it came to public office, had 45 square meters. Just imagine when there are over 50 meters of terrace in one penthouse, and everything else is 250 square meters. Of course, then he wanted to go to some Olympic games, so in the village, as it was, in the municipality of Rum, Mr. Martinovic, you know anyway, I think in Putinci there's a house for an unemployed uncle with a closed pool, he's unemployed, but he has a house with a closed pool, it's not corruption. So, decided to train a man. I'm still sorry we didn't send him to the Olympics, given the conditions he had. He had better than Cavic. I believe he would have brought there, like Mark Spitz or this, what was his name, this drug addict, the other one who's slow on his heart. I think he would bring more medals to our country than any swimmer in history. Then, look at the wonders, the house on Tatar Hill. She saw a frog soaring, so she picked up her leg. He saw some businessmen there, people of influence, that they had houses like that, so he bought a house on Tatar Hill and moved his brother in. So, no brother, no family to develop, and that organization "Bebac", can't do it by developing in Novi Sad, we have to do it a little bit on Tatar Hill, the one with landscape architecture. Some entrepreneur there, stuck to him, had to sell, business difficulties, left, right, but there are profitable public officials, Jesic brothers. A house on Tatar Hill, 400, 500 square meters, all with the salary of the president of the municipality of 800 euros. So imagine if the organization was this Agency for Corruption then, this one now that's going to be called to our anti-corruption agency, imagine that she then recorded all these properties. Now, in the end, he had little. And then he found Bislimi to twist, as ours says. And, well buy 130 square meters in the center, Đorđa Jovanovic or Jovan Djordjevic, I mix those names and last names in the centre of Novi Sad. It's just that, a little bit on the wife, just so that it's known, that there's also a wife to report, report everything with those companies "Milk Republic", "Fruit Republic", then it's a warrant "The Uzik Republic". Well, Mr. Jesic has more republics than former SFRY, and he has more real estate than a whole village in Serbia. But to be such a conqueror, he has solved what these, Suleiman, etc., has solved and taken over the centre of Vienna. He took a man and took a large area in downtown Vienna, a 60-foot-square penthaus. Now imagine a court caller, that these regulatory bodies are a little bit, a little bit, and I'm being sued for something. That's you, Mr. Djukanovic, these are your backup DS compositions, yellow. So we don't lie to each other. I'm their pet. The applications are just coming in. Sometimes for the same act, apparently, several times, even though I have everything I have, I have in the New Carlovs. Except for the car, everything you find outside the village of Novi Karlovci, and there I'm not among the top 10 on the property, so I give everything to whoever finds it. Imagine, Goran Jesic writes like this – just so you know, we know all your addresses. I answer - Mr. Jesic, it's easy to find my address. So, it's easy to find my address, it's the same, it hasn't changed in 50 years, and how do we find your address from these vast properties? He's on his way to a subpoena. He can't find him. We in India must have subpoenas with passports, so a man can come out and find him in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54471	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54472	Thank you, Chairman. I reported on the amendment to refer to this inspiring presentation by my colleague Rističević, who reminded us all well how it was while in power was DS. I'm not going to say it again, but I want to repeat what's already been said here many times, and it concerns exactly the difference between the authorities and the DS and SNS. So we are already all witnesses that the SNS is really strong at fighting corruption and crime, and it is seen every day, we show it in action. We see that there are no protected and that there is zero tolerance to crime. The final examples are the municipality of Grock, president of the municipality of Grock, the management of the municipality of Požeg. I'm only saying this for the sake of the citizens to remind them of the difference between the authorities and the DS and the authorities and the SNS. Once again, as far as this law is concerned, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act has been disputed in some members, or in some norms. Some of the norms were unclear, they were just about cumulation of functions, conflict of interest, reporting the property of officials. I really hope that by this law, when it comes into force, all this will be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54473	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54474	Look, Mrs. Kuburovic, what I was just talking about. Now you'd really ask us to be, to listen. Look what Mr. Risticevic has brought out now. (Marian Risticevic: It's all true. Truth is, I know it's true, there's no dilemma. But this same Anti-Corruption Agency never seems to have brought any action against this, Jesic, ever. I don't want to talk about Gilas. We don't have a house here, I don't have a house on Tatar Hill, I don't have a grandfather, I don't have a place where I was born, so 40 years I live in the same apartment, and most of my colleagues, I don't have real estate, the only thing I own is a car. I don't brag about it. I can say it's a little embarrassing. But we drink blood if we're two, three days late with a report of property. All right, I agree, so be it, and look here at this robbery situation, this crime. They've never run anything against these people. I wonder, for example, did Mr. Jesic, here when we heard all this, report that property? Does the Agency have any record of the application of that property? Otherwise, when I talk about reporting property, and there's little, I have to admit, I don't agree with the way it's being asked of us. You know, a man could have inherited something, had a lot of property, someone was rich, so he inherited it. Now you expose it all to the public, everyone reads it on some site, you directly endanger your safety. I don't mind signing up to that agency, but it doesn't have to be all exposed to the public. If you haven't reported anything or I don't know, the Agency can file a case against you on its own. This isn't normal, so the game of the case can make you become a wealthy heir. Now you put it on the table and somebody's gonna think, wait, wait, now I'm gonna fine-arm this, threaten his family, etc., which is not normal. Now, I'm really asking, have these people ever reported all this? Did the Agency ever react if they didn't report it, as it is very zealously reacting to us. I don't mind, let them react, but you know, it's not right and it's not right. Then the question arises, so wait, if they didn't report it, and no one was chasing them, so was anyone in that agency corrupt? Did someone control them, did they do their job well? You see, it has to change somewhere, no wonder people here are rightly angry, because we have such double standards. He would really ask to think about it, that when someone is reporting property, that it's of course in the Agency itself, and that everything doesn't have to be really available on the Internet, because you know, everyone's gonna think, there's all kinds of crazy people who use the Internet, they come in tomorrow, they rob your apartment, they break your car, whatever, because from some whim, so it came to him, they want to do you harm on purpose. It's not right to expose people who are MPs to that kind of danger, or not just MPs, ministers, whatever. Here, I believe that if you don't report the property to you, no matter what you're a minister of justice and what someone might say that you may have an impact on them, and I know you don't, they probably drink your blood right away – in two days you have to report everything, three, they want to chase you, etc. I'm just curious, say, if they were chasing, for example. Former Justice Minister, I'm talking about Mrs. Malovic, if she was reporting everything, that's exactly what I'm curious about. I hope so, but it would be nice if you would check it out, and if someone reacted if they hadn't reported it. That's what I'd like to make it a little bit sharper and not have as many double standards as we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54475	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic. Professor Marko Atlagic has a word for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54476	Mr. Vice-President, since counterpart Djukanovic and counterpart Risticevic already mentioned Goran Jesic, let me just say one sentence about what he said about Bojan Pajtic on 17 September 2014, so you will see what corruption in the administration means, how the former regime carried out corruption. He said this way, quote – Bojan Pajtic employed aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws, scurvys and godmothers at the Executive Council of Vojvodina and increased from 670 employees to 2,700, finished quote, etc. Here, you see, this is another example of how they fought corruption in the administration. You will now hear the curiosity of a former party leader of the former regime, otherwise the former defence minister, which is for Dragan Sutanovac, or as my colleague Risticevic and I called him "the grabper". You remember that we have often stated here that Dragan Sutanovac or "a captor" during the acquisition of a mobile radio relay system via "Yugochemia" damaged the budget by around 200m euros in exchange for exchange rates. Please, this is the State Auditor's report, not me, but the State Auditor. You know what happened today, and to tell the one who resold tanks and solvents, destroyed the defence, please, the latest news for Dragan Sutanovac today in the press, the Security and Democracy Forum, are these agencies, Mr Djukanovic, you are absolutely right, so for 15 years of work, he decides to award a special recognition to Dragan Sutanovac for what is said in the statement, I quote: "an exceptional contribution to the democratisation of the security sector and the reform of the defence system", finished the quote. And he took all the defenses and the army to the fire department. So here's where we came from, here's how they fit. And this for 270 million, the 2010 State Auditor's report, we've mentioned here five times, has anyone ever initiated this from state institutions? No, I don't. Gentlemen, we can contain corruption very quickly. How? Let the inspections do their job, in health care, in education, in management. We've solved it. (Marian Risticevic: I in the firing machine.) And in the firing machine, of course, Mr. Risticevic. So here's how the former regime's party fought corruption. It is true that we have made remarkable progress, first in our own ranks, which we have proved in certain municipalities and then in others. Does he have it? There is. How long will it take? We're going to need a lot of time, because we kicked out of the education and education system, not really us, but the party of the former regime for 20 years. It is very difficult to act now because the teacher teaches the child – don't steal, don't be corrupt. He comes home, a parent who was born in the '90s says - steal from a neighbor, steal from a country, steal from a private. That's the problem. So they destroyed our system, they destroyed our system institutions, and it takes a lot of time to build system institutions. We're on the right track, the citizens really notice it, but we're gonna need a lot of effort, a lot of effort, a lot of sweat to get even better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54477	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54478	Ladies and gentlemen, because of these tanks, due to a successful beating, in various ways, Dragan Sutanovac, called "the kidnapper", sold a tank for $5,000. Imagine that kind of corruption when you sell the tank for $5,000, and then Radoslav Milojičić Kena, called "heineken", for one night drinks, what was it, 300 and some beers, which cost more than $5,000. Now imagine that kind of corruption that they drink one tank for one night. That is why Dragan Sutanovac, who has made it possible to melt tanks, is likely to receive a first-degree medal of military power. So, the tanks were made of American steel, that was American steel at the time. So from the Russian-Serbian tanks, you get American steel produced in Serbia. And this US Steel was also the subject of unprecedented corruption, because its privatisation or ownership relations were done during Sablje, when many rights were suspended. I believe that one of the reasons he was killed by the former prime minister is exactly that. You laughed at what I said to Jesic. Unfortunately, I would only like it to be my wit, but it was a kind of irony to the terrible truth that happened in India. So I started an industrial zone in India in 2001 and 2002. It is this industrial zone for whose location and equipment of the industrial zone and "Folksvagen" says it is the best. So, on the location, Serbia has the best location for "Folksvagen". Whether he will come or not, he has interest, of course, and from "Micubishi", but whether he will come or not, that's another question. Imagine that kind of corruption between the old road and the new road, between the railway and the highway someone remembered in 2001 and 2002 to build an industrial zone. While I was building it, firstly, since there was no money in the country, I brought in a man who raised a cigarette factory Fast and then many did me a favor, Petrovic from Telecom, Naumova from Elektroprivreda, should be named Branko Jocic, etc., many have helped me, except Goran Jesic and the Indian authorities. In the end, when they saw that the industrial zone would be realised, they took over less than the General Agricultural Co-operation “Srem” by falsely debt-depositing land and they reselled it, although it had never been owned by them. I filed several reports, which via Verica Barac, directly to Mr Tadic, there was no major reaction, and there was no reaction later than the Corruption Agency, as I called it. Most of the time, they resold 200 hectares of agricultural land from an industrial zone that wasn't theirs and thus earned about 30m euros somewhere, by my estimate. It was funny when I listed all the properties they acquired in India thanks to these manipulative, speculative, criminal affairs. The result at the end of all this is what a corrupt government does, that a corrupt government at all costs wants to retain these privileges, escapes from every kind of reform, escapes from any kind of change. I felt that on October 5th at a session that I, as president of So Indjia, called me, on that very date, wanting to share it, so, as someone who was in DOS, I wanted to be with them and finish on October 5th, I was placed in a water management building, without quorum, without a secretary, without a vice president, so in a wild session chaired by, behold, Nikola Divjak. So, the savage in the wild session, in the water management building, was replaced by the President of the Assembly, i.e. My smallness, to cover up the unprecedented corruption that happened around the industrial zone that I was building along with some people, wanting to first and foremost that part of Srema, and the gentlemen of Ruma know because they suffered during that period, as soon as economically developed. Since we received from Krajina, like, Bania, Korduna 50% of the new population in India, we needed to get all residents to work and bread as soon as possible. The people of Indjia came to work and bread, but earlier officials of the "drapocratic party", as I called it, filled their pockets and therefore won the money all the way to Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54479	Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic, I presume by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54480	I would certainly refer to what Mr. Risticevic said, but I must say, this is one of the good examples. You know, Mrs. Kuburovic, here we can open up about everything to talk about for the simple reason, none of us ever stole anything in our lives, nor thought of doing it. As far as I'm concerned, they can insult me, they can say whatever they want, but if someone told me I was a thief and that, I'd take his eye out. I'm serious. So it's something that's the biggest insult possible and I never let anyone tell me that. My colleagues are honest people never occurred to them to abuse anything. I went to lawyers, and it's hard, and I wanted to go to the private sector, and I can't even think about it, even though the law allows me, I can't even think about it, like the other colleagues who went to law school, that we're doing something with any state firm, so that, of course, they don't stick us right on the front page and I don't know what they've done to us. Here you had an example of Mr. Gilas, who as mayor with his agency all state-owned companies had to go through his agency to advertise. He owned the agency while he was mayor and never acted by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Never. Not to talk about what kind of system they created, so the Anti-Corruption Alliance rejected them, because he first criticised them, made them a little bit through the Verica Barac campaign, made a crazy and hysterical woman, and then formed the Anti-Corruption Agency and made a whole system through judicial reform where they put their party staffs to be judges. Let us all remember that the judges chose on principle by proposing people from the DS municipal boards. We read in the Assembly as the fax arrived from the DS municipal board, I think it was down from southern Serbia, says he's a very nice man, Despotovac I apologize. So, a very nice, very good man, he's correct, he's ours, he's ours, he's ours. And that's how they choose him as a judge. It's something that's out of its mind. I have to say, it's very important, I know that here it insists, now and on changing the Constitution in terms of the judiciary. I have to tell you honestly, I will not vote alive for the situation for judges to choose for themselves. So it doesn't occur to me to do that, and it's terrible for me that they even avoid being elected by the congregation even on their first term. I'm even a supporter, someone has to control that judiciary, not only to choose them, but to be able as a Parliament and to resolve them. Because if someone makes a verdict on behalf of the people, the only connection with the people is the Assembly, because citizens give us that mandate to represent them. How is it possible that someone does not want to be chosen by the congregation, to be chosen by that same nation, and to make judgments in the name of the people? It's out of my mind. I don't want to vote for it, and I hope something like that doesn't accidentally try to take away our ability to choose judges. It's just illegal. It creates a space for corruption and creates a space to introduce a sudocrat where someone would use it again and in a party way. So, there's a lot wrong with it. It is good that this law is passed in this sense that it finally shows people somehow, to the whole public that a functioner cannot be corrupt because this law absolutely does not allow it. So he can't move anything, because the law is so and extremely rigid, but I have to say how they did those so-called. independent institutions, as they worked on the party dictatorship of the DS and how some judges today who may have remained from that period, were chosen in the way that Mrs Malovic predicted it. Today is the day they insist most on the so-called. an independent judiciary where they would essentially choose themselves. I don't want to accept it, I'll just never vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54481	Thank you, colleague Djukanovic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54482	Mr Marinkovic, if you will allow me, but before we remove one, I would like to say a serious delusion or a wrong claim by Mrs Kuburovic to ask my fellow MPs one question. When our colleague Marijan Rističević presented the property map of Goran Jesic, is there anyone who has not been affected by his head? Half of it, that's a lot, and how our citizens live, and if he ever asked him anything like that, they barely make ends meet. Madam Minister, you said, the greatest critics of the Law on Public Executors, this has nothing to do with this subject, but one of the colleagues opened it up, so you said, the greatest critic of public enforcement is those who introduced public executioners. You made a mistake. The main critics of public enforcement are the SRS. In 2011, when the law on enforcement and security was passed, we criticized it, we criticise today, they are nowhere near what we are, they took advantage of it when they needed it and now they have no more chance to melt with them, as our citizens would say, they are now fighting against it. This Anti-Corruption Agency Act was adopted in 2008. What's the score? Does he have any at all? There isn't. What is the result of former director Zorana Markovic being punished herself for doing corrupt acts. They actually worked more in the interest of corruption. They fought to bring corruption into our public system, or society at all. Our intervention refers here to the selection of the Director of the Agency. You said in the bill, a public competition for the selection of directors of the Agency was conducted by the Judicial Academy. We are opposed to this way of carrying out this activity in the election of the Director of the Agency, we offer an incomparably better solution. And what did we suggest instead? We have proposed that activities in the selection of directors of the Agency be carried out by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Why is it important for this congregation body, the congregation committee, to do such work? Well, because all the people's representatives are represented in that committee, all the political parties have their representatives on that committee. It is the best way to control the process, as well as the candidate for director elected by the National Assembly. If we're gonna get some results, then that's gotta be it. At one point I suspected that my colleague Djukanovic had said if any of us had stolen anything here. I have looked and seen that there are no three MPs who stole the mandate of the SRS in 2008, and therefore he is right. What's our situation now? This should all be treated by this law and all this Agency if it truly wants to fight corruption, it should prevent it. In this three-year term of office for local parliaments in Serbia, around 540 council members have changed the party that has entered the congregations to date. Is there more corruption? What guarantee are they to the citizens who chose them to stand up for justice, for justice, for some principle? There is very serious corruption here, and if we don't fight it, and that's why my colleague Verica passed the law, and she's already explained it several times here, which means to whom the parliamentary mandate belongs, and hence the parliamentary mandate. Here's a few things we brought out here. It would be good if you were willing to accept them for sure then what you're talking about would be more effective and easier to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54483	Thank you, colleague Peric. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I can't believe Gordana Comic boycotts the National Assembly. I cannot believe that National Assembly sessions are boycotted by Dragoljub Micunovic. This Gilas is a miracle. He has finally seduced the order of all parties. And here's this one that he founded, this party that I've been sinning for a long time, this way I apologize to Bosca Obradovic for claiming to break the law against Hilandar. That for 5,000 euros, he promised Hilandar priests that he would not establish a party, that it would remain a family organisation, that he had sworn on the icon of the Three-pointer. That rule, I thought, was violated by Bosko Obradovic and that he founded the Dvori party, subsequently found that the party Dveri was founded by Dragan Djilas and his godfather. This way, I apologize to Bosca Ljotić Obradovic for accusing him of having founded the Dvori party and now I have unequivocally determined that Dragan Djilas and Mladjan Djordjevic, as the godfather, have done. So, Bosko LJotić, you're forgiven. You share your sin with Dragan Gilas. We definitely know that Dvori, the yellow Dvori and I apologize to their voters for not finding out and seeing in time and warning that it was only a spare party of Gilas, and that there was Bosko LJotic Obradović, left-handed, that he was in fact only a tenant like this stray. So Dragan Gilas bought the Democratic Party as well. This corruption agency of theirs, and now the future anti-corruption agency should deal with the issue as well. How Dragan Gilas controls the Democratic Party through debt slavery. So, the Democratic Party is intermittent, as the young people say in favour of Dragan Gilas, because he allegedly took over some of their debt and bossed the Democratic Party. So it's another one of his firms. He also bought a driver, Marinika Tepic, so let's see this kind of corruption, we should also deal with the issue. Imagine someone who changes five parties in three years. I don't want to count the coalitions. Imagine those high flying abilities, when you go from LDP to LSDV, it's a short flight. Anyway, it was -- I'm flying from like that to something like that, I kind of understood that. After that, she flew into that movement, that sick guard from the citizens. What was that guy's name? Jankovic, Sasa Jankovic flew over to him. From him, she probably flew, under the influence of the vine, into a new party at Zoran Zivkovic's. After that, I don't know what the marigans were, I can't ask her why, I can't ask because I can't ask how, I can ask her for how much. She turned to Dragan Gilas. And Dragan Gilas, I heard, is now not using it as the head of the parliamentary club for why he bought it, but as a personal driver, at least according to Dragan Gilas' statements. Wherever he committed some traffic violation, he says - he drove me to Marinika. All right, let's trust him to drive the marines. Soon if he continues to do so, he will lose his driver's license, given the number of misdemeanors committed by his vehicle, the jeep is made by Dragan Gilas, who is very arrogant. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, during the party of the former regime, we had this kind of corruption that ate the country. We wanted a market economy and democracy, we got crime and monopoly. They're monopolies, they're monopolies. That's what I said a long time ago, so Djindjic quoted me as saying. So, during 1997, in 1998, that's what Verica remembers, I said every state has a crime, that criminals have a state with us if it continues. Unfortunately, DOS continued. And when you entered the Democratic Party party, during Gilas when you entered that party, Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, and other small and large pests, they were like yellow ticks. So when he leans up like a yellow tick, until he sucks all the money out of the body he grabs and the resistor he grabs, they don't give up. So when it entered their party, you couldn't tell if you entered a political party or a crime or organized crime, to be more specific. So there are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without a state. Then, during the yellow, the state was the corruption that ate the country. We only had a vision of the state, and so I think, lucky or not, Al Capone was alive today, so Gilas probably wouldn't have taken him to his party, he wouldn't have put up with the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54485	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at a time when the SNS came to power in 2012, the constant theme was the fight against corruption. Indeed, many former ministers, officials and prominent leaders of the Democratic Party regime, as well as officials of local self-government and public enterprises, were arrested at the first moment. It seemed like something was going on, something was changing in that field. A day after Miroslav Miskovic was arrested, the whole of Belgrade took place in posters containing Miroslav Miskovic, Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Djilas. It said something, about -- "We're just getting started" or -- who's next in line? ", etc., something like that. Since then, no serious investigation, no action, no intervention by the executives in the fight against corruption has been made. It all comes down to one body we've seen can be just a corrupt Anti-Corruption Agency. It can't be reporting property the only way to fight corruption. So, in this way, not only will there be nothing to know about corruption in Serbia. First, it's very easy to manipulate, it doesn't reveal anything, and it doesn't show a report of property, and then it's a prescribed prison sentence for a felony not reporting property, a prison sentence from six months to five years. Well, prescribe a prison sentence in 20 years or 30 years for corruption, for taking and giving bribes, so we'll see how the officials behave. Start from one company to another, from one municipality to another. There are exceptions, of course, in municipalities and businesses, but it's pretty pale and rare. What is the latest, and Mrs Kuburovic said that this is the result of DS authorities, it is true, therefore, that public executioners who need to unfulfilled obligations that have accumulated should collect, i.e. The executions were introduced in 2011, you're right, but you've been in power for seven years. These perpetrators have ruined Serbian citizens due to some debts that are several hundred or several thousand euros. People were kidnapped by apartments of 50, 40, or more thousands of euros and helpless persons, and cheated, and various cases were there, and then it was discovered that and what happens on these auctions when these apartments are sold and they've been kidnapped. Always the same group of people and natural persons, as well as legal persons, participate in these auctions. It's very closed. No one knows when those bids are. No one knows how to report it. We had a case that the executor, who moved a family out of the apartment, was later sold to a member of the family of execs from Kragujevac. But that's not suspicious. How did that happen?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54487	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54488	Excuse me, I'm finishing up, Mr. Marinkovic. That from now on the cost of eviction will be borne by an evicted person or that they will be able to arrest people who oppose eviction, it's scandalous. Take over the performance of your duties again. Let the courts take over. Modernize, reform, create an efficient system, ensure that the state fulfils those obligations, that private people do not get rich beyond that and stop hiding more and the fact that public perpetrators in Serbia have become a branch of the mafia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54489	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54490	Ladies and gentlemen, this corrupt former government, I forgot Borko Stefanovic, the one who waved his shirt. When I'm ahead of the presidential election, in early January, somewhere beyond Christmas, after a mission I've performed like this -- I'm saying that they, God forbid they come violently to power, what they're threatening by shooting and hanging, there won't be a dilemma with me, they'll hang me 10 times, and they'll be waiting for the shooting like, for example, when Delez opened up. They'll be waiting for everyone to shoot me once. Here, Mr. Martinovic, something's frowning. It's only painful for the first time, so it's better for the state to shoot me for the state's loyalty than for the corruption of honor and for the betrayal of the state to honor me. I'd rather be shot at for the state's loyalty and hundreds of times. So they keep promising us. I guess every corrupt government in their time was looking to find out how and how to preserve it, by corruption. So, 127 MPs, let's go to some corruption. Corruption to the one from Sandzak, what's his name. He's a little bit of a rebel, so they're a little bit of money to him, etc. It was going to be 127. And I forget Borko Stefanovic. I got beat up in early January, and then in Dnevnik they announced that we were a journalist, Sarapa, who was then a journalist in Studio B, how can I say, a little fond of Gilas, a little bit, a little bit. So, he favors Gilas. They beat him and me up after the show because I was talking about Boris Tadic's rackets. I said in that show that Boris Tadic and his team are top tennis players -- they don't have a ball, but they often beat up a racket. After that show, the chosen society, which had just taken off its uniforms, beat me and Sarap. Afterwards, they announced that we, under the influence of alcohol, attacked a group of young men and we never knew, nor knew what that group of young men were, was it a group of DS, whether it was a group associated with Tadic's security, irrelevant. A presidential candidate in a democratic society beat up a few days before the elections, ahead of the first election round. So here I was, of course, talking about Kosovo and the possible settlements that Boris Tadic made, and we finally saw it from the WikiLeaks Depeš. But when someone beat a hard one, and I disagreed with the violence, nor am I to punish anyone with violent methods, then Borko Stefanovic, the great Gilas leftist, but also prone - the left hand of the right pocket, I will explain how, then there was a real alarm and, allegedly, they are now in the protests. They started protesting it, and they came to white tents over there in Pioneer Park. Borko Stefanovic was not a fighter against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic as he represents himself. He wasn't a Wolf, either. It's an oil family. It is a family that also stole Slobodan Milosevic. So, Father Vuk Jeremic was the director of Jugopetrol, and it is publicly said that his post with Boris Tadic emerged from the rapid corruption after the October 5th change, where Father Vuk Jeremic, Misko Jeremic, quickly offered certain tensions to Mr Tadic and so Vuk Jeremic became adviser to everything. As Boris Tadic moved from the Ministry of Telecommunications to the defence, then to the post of president, he also followed the trail as a snail when that wet, slimy trail followed, so also Vuk Jeremic followed Boris Tadic. To which function this one, he joins, and so they probably came by the corruption that is oil nature. But what does this have to do with Borko Stefanovic, the great fighter and the alleged resistance? Well, that Sasa Jankovic looked at the changes from the JUL window, but they wanted to say they were great fighters against Milosevic, which I won't say anything about now, because all I had to say was I told him when he was alive, and they only when he became a dead man when he couldn't defend himself anymore...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54491	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54492	Hold on. Borko Stefanovic is the son of Vasili Stefanovic, who was one of the directors of the NIS, and therefore Borko Stefanovic was a negotiator with the Russians, and therefore the NIS, in my opinion, went at a low price. We will certainly not touch the contract, but also Uncle Borko Stefanovic worked, Mirko Stefanovic, a senior diplomat in Slobodan Milosevic's regime, and therefore they were no fighters against Milosevic. They were fighters who had their full capacity corruptly acquired only when Milosevic was downed, when they personally and personally reached both oil and power and foreign affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54493	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54494	Yes, an interesting amendment, i.e. a member and within this whole explanation story, is the salary of the director and deputy director of this agency. You predicted the Director had a salary at the head of the Constitutional Court's basic salary. Now imagine the responsibility of the Constitutional Court judge, the appointment of the Constitutional Court judge, the work of the Constitutional Court judge and this director of the Agency. It just can't be compared. But it's not just that. We have suggested that it be deleted, and you will leave it - the director and deputy director can increase the salary to 20% based on the decision of a larger agency. This really isn't normal. Based on what? How will they judge that bigger? On what basis is he going to raise his salary by 20%? What's he gonna do, that agency director more than a month to get 20% more than a Constitutional Court judge? This is a real harbinger of a serious system and don't do it. Your colleague in power told you that you should break up with these agencies and these really silly things that you inherited, but somehow you keep them down and keep them safe. I remember when that agency was formed and it was, I think in 2010, it was, and Arsic was at that meeting, so I wanted to remind him, the meeting at the Agency was holding, they called representatives of all political parties, and now we think there we'll hear something, the Agency did, now we'll see. And there's the one with the wiper, the one with the vest, the one who likes to take pictures of the parks when he makes statements. How can you not know, Zoran Stoiljkovic? Then he was a professor at college, an assistant, then he lied in his biography, wrote a professor. There's a man. And now he's an assistant. So he was on the board of directors, as was then called, and the Anti-Corruption Agency. In the meantime, he became some kind of union, known for boasting himself that he was active in civil society organisations. And how could someone like that, with such a biography, be on the board of directors of the Agency when he was? That's what I was wondering when I was going to that meeting, but I said let's see. There we were really so uncomfortable surprised that no one there knew anything about what was expected of that agency. I remember a question I asked at the time, which Zoran Stoiljkovic told me was a great question, but unfortunately he does not know the answer. Believe me, here, Arsic was. They talked about how, when opened, the Law on Political Parties was at stake, so when that election account was opened, it was intended, and now that account should be closed within 30 days of the election and some debts remain, in the sense that someone does not send a transport invoice in time, for some shows, some electrician, Bosko Obradovic, for example, etc. And now we're asking, here, we got that invoice, we shut down the bill according to the law. We from a regular account must not finance election activities. This is election activity. How do we solve this problem? How? He says – um, he says to think about it, but literally this is what he says – Mrs. Radeta, it's a good question for you, but I really don't have an answer. Well, that's probably why he needs to raise 20% of the salary on the one that was already that big. At that time, the first director of the Agency was Zorana Markovic, who, imagine, was relieved because she stole a living room somewhere around 2,100, I don't know how many euros, a daily abroad. First question - what's she gonna do abroad if she's not on vacation? What's she doing abroad? What kind of experience does she exchange with, with whom? It's really amazing. Well, then the state assigns an apartment to the Agency to solve a housing issue there, and she's not asking anyone to take the apartment herself. And that's someone who was at the head of that agency. Why is all this happening? Because it is hypocritical to write in this law, and in any similar law, that the Director of the Agency cannot be a member of a party, and let someone convince me that there is some party who will put someone who is not a member of it at the head of this or any other body. That's what to say. He can't be a public official and party official at the same time, but to be a member of the party. What, but he's going to put membership in the freezer, what's the popular thing to say now? It's hypocritical and it leads to these absurd situations. The current Director of the Agency is a member of the SNS. As such, he was a member of the RIK working body or something. And let us, we don't mind, you've got most in the last election and you need to fill all those places. And because of the story that it's a non-partisan personality, then the team deals, and then through all politicians, some transparency, CREC, BIRN, I don't know what they're called. So don't be hypocritical, but say it -- it's a member of the SNS, but he's fulfilled the condition, and that's why he's here. So, you also accepted that, I think that from the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica was introduced, from the secretary of state and beyond, so that they, when they calculated -- yeah, after four years, if we were not the government, let our people remain in important positions, and then they gave the State Secretary a five-year term, and then this so-called. independent bodies, which don't mean anything. The only one of those independent bodies that makes any sense is the DRI, an institution that does something concrete. What's this guy gonna do? Nothing. What's this trustee gonna do to protect equality? The lady puts on makeup, dresses nice and comes and invites the press to tell her what's moral, what's cultural, what's brought up, what's not brought up. And who has appointed her, by which criteria is what is good for her, must be for me or for someone else? So, total nonsense, nothing people do, they get, they get serious wages, instead of dealing with these affairs is real state, competent state authorities, and then we know who's responsible for what and who's supposed to do what. This is just the empty straw beating. I'm sorry, but there's no other way to call this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54495	Thank you. The word has the minister of justice, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54496	Thank you. A little clarification on the journal and what the director, then director of the Agency works abroad. Both now and then, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency is a representative of the Republic of Serbia in the Council of Europe's body dealing with the fight against corruption, and just those diaries have been given by the Council of Europe for participation in the GREKO sessions, while the national budgets have also been charged. That was why he started the procedure. And exactly GRECO is the body that oversees and makes recommendations in which direction certain normative activities should be changed, so that, in accordance with the recommendations of GRECO, this Anti-Corruption Agency Act, or the Anti-Corruption Act, is also amended. When you talk about the way you choose both board directors and board members, if you look at the current solution, how board members are elected, there is absolutely no procedure, no criteria based on which someone becomes a member. You have several institutions that propose their candidates. Some of these institutions, i.e. associations, have not proposed candidates for years, so this committee is not complete today after several years. That is why I think it is a good solution that we have proposed, that it is the National Assembly that will choose both directors and members of the future council and choose them after a very transparent and public competition, which will consist of testing and the expertise of candidates and verifying their integrity, so that the best candidates, or candidates who receive the highest number of points, will be forwarded to the National Assembly, who will be able to discuss them here. I think that's how we increase both the professionalization and responsibility of future directors and council members to be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54497	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54498	We got along, and there's nothing really different than what I'm saying and what you said. But, just, our approach, so you've now explained how, you said that in another way, you didn't explain yourself, you're standing here in a proposal to elect directors, members, etc., but we're just telling you that you can't succumb to that someone, I don't know what term to use, these certain pressures of all these, I don't know what they're called anymore. Who doesn't do everything to the state, who doesn't do everything to the competent authorities, who doesn't give everything the right to comment on the work of this authority, the work of that authority, and all with the aim of essentially destroying the rule of law, that is what is done. That's why we have to stand up to each other that way. Let them write whatever they want. What does this Birn say, Creek, what do I know? Let them write whatever they want. Do you know what they're doing? Do you know how they question, check this agency's work? Vice President Marinkovic had it, I had it. The neighbor from the building, I come, he says – the neighbor, just to tell you, came, he told me the name. Who's that? To ask if we in the neighborhood know what you have on your property. Who's that? He says he's from Creek. Imagine you and he checking in that way, then they wrote about the property of the vice president, etc. I don't have any problem with that, and they couldn't find out what to do in the neighborhood, but I'm saying that this is the kind of law we tell them -- here you go, work, check, because this is transparent, this needs to be known, etc. Well, for the record, there's no such thing. Let's be clear, there's a register out there, let someone who takes care of it check it out. It's not very polite for anyone to have an insight into a current account, a jury account of a public official. It's not safe. It can't be all about choice. Don't hide in the election and this director and the others. Don't hide to please someone like that behind the fact that he's a non-partisan character. You must have the nerve to say, we are the government, the people have chosen, with so many percent of this congregation majority, we are responsible for everything and for this and because we are responsible Sikimic is a member of the SNS. What's the problem? No, you're saying he's a non-party figure and then they say he was in RIK. He was in the working body, and that way it's bad written about this man, and maybe he doesn't deserve to be miswritten. I'm not talking about him right now. He's just an example. Just two more sentences to tell you. What else is the work of this agency going on? Among other things, they write a newspaper about it, says a MP or a director, it doesn't matter, mostly the MPs are on target like this, because they say everyone in the public that MPs have two, three thousand, I don't know what they pay, I guess they think half of the hall or I don't know, and they count as one, and then they say -- the MP didn't report in time, he sold that 15-year-old car, bought a new 12-year-old, got rich. It's a subject based on the Agency's report. It's the theme of these kind of media that someone's funding to write bad about everything that has to do with the state, the state authorities and state institutions. One more thing, fight corruption, do you know when it will be in our terms possible? When the Criminal Code changes, when the same is not the case with the one who pays the bribe and the one who receives the bribe. The one who gives bribes is often blackmailed, forced, it's a matter of the health of a family member, I don't know what pain makes him. He can't get a job for five years, and he heard there that if you give your neighbor 2,000 marks, he'll hire him, 2,000 euros, he'll give them away. It can't be the same way that the one that's been made to suffer, like the one who took the bribe. This is not the bribe of that guy who's serious corruption, and when someone says -- here's half a million euros for me to get some object worth three million. It's something else, but I'm talking about this, let's say, small things that should be the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-17-0.u54499	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta, for the discussion. We're finishing work for today. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours. I thank the Minister and all the MPs. I'll see you Monday.
