ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62176	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have a quorum and the possibility of continuing the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladan Zagradjan, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Ljiljana Malusic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on open investment funds with a public offering. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the Minister of Finance, Mr Sinisha Mali, and his associates from the ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Dubravko Bojic, Ružica Nikolic, Nikola Savic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Despotović, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanović and Filip Stojanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62177	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to this article, and we could have freely applied to all the other members. There are so many gaps in this bill, but we really just wanted to specify this point of point 1 and Article 1. The bill's proposal and actually let's do it again and draw attention to what is the essence of these investment funds both open and alternative. You have announced it in the media and talked about it as an economic boom that, and financially, will happen in Serbia and you are constantly on the same subject - we are the best and for the first time in the history of humanity, we are the leaders in this one. Of course, none of that is unfortunately true. We would be happy that Serbia is in something, in a positive sense, the best or among the best, but we are still far from it. These laws are bad, above all, because of the fact that Natasa Jovanovic told you that these laws were written and she specifically listed names, some in the USD, which are certainly not someone who wants well for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. How are these funds going to work, and what are we going to get out of it? We will see it in practice, but we must certainly refresh the memory of all of us, the public above all, to see what was going on around some of the other funds that made us the first in the world again, the first of the world, the first in the history of leaders in the Balkans, in Europe, on the globe, I don't know where and that was, to remind you, in 2013 on July 31st, Vukic then said that Thursday after that, talks with the "Mubadal" about the chip factory begin on July 31st. According to that chip factory, we were supposed to be the leader in Europe, but it seems that we are the only leaders left in chipping in Europe. That's what the problem is, and that's exactly what the fact of who the authors of these bill are. We recall how much was written, saying that "Mubadala" would open up, that fund of theirs, the aviodel factory, that we would open up a chip factory, that it would be employed all alive and unlively, that everyone would have to go to IT experts. It was simply that July 2013 that it was impossible to live on. You remember, and to remind the public, in the name of love for "Mubadali" is even the regime at the time, and you are the same now, you named the school "Sveti Sava" in Novi Pazar "Halifea bin Zaed Al Nahjaha". It is something that was then shocked continues to shock the public in Serbia. We are here, among other things, and to remind the public in Serbia of some of the things that you are trying to push under the carpet, promoting something new, something like we now don't know what the promises were from both "Tenis" and "Mercedes" and from "Folksvagen" and from what they were supposed to come to Priboj. So we remember "Folksvagen" and "Mercedes", remember the sign "Mercedes" that's stuck to the bus – and where is it now? When word broke that Zemun would come to Icarbus to come to Folksvagen, I simply got scared, hook, so what would happen to Mercedes, he would have to be expelled when the Mercedes never came. So, you do your job and make sure Serbia is as good as you can, but don't make a name out of every one of your jobs. Don't present every single job as the best thing in the world. No, unfortunately. It's not like that, unfortunately. This "Mubadala" that was supposed to build in Serbia the largest chip factory in the Balkans, in the world, in Europe, I don't know where, which was supposed to be working airplanes, to get a job I don't know how many people, well, that fund of theirs broke in 2016. So, three years after those promises you've been making us here, that fund broke, they said at the time a huge minus was at stake, allegedly because of, I don't know, the collection of raw materials etc. We're just telling you examples that shouldn't be examples of you and we're telling you that all the laws need to be likened to the state of Serbia. We'll talk about it through future amendments. We repeat, not everything you do, which is a regular job, and the ministry and the government and the congregation majority, don't represent as epochal, none of this is epochal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62178	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belacic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62179	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, open investment funds are institutions of collective investment where funds are collected, and can be invested in assets, i.e. investment policies, to create and make profits. The Investment Funds Act was adopted in 2006 where conditions were created for the establishment and functioning of these funds, as a new form of capital market financing in the Republic of Serbia. And it's a good thing it is, but only on paper. While countries in the environment have 90 and more such funds, Serbia unfortunately has a dozen, so I will list some, such as Delta Plus, Fima Proactive, Focus Premium, Cepter Capital and others. Many small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia are credited with insufficient crafts for the raw materials they need to have their business effect and give financial benefit. The market is underdeveloped, insufficiently present paper of value that would attract potential investors. Investments in the investment fund will allow access to the capital market where experienced managers would manage those funds and would give more benefits than savings themselves. This way of investing funds still in Serbia in 2007, unfortunately, has not been fully used, as citizens prefer to opt for savings rather than for the risk of roles in a still unknown fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62180	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. Now the word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62181	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, today we are talking about open investment funds, as one way to further strengthen the Serbian economy. We need to create new business opportunities for domestic and foreign investors, as well as new activities to develop the capital market. The World Bank, we could hear that in the debate in principle, the World Bank estimated that our GDP could grow up to 7% a year and that a significant part of the growth was conditioned by the development of the capital market. That is why the Ministry also worked on the Capital Market Development Strategy. Before the world, a regulatory framework should be provided to facilitate further development of the private and public sector in Serbia. Point 6 of Article 1 reads: "and other issues of importance for the area of open-end investment funds with a public offering" and certainly covers a wider range of issues compared to the proposed amendment relating to borrowing. Speaking of borrowing, the proposal refers to the issue of Article 57, so it may have been necessary to submit an amendment to that article, if the amendment's proposer wanted to intervene in this regard. I just have to say I agree with the government's opinion that this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62182	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now according to the amendment, the word Natasha St. Jovanovic, and Zarko Bogatinovic to prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62183	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I support a colleague who said this amendment should not be adopted, for the reason that this amendment is, as the Government has pointed out, the borrowing of open investment funds with a public offering completely unnecessary. In Article 1(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: – the organisation and management of open-end investment funds with a public offering also says in point 6 "and other issues of importance", so I think it is fully explained and fully rounded. The law on open investment funds with a public offering is in fact related to improving Serbia's market. We couldn't talk about it before, because it wasn't such a climate, it wasn't that kind of budget situation at all. The most important changes here are, in fact, the purchase of investment units that will be able to make payments in dinars and foreign exchanges, and the investment unit will be a portable financial instrument. We are now extending the financial instruments and the basic objective of this law as regards the participation and development of investment funds in the Serbian market is to provide conditions that can attract more market participants, but also better access to companies to funding sources and that is the point. This all involves even more intense trading, which is actually our goal. Here, we have an example now of President Erdogan, who came with 200 businessmen. We want to attract investment in every way. One way is precisely this Investment Funds Act with a public offering. Also, the domestic market will be more attractive for foreign investment and will be able to access both this and we will also talk about alternative sources of funding. Not to be too long, this amendment is completely excessive and I support the government's view that this amendment should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62184	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62185	Of course, someone can say that this amendment is not necessary, we said that it is very important, that it is key precisely because of the organisation, establishment and operation of open investment funds. We have another way of looking at it and will be seen through later amendments, we want the Ministry and the Minister to be directly and in charge and responsible for this job. But there are interesting objections to this amendment, obviously mixed reading papers. This is where the colleagues speak of point 6 and the amendment is at point 1. Let's agree to really talk, and if we say why some amendment isn't good, we need to know exactly which amendment is not good and say the argument why. We haven't heard any arguments, as we haven't heard in the government's opinion. A colleague also read to us here, she says -- she agrees with the government, as the government said, I don't know exactly what the government was talking about, because what the government of the Republic of Serbia said has nothing to do with what the colleague said, the exact opposite of what you ministers and the government said about why you don't accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62186	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62187	I would like to answer the following, so this was about the amendment of my colleague Despotović Zoran where I can read what the government has said about his amendment, where he says the borrowing of open investment funds with a public offering. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the solution given in Article 1 paragraph 6 paragraph 1 has been discussed by the draft law more comprehensively than the solution given in the amendment tabled on this article because it has a broader meaning, I said, and it covers all issues of importance for the area of open investment funds with a public offering which is regulated by the draft law. Therefore, this is not about any interference but about the precise reading of the Government as it replied, and it is my view that I absolutely support it, that amendments should not be made as clean as this previous colleague – deleted and so on, but should be given meaningful amendments that have some meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62188	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The faithful Radeta is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62189	I'm sorry that a colleague doesn't understand, and this isn't the first time that it's suggested that a member be deleted, all members of a law, part, or position or point of a member, and that's the relationship to the bill. If the bill says something that is excessive, of course it is proposed to be deleted, but you from the congregation majority are trying to say that now that someone is watching the Assembly, they just suggest that something be deleted and that we do not know what we are doing. So, the amendment can change something, something can be added, something can be deleted. It's important to explain why. How else, dear colleague, to react to a member who writes something that absolutely has nothing to do with the brain, which shouldn't exist in some member in some law? How to react rather than write, we suggest that it be deleted? And because you don't understand what the amendment looks like, in fact, what the essence of the amendment is, it's not our problem anymore. The essence of the amendment is something and the existence of an amendment in general as part of this Rules of Procedure and this work of ours is very important. The amendments should be those that will in some way link the opposition to the government's representatives in the sense that the government thinks about an amendment at least once in its life, I am talking specifically about the Serbian Radical Party's MP group as the largest opposition political party in parliament. The problem is that you think you're a force, that you can work on the system, and it doesn't occur to me that you listen to any amendments, no serious explanation that we offer you, and that just means that you have no idea what parliamentary democracy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62190	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62191	Dear colleagues, respecting your years and your internship here in parliament, it is certain that you know a lot about the work of Parliament and so on, but you can't say that everyone knows anything, only you know everything. You appear here in the role of someone who will defend and co-worker Aleksandra Belačić, because it is her amendment "expects" and fellow Despotović Zorana and all those who have submitted these amendments. Your amendment was number one, these are also on Article one. Everything that has been said is absolutely true and has the right to say "be deleted". However, this applies to the law and to Article 1(1). Organisation and management of open investment funds with a public offering. It's impossible to erase. Well, that's the essence of what this law is about. The other thing is to delete something that's completely unnecessary. You gave amendments where they were deleted and the decimal or the dot, so they joined the sentences, and we saw it. So I can say, well, so much for that knowledge that we move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62192	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62193	Young girl, are you a full-time girl? I guess so, you couldn't have been an MP if you hadn't. So it's obvious you're not getting along in the role of MP, you're not getting along with the Rules of Procedure, I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group. We've still got a little bit of a minute to think about the MP's group, we've spent well, we're gone, but it can be used. So I'm not defending anyone here, I'm here on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. The fact that you don't know how it works I'm really sorry, but it shows that you don't know the Rules of Procedure and I repeat again that you don't know what parliament is or what democracy is in parliament. Do I know something or don't I? Well, I'm afraid you can't appreciate it, because what you showed in the National Assembly and what I showed is kind of incomparable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62194	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on line, Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62195	Apparently no one's giving up here. I thank my colleague for being an adult, thank you, because I'm middle-aged, but thank you for thinking that I look nice. So thank you very much, that's the only thing that impresses me on this last one. Well, to be honest, I look nice and the SNS has these nice messages. As for knowledge, I have a pretty big internship, and it's 29 years now that I've spent a lot of my job in banking as well. I know very well how to read these laws, especially economic things, and I know what I'm talking about. So there's no need for me now about who knows more, who knows less. A colleague is a lawyer and, of course, vice president of the Assembly. I respect both its function and its knowledge, but it is purely about different attitudes. Therefore, I will not offend anyone, but I think my argument and how adequate and unfortunately, well, we agree with the Government that this amendment should be adopted. So much, I wouldn't go on anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62196	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. First on the line, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62197	My colleague obviously doesn't follow what she's saying, so she went first with insults, but I didn't want to react that way, but I indirectly let her know that she should think a little bit before she says anything. Of course, I don't even know that she looks nice, I don't even know what she looks like, I don't know what she looks like, I don't know how she looks, I don't know how she looks, I don't see her that way, she's confused, obviously, and it's especially unusual in the National Assembly to talk about what someone looks like. I guess this is where we have to wonder how someone sounds and what someone says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62198	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62199	Unlike you, Mr. Marinkovic, I'm not going to interrupt this debate, this education of Mrs. Radete, because it would really be pointless, but that's why I'm having an objection to your handling this session, you've injured Articles 27, 107 and 162. You can't sit there like a mummy, Mr. Marinkovic. You know, and now you're looking and you're loving something, you know the great Rules of Procedure, you're counting on a serious politician and a pretender to become the president of this party of yours and someone we probably count on and what we support. Then it is normal for you from the presidency when it comes to the obvious not knowing that you are conducting the education of MPs, because that is your job to say – no, you are wrong. You know, as many MP clubs as it is to hold Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, he can't individually educate each MP, there are plenty of them, and secondly, if it's been three and a half years of this call, then MPs should have learned what Article 162 means. The amendment contains, so it says, the first indent - the corresponding member of this Rules of Procedure as the legal basis for submitting amendments, the quote does not count at the time, you know that. The second is the name and member of the draft law to which the amendment applies, the solution proposed, the explanation which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and the objective to be achieved through the adoption of the amendment and, where appropriate, the assessment of the impact of the proposed solution on the budget. Item two, the writing of amendments is subject to uniform methodological rules for the making of rules. It's a finished quote. If someone doesn't know what the essence of the amendment of the SRS is, it's so clear. First, let me do this little depression, when Mrs. Radeta says founding, so that's the key word in Article 1 and point 1. Whoever wrote this bill, which is not Sinisha Mali, the Ministry of Finance, but the people of USAID, forgot to put the key word "founding", and then there are Serbian radicals, right, Mr. Minister, that what is main and key is how funds will be set up. It was an observation and ignorance and ignorance of this member and a lack of understanding of the amendments of counterpart Despotovic. It says – point 6 and other issues of importance for the area of investment funds with a public offering, and the colleague made quite sense that it should be spoken at this point about how these funds come in here. So, please, fellow Martinovic in this period until these few days because of the Interparliamentary Union, work the National Assembly, you look individually, you are the man who has seen everything, seen what the capacities of your parliamentary group are like. Here's to education, and I believe they'll learn a lot from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62200	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you know it well. My role is not educational here, but in accordance with my Rules of Procedure, I am helping the President of the National Assembly and acting in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. No, no, no, Okay, thank you. The word is Mrs. Ana Čaapić, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62201	As an authorised representative of his parliamentary group for a set of laws we are discussing in particular yesterday and today, I would like to point out that what my colleague Despotovic is proposing, and the government has refused, is regulated by Article 57. There, clean as a complement of all this. So it's precisely regulated by a member of 57, where it's precise in which cases of alternative investment funds management companies can be in debt. For these reasons, the Government did not adopt this amendment because it was regulated by precise law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62202	Thank you, Mrs. Charp. Mr. Alexander Markovic's word, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62203	I see some of them are thrilled. I thank the chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about investment, investment funds should be highlighted so far by the Serbian government's results in this field. The results are excellent. And the data that we got 2.3 billion euros from foreign direct investment in the first seven months of this year and that's 43% more than last year for the same period, but that last year was also a record when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment, if I'm not mistaken, 3.5 billion euros. What is very important is that all international financial institutions acknowledge that we are the leader in attracting foreign direct investment. So these are all facts that no one's even trying to challenge. When I say no one, I certainly mean credible participants in public discussions when it comes to the state of the economy, when it comes to the state of the economy of our country, therefore, the professional public and certainly those political parties that participate in the public and political life of our country, but also through the institutions of the system. I certainly do not list those whose final range is stickers by traffic signs and by entrances, or the entrance door to institutions. They show their seriousness and their political agenda every day by putting on these stickers. It's a good thing they're doing it. That is the best way to see all the joylessness of Dragan Gilas and the Alliance for Serbia. The bravest among them, some would say, is certainly Bosko Obradovic, who overcame everyone else in that sad alliance, so he took the opportunity the other day to stick a sticker at a press conference in the National Assembly's hall on the National Assembly's floor. I don't understand why security didn't react that way, but I hope it doesn't happen again. What is interesting in this sense, which is how Goran Jesic of DS commented on this Boskov performance. Look out, this is what Goran Jesic says, not me – how to look like an idiot, a moron and an idiot. A manual containing the following text in three images. These three pictures are Bosko Obradovic in an action to glue the sticker to the National Assembly. We repeat these are the words of Goran Jesic. I don't even pick up the characters that tear up the Serbian flag, so they're justifying it with some kind of artistic freedom. Not my art freedom. Artistic freedom is the secession of the Serbian flag. That's where I think of that Trifunović. He's not ashamed. How many of our ancestors died for that Serbian flag, for that same flag, how many fathers, grandfathers gave their lives for the Serbian flag, that same flag that he ripped the other day. I really don't know what it takes in this country to finally bring the prosecution into action against this Trifunovic. That's where I don't get people who smoke marijuana in public. Here's a picture. I don't know if the camera can zoom in. It's nice to see this guy who's been wild for the past few months around Belgrade, and in the end, citizens have had a chance to see it in their daily papers. And if anyone's been wondering why this man's been wild for months around Belgrade, here's the answer. It's probably some means, it's probably some kind of substance, it's probably got an extra incentive after using this, and then you're chasing traffic signs. Then attack construction sites, then attack fences, traffic signs and everything. I'm really worried, Mr. Chairman, about the growing aggression in our society, so lately we've had opportunities for some of the public figures to be the object of the attack, mostly on social networks, but lately it's also happening in everyday life. Here's a chance to see how they got into our famous actor Nenad Jezdić, who was attacked by private property, a car, a place where he works. I just have to wonder what's next. If he was attacked today's property, is he next to be attacked physically? I appeal to the authorities to deal with these and these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62204	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62205	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, I use every opportunity, of course, in the context of a law that's on the agenda, to highlight the major changes in the environment I come from, and that's the town of Leskovac, in the last seven years. After many years, wandering and stagnation, the period during which it was almost impossible to find a job, this year 2019, we are witnessing a situation where the citizens of Leskovec have a choice where to work. For the first time in 30 years, employers have been forced, for market reasons, to improve the conditions regarding wages and the quality of the working environment, as workers in Leskovac can now quit to a bad employer and find a better job immediately. This isn't just a story. Whoever doesn't believe, come to Leskovac and talk to the employers. On the side of the offer, there are still citizens who want a job, but the situation has changed, and now they are asking questions and salaries and working conditions, and workers are looking for better conditions because they are offered greater opportunities. I'd say the first step in the key goal of our operation is to get people to work, done. Now it's time for the second part, and that's a pay hike, one without the other is not going. All of this would not have been possible if in 2012, a very important reform of stabilisation and a return of trust in our financial system, a reform that took time, in view of the disastrously inherited situation and in 2012, and these are facts. We've watched the fluctuations every month from 118 to 125 dinars. Someone from that yellow government before 2012, put that speculative money in his pocket. Let's remember the faceless robbery of state banks by the same, fake Europeans. The stabilisation of the course, inflation, are the outstanding achievements of the current leadership of the National Bank of Serbia, headed by Governor Tabakovic. An ambience was created in which employers wanted to open jobs, in my Leskovec, and as a positive consequence of that fact, my fellow citizens could find a job and get higher wages. A stable environment, without a great fluctuation in course, in such a long period of time is indeed a historic achievement, because it was never with us. Inflation is under control, therefore, it can also be planned to produce investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62206	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The word after the amendment is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62207	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, encouraged me to debate my colleagues, and as you know the development of the Serbian economy is the most important task of the government of the Republic of Serbia and all parameters are being monitored, so that the progress that our economy is making continues, and that, with all the investments that we attract, these legal frameworks for more opportunities, which will contribute to even faster development. It is also with innovative actions that would be a new momentum for development at the moment, and these funds are a very good opportunity for innovators who have ideas, but not initial capital to start a business. Now, on my part, one appeal to all those who may have waited for the opportunity to join the business world, now have the opportunity to realize their business venture, because certainly small and medium-sized enterprises are what our economy needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62208	Thank you, Mrs. Kovacevic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62209	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted refers to Article 1. Point 6 is amended and reads as follows: "The ransom of a portion of an open investment fund". And right now I have to say that I'm not on "you" with these laws, but I'm going to make my impression and my vision. In the current version, the earlier Investment Funds Act experienced a transformation into two, let's call it a new law. Many in different ways try to master investment flows, but in this far fewer succeeds, from the number of those who remain in the attempt, so in this game, the cards are constantly on the table, and the winnings are not always known. Finance is a highly sensitive area. They're not a permanent category, they're not a vacuum, they're not a glass bell, they're exposed to various pressures and influences every day, so they remind you of a wild mountain river that you have to climb down in a thin rubber boat to a quiet port. The proposal for this law raises the question - will something so dynamic be arranged, or can it? The answer would have been a few. It is evident that we have mastered the legislative technique, but what about the analysis of the effects of its application? Because the motive for its adoption is not practical reasons, but EU directives, which are being strengthened every day, so in the directive we are more everything that could be directed. We'll pass the laws. Will we develop them and improve the capital market in Serbia? The Serbian Radical Party is asking the question - could it be possible to secure a more stable and secure operation of investment funds, i.e. a higher level of protection in the event of risk investments by alternative funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62210	Thank you, Professor. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 19 years we have been only dealing with laws as it suits our inogenous path to the EU. The former government, which introduced this programme, absurd, which is very harmful to our economy, which is a subsidy and practice program for giving free land and all licenses to foreign investors and has come from the assumption that a foreign investor is more important, more valuable, better, better, beautiful, and I don't know what it is, than a domestic investor. So, we have brought Serbia's economy into such a situation that there is a huge dependence and a huge impact so-called. The lobby of foreign investors, who have just begun to tailor state policy and who will exert very high pressure if the Serbian government, not only this one but any other one, begins to make some decisions that are not in their interest. It's one danger apparently no one in power recognizes. The other thing is, why is this one practice so bad? So, if one investor gets everything from the Serbian state for free, both land and permits and another 10,000 euros per job or more, what do you think if its production fails, its economic activity fails, it happens every day, simply, the companies fail, they fail, some competition occurs, etc., do you think, will the stranger shut down that factory or that company in the country where he invested a lot of funds for a long period of years, or will close down and go where he got everything for free? It is one danger that no one really sees, and this law deepens that possibility and their influence in Serbia, as well as everything that is brought from the sphere of economy. That's absolutely fine with strangers. I want to remind you that today's situation in the world is not what it may have been at the time of the establishment of the current EU, therefore, of the Mastricht Treaty. The richest part of the world is no longer Europe, and it is not normal for a country like Serbia to just rely on and achieve a monopoly, when I say foreign investments, only those coming from the West, and when we saw it, too, when a huge investor that is not from Western Europe or this so-called. political west, then we are here and conditioned and there are pressures to give up such practices, although those who do not come from Western Europe are much more successful, do business on a long-term basis and have saved some of our companies that have been in danger of falling apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62212	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Now, according to the amendment, Mr. Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the concern of my colleague Alexander Seselj, but Serbia is not a non-serious state, nor is it a naive state, and there is no thieving authority as it was until 2012. Hypothetically, a colleague is right that a businessman or a company can fail in the meantime, while achieving certain subsidies from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and now I am not bringing it into question whether it is a foreign investor or a domestic investor, are fully equal in terms of subsidies, but, as far as I know, for the amount of subsidies they have made, they also have to lay a bank guarantee. So that money, in some ways, while the subsidy period is going on, has to be covered by bank guarantees. Nothing can do about "my mother" like it used to be, as it was given to various companies that were supposed to be brands, so the entire factories disappeared overnight, because there was no appropriate guarantee that part of the subsidies provided by the Republic of Serbia would be provided. Now we're in a completely different situation. So, it has the right of any investor, whether domestically, whether foreign, to grant subsidies from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also for the amount of these subsidies, it has to lay down a bank guarantee that actually confirms that it will be seriously engaged in this activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62214	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Seselj has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62215	First of all, we as a country that has one already experienced where we were represented by investments as rescuers, it was in Želizara in Smederev, when it was "U.S. Steel" bought to Jelizara, we who have experience that one company that came here to do business, everything is possible from the state and it doesn't have so much to do with who was then in power, whether it was Gilas, whether it was Vukic, as if it had to do with business whether any personal solution is related to that business, if they don't have any interest, they'll walk away from here and leave everything, here's to you all for one dollar. It's one danger, it may not happen tomorrow, but it can happen in the next period. So, our economy is heavily dependent on the influence of foreigners, who simply if they become so powerful, and every day they become more powerful, they can start to influence political decisions, to say – you know what, if you want to join the Euro-Asian Union, if you want the Chinese to be in Bor or Smederevo, we'll get out of here and all of this you've invested from subsidies will fail and the workers will be back on the street. So it's a danger no one recognizes. We're throwing economic growth here, comparing ourselves with Germany, saying we have bigger economic growth than Germany, but it's not a German country that we can compare with. We should compare ourselves with Bulgaria, Romania, those are countries that are EU members, which are in much worse shape than Serbia. Let's take a look at their parameters. Because of the political pressure, since Bulgaria became a member of the EU, instead of the foreign trade surplus they had in co-operation with Russia, they now have with their largest foreign trade partner, Germany, a deficit. Public debt, which was about 11 billion in 2000, is now 46 billion and more. It is the fate of commitment to the EU and Europe. I'm not saying that Serbia should be in isolation, that it should ignore co-operation with Western Europe and the EU, but that can't be the only commitment and be the setting so that automatically someone who comes from Europe is good and has come to help us, because that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62216	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one is just coming to help us, he has his own interests, not from the EU, not from the rest of the world. Let's get that straight again. So that's it. We can compare with both Romania and Bulgaria and economic indicators, however, in something else we cannot. As EU members, they receive much more funding from the EU budget than the Republic of Serbia, and this is measured by tens of billions of euros. That's why they have certain parameters that are more favourable than us, because, behold, they get money from that half-breeding, evil EU. We cannot compare the story of “Sartid ” to any of today’s stories. First, Sartid was not privatised, no subsidies were granted. "Sartid" is, in my opinion, unlawfully through the Agency for Rehabilitation, Banks' bankruptcy and liquidation in a court procedure that was to be conducted in the Trade Court in Pozarevec, which was held in the Commercial Court in Belgrade, because the local authority of Pozarec, was sold "Ju-es style" for 25 or 26 million dollars, as I recall, at the time of "Sablje". It was sold by Zoran Zivkovic, no one else, that farmer. That's how the former regime led the Republic of Serbia. Comrade Seselj, we can talk about this and that Miroljub Labus, then, as director of the Agency for Rehabilitation, Banks' assets that had a claim against Sartide, and I think that amount is about a billion or two hundred million dollars. But certainly, the Belgrade Commercial Court has taken that debt, which has already been written off to reduce the value of the property that Sartid had. The arrival of SNS to power has passed since that privatisation for 10 and more years, so it was not possible to initiate any criminal proceedings due to relative obsolescence at that time. But, I say, it's a former solution, which I never see in this room again, to talk to them about how they sold out the property of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62218	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62219	What you said earlier is about funds that Bulgaria, for example, has from the EU. First of all, that is not true, it is one myth that exists in Serbia in anyone who advocates European integration and those who sincerely advocate it, and also those like we have experienced these 20 years that have been paid in Serbia to spread that Europhilia and to speak about how the golden age, honey and milk are coming here, etc. The facts are completely different. First of all, when it comes to Bulgaria, the country we need to compare with, so we cannot compare with Finland, Germany and the Netherlands, these are our first neighbours. We're in the same situation. They became EU members exclusively because of political pressures to get as far away from Russia as possible. It exists today in Serbia. Bulgaria first had to enter the NATO Pact to join the EU, so that the NATO pact would go to the Black Sea. That's, I guess, the fact, it's clear to everyone. But from the funds promised between 2008, so when they joined the EU by 2013, they received only, in five years, a billion and 300 million euros. So these are the facts. Every following year, they were blocked by political conditions, whether invented or not, to enter the front against Russia, to impose sanctions, to act exclusively as required by the EU and NATO pact, and then made-up -- you didn't fight corruption enough, and it is blocked. As far as the EU's influence is concerned, 700,000 people in 10 years have lost Bulgaria since joining the EU, and the Lisbon Treaty, so-called. The EU Constitution, which guarantees the free movement of goods and the movement of citizens, did not apply in this case. Bulgarian workers still had to get work permits to get jobs. So that's our destiny if by some miracle it would happen that after Serbia recognises Kosovo, it sometimes enters the EU for the next 50 or 100 years, if the EU then exists. It's our destiny, we have to look at it, and I absolutely agree with everything that's been said a little before about those who were in power, but it's the responsibility of the authorities now to investigate it and then send someone to prison for it, and not that they're just serving as people who, therefore, are campaigning against the people of those who have never been, to show themselves better today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62220	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62221	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear fellow Members, I'm just going to give you one example, here's just one example. Other funds in the EU include funds held by countries in the Danube region. In all these years, the Republic of Serbia has managed to get around 200m euros from these funds. It was mostly for the port of Belgrade, for the port of Novi Sad. It seems to me that a certain amount was for the construction of a water source in the Great City and the Dove City. So, all in all for all these years, something like 200 million euros. Do you know how much Romania gets a year? About 600. So, in 10 years, we couldn't withdraw funding from one fund, as long as Romania as a full member of the EU withdraws in one year. It's similar with Bulgaria. Let's not talk about unintended transfers coming from the EU budget to some countries, because then the country decides how money will be spent. Let's look at the dedicated transfers, so you'll see how much money you can, if the government is serious, to withdraw and invest in infrastructure, not to raise credits in these amounts to reach some parameters for normal economic development. You know, without the construction of roads, the reconstruction of railways, you can't achieve economic development either, because the simple prices of transport and traffic affect what kind of economic climate you have for investors, whether they're domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62222	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Alexander Seselj has a word, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62223	Also, mythology about Romania, as well as about Bulgaria, Romania is a slightly larger country, has slightly more inhabitants, but fate is exactly the same, although numbers may be slightly different. First of all, from 1993 to 2011, from four billion dollars to 127 billion dollars in public debt, $12 billion in public debt to Romania, and in the EU since 2007, on January 1st, as well as Bulgaria. What do you think is more often that Romanians and Bulgarians are working in Serbia, looking for a job as superiors or as any kind of worker, or Serbs in Bulgaria or Romania? I think this first situation is far more common, and this is the fate of today's average worker in Romania. Also, as for Bulgarians, the Lisbon Treaty, free movement of workers, does not apply to Romanians either. They also go, be careful, EU members working on black in the EU. As for their funds, just as it freezes the EU funds that are promised, so just go in, just do so, so everything will be right, just like in Bulgaria, and in Romania, based on various political conditions, they had to increase there due to the IMF's VAT to 24%, there's a huge increase in public debt, enormously, and there the funds have been blocked due to political conditions, among other things, the fight against corruption, insufficient foreign-political orientation towards the EU, etc. It's our destiny. That's what's waiting for us, if some hypothetical case happens if we become members of the EU one day, and it won't change anything. We're still going down, we're going the same way the authorities did before October 5th, i.e. The authorities after October 5th, therefore, in something that has no perspective, there is no future, and we have somewhere to look, to learn about experience, what happened to our first neighbours Bulgarians and Romanians, whom we need to compare ourselves with, not to talk about Croatia, etc. and some other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62224	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Veroljub Arsic has a word, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62225	A colleague of Seselj, as we set out in 2001 in the EU, when the country was led by Djilas, Tadic, Bojan Pajtic and the team around them, I count even Vojislav Kostunica, the difference between Serbia and Romania's earnings would be so that Serbian citizens would go to Romania to work. That's the biggest problem. In 2012, we managed to convince the citizens of Serbia that such a thieving government was leading them to ruin. Now it's a completely different situation. We can talk about many things, but I prefer to talk about economic parameters, which is that in Serbia today is much easier, incomparably easier to live than six or seven years ago. Is that still enough? No, but it's processes. After wars, sanctions and one monster made by the Democrats and the former regime by its thieving privatisations, by printing money and all of this, it cannot be corrected overnight. But that's why, as serious and responsible people, we should cooperate with everyone, not be exclusive to one side or the other. That's the problem you're talking about. The two countries are mainly facing the EU and no one else, and Serbia is facing anyone with whom it can co-operate and who wants to co-operate with Serbia. I don't see why that's the problem. It's not investments that come from China that are bad investments. Not even investments coming from Turkey are bad investments. Not even investments coming from the EU are bad investments. Everyone here has an economic interest, but I guess we have some economic interest in these people coming here, too. So don't be exclusive. Our goal is to achieve in every sense the standards that the EU sets as a condition for someone to become a full member of the EU. So that's what we want first because of our citizens. These standards aren't bad, that's why I'm saying, they don't live badly in Austria, not in Germany, not in France, so they have some standards that are good. We want to apply these standards in Serbia, and whether the EU's political decision to want Serbia or not, as a full member, is already an EU position. But first, we only do it for our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62226	The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62227	Well, first of all, because of our citizens, we should look up to some countries that have recently become EU members and see how citizens live in those countries, not to believe those promises that come that I don't even know what they get. We saw that it remained empty, only the letter left on the paper for these countries that we can truly compare with. Why can we need someone? As a cheap workforce, as a country that gives abnormal subsidies and absolute land is obtained free of charge, sometimes up to a million euros. We saw Amethek in Subotica received 1m euros in land for free. So that's what they need us for. And if they want to develop something here, they're stories for little children. And so until 2012, and then we see, personal changes, politics is the same, the EU has no alternative. What the EU was in 1992 and what was in 2019 are two completely different worlds. No one is talking about the EU's golden perspective anymore, how it will be in 10 or 20 years, today the EU's survival as such is being discussed in general. For the first time, one country is leaving the EU. As for Romania and Bulgaria, they also had to implement austerity measures like Serbia had to do in 2014, just because it was an IMF dictatorship. All the economic parameters you're talking about have grown worse, and external debt and the poison deficit, unemployment, everything. We were talking here the other day, yesterday, about fishing. Bulgaria has been promised more than a billion euros in the fisheries project. They didn't get a single euro of that money, not a single euro. It's so Serbia's fate. I welcome that we should be facing both east and west and working with everyone, etc., but that's not realistic and that's not possible. This is not possible because if one country wants to become an EU member, it must give up and meet political pressures, which are primarily aimed at turning their backs on both China and Russia and for Serbia, which has always been, for centuries, a friendly country and an ally of Russia, to become its enemy. And then we'll forget about the investments and everything else, and only then is the second question of what will happen to our territorial integrity. No one's thinking about it. Policy is being conducted from today to tomorrow, as the institutions of the Washington Consensus say, and this will ultimately be the worst for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62228	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that may have been what some others lived from the promises to the 2012 that ruled. We don't rely on it. We rely first on ourselves, on our potentials. You don't live off those promises, nor do we think of them. If something that was promised and happened, it happened, it's great, if it doesn't happen, nothing happens, we move on. Let's get this straight. I don't know what the sources are that economic indicators in Serbia are worse than they were before 2012. Don't trust people who don't know anything about the economy, or the economy, who talk maliciously, about the results, because one of the first conditions that shows the country's economic stability is that inflation in the country is within the framework of the one that was designed, the second is that the price of capital on the financial market is becoming less, the third is the country's credit, if it's in debt on the international market, and these are all parameters that are better than they were before 2012 or 2014. Also, don't talk about the rise in public debt because we'll talk about it when the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget is up. I'm telling you to talk, just let me show you what the interest on the loans that were raised by 2012, how much has been paid to date, so let's see how much is in the public debt structure. I know what I'm saying, and those who don't understand it, I can't help them. So let's get that straight first, and then let's see if it's that bad to raise a loan that's meant to be. So, not to cover the liquidity of the budget, but dedicated to building roads, reconstructing railways, for various other infrastructure projects. In this way, we improve our macroeconomic situation, the conditions for investment or, as was done by 2012, the rise in non-intentional loans, which are purely for the purpose of covering the liquidity of the budget, i.e. the increase in pensions and wages in the public sector. You can't change that. One more thing. Is the worse parameter, let's say, in 2012, 27% unemployment or today when it's about 10%, and that 10% is actually the limit when the labour market struggle starts. You don't have cheap labour anymore. Now the employer has to fight for a high-quality worker to get to him. This was not possible in 2012, 2013, 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62230	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has Alexander Seselj again, though this can go on forever. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62231	Mr. Marinkovic, I would like to commend your democratic potential and you yourself have said that we are in no hurry. First of all, one thing I want to say is that I'm interested in one situation, from the parameters with the countries that we can compare ourselves with, so Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia, how many people are less in these countries than before EU membership? The promised golden age, promised investments, better living standards, higher wages, all that, and in Croatia there will now be less than four million inhabitants, in Bulgaria 700,000 less, in Romania for more than a million less, i.e. more than a million people will live less in Romania in the last 10 years. It's the EU. The struggle for the birthright declared here by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in direct contrast to European integration. The example I often cite is at the time of Russia's first sanctions by the EU. The possibility has opened up here, Rasim Ljajic talked about it, about our agricultural products, about them replacing agricultural products from Poland, Spain and where not. We have received orders here, a diplomatic note so that it would not be in line with our European integrations that we increase our exports, thus doing good for our economy, but to agree with the EU and we have given it up. It is Serbia's fate if European integration continues. The conditions will not end at the very end of the accession negotiations. We're going to be conditioned every time, and it's not what's promised today... Money from EU funds is not Serbian that Serbia can use it, but will continue to decide whether there are opportunities, whether we have turned against Russia enough, whether we have met their requirements enough, and then somewhere in the perspective, we will be able to use not the promised funds, but maybe 10% of those funds. What are we gonna give? We'll compromise with our territorial integrity, we'll be ready to give up our territory if we want to continue on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62232	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word for this amendment now has Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62233	Thank you. I'd say the same thing about those investment funds we're talking about. I think we all need one bigger investment, specifically related to these undeveloped areas, to the Southeastern Serbia area, where we could provide better conditions for the lives of all our citizens, to provide better roads, to provide better railways, to provide all those alternative visions, the kind of energy, because nature has given us everything. We do not have enough resources, but through these funds we can ensure that by investing in these small environments, by investing in agriculture, by investing in everything that gives life is a chance for the development of our country of Serbia. The funds we're talking about right now are something very important for our future period. I also once again support our ministry, the finance minister, that we must finish this, we must adopt it, because only by investing in these environments that I am talking about, Southeast Serbia, mountainous areas, in agriculture, in our villages, we have a chance to ensure the development of our country of Serbia. We are witnessing what happened by 2012 and we have witnessed what privatisations were like from 2000 to 2012. By the way, I'm always talking about my neighborhood, my community, because the Municipality of Srlig from which I came until 2000 was a community that really had a development. By 1990, we were one of the most developed municipalities in southeastern Serbia. We had more workers than the population. After 2000, after destroying the economy, those catastrophic privatisations, we came to the conclusion that the municipality has undeveloped status. We expect to put a much bigger accent on these small areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas, to invest in our agriculture, to invest in our villages, because nature has given us everything. We have to use these funds. We have a chance to work on it, to secure investment and that there in those areas of our people can live more normally, to provide living conditions because we really talk about something that is very important. Tourism, tourism development, agriculture is what we should be working on. On the other hand, without such investments, without funds, without assistance, and the EU is our future, I am sure, because there is much more investment in agriculture and through agriculture, through investments in such areas, believe me, I am sure that we will develop our Serbia as well. Once again, Your Honor, I support all these suggestions. I think we really need to work to invest more in these small communities, such as municipalities in southeastern Serbia, such as our agriculture and our village. I will not vote in favour of this amendment, but I think it is necessary that we adopt the law and that it is for the benefit of all our people living in southeastern Serbia and throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62234	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62235	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on open investment funds. I asked the amendment to remove the mentioned member. I felt that this article was absolutely unnecessary, because the very bill clearly shows who its provisions apply to. We must recognise that currently in Serbia there are a large number of investments that are vital to the citizens of Serbia. This is where I think of the institutions in the road and rail network. What is not commendable are some things that are related to the Ministry of Transport, better said, with the ministry's minister, Zorana Mihajlovic. This is the famous Bechtel case, and in connection with the construction of the Moravia Corridor. The Serbian Radical Party has long warned that something like this is inadmissible. In advance, it was known who would be the contractor and is far more expensive than all the other bidders. The worst part is, it's a huge asset, about 300 million dollars. I find it inadmissible and, despite the fact that there are things you've done well, this kind of thing throws a stain at everything you've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62236	Thank you. The word has Olivera Ognjanović, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62237	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with my colleague that there is a lot of investment in Serbia. Serbia is building and developing. However, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. It is necessary to include the draft law, i.e. to highlight which funds are the exceptions to which this law is not applied. Article 4 refers to closed investment funds which primarily invest their assets in shares traded on the stock market and do not buy out their shares except in cases listed in the founding act. The closed investment funds shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the capital market and the provisions of the laws governing companies. The same applies to investment funds without public offerings, as these institutions collect capital, without promoting the sale of their units to the public. I agree with the reasoning given, which says that the amendment is rejected for reasons that the institutions for collective investment which are not subject to this bill are further specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62238	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62239	When the laws for the first time appeared, the first Investment Funds Act in Serbia, the SRS, was 10 years old, was an opposition, as is now, political party, and then large changes in the securities market were announced on the stock market and on the stock market. We cannot say that a number of funds have not been established in the past 10 years, but as you yourself acknowledge now, 10 years later, in some major developmental scale of Serbia's economy, it has not benefited. The funds know that themselves, so here are the colleagues who worked in the economy, in the banking sector, they're very careful when it comes to certain investments. It is not that simple, first because the decision on how they will place their funds and where to invest is not only the manager's decision and that portfolio he has, but the entire management society that makes the decision. Now we're talking about an open investment fund with a public offering. In EU countries, when they decide to go to a stock market, they also see very much what it is that is profitable, what is the risk of investment, how much losses are possible. So you can't say with such praises, this is just a legal framework, that something will be great, that the economy, small, medium-sized enterprises, individual industries will benefit immediately. How do you know that? How do you know what the management policy of these societies and those who are members of these funds is? You only hope that this opportunity will bring Serbia to have new startups, to invest in this IT sector, etc. However, the very way of controlling these funds, provided for by this law, which has envisioned USD per SRS, is not good. We believe that instead of the Commission for Papers from the value of the licence, which follows the work of the funds and management society, it should be done exclusively by the Ministry of Finance, in order to prevent the possibility, because you will adopt, you have a congregation majority here, but to promise us that it will be the minister who will control the impact on the Serbian capital market coming from these countries, whether it is money, or whether it is the companies that invest in these funds, who have clear intentions, who want good for our economy, and not so – we will adopt the law and let anyone who cannot even operate in those markets come here, so Serbia is soft for everything and everything, as for cheap labour, for minimum pay of workers. So now we're going to perform broadly to those who want to invest their money in these funds, especially when it comes to these alternative investment funds. In the principle debate, we have said about these laws that we should first of all base ourselves, if we want to help our domestic economy and these small and medium-sized enterprises, on that accumulated capital as an surplus that you have in the budget to make a different budget structure for next year, that all the money spent on various agencies, and they are over 130, focus on the Development Fund and other concrete projects in Serbia, because you will agree, there is also a colleague Milija said, I really agree with him, knowing the end, as well as Western Serbia, as well as the southern Serbia, as well as the potentials that Serbia has in tourism, and in agriculture, and in all segments, what is the strategy of economic development. We will end this mandate of the Serbian Parliament without, in many branches, having not come out with some strategic projects at all, but rather an ad walk, from opportunity to opportunity. The Fosfwagen will be here now. He didn't come. "Mercedes" is a wish. So Fosfvagen came and pushed into Icarbus. You can't do that. What's he doing out there living in some village in Zlatar? Believe me, during the summer I went to a remote village, otherwise known as a tourist destination, the village of Štitkovo. I don't think you've even heard of it. Only those who came from that neighborhood went there. When I went through that whole area, that's the beauty of the Zlatar, that kind of pasture, that kind of opportunity, believe me, we saw four cows, maybe one little flock of sheep. It's the same on the Cave. There's no developed livestock in there. It takes a lot more to invest in all these parts without talking about what happened to the Kursumli Bane. It is now sold, but parts of the infrastructure around should be done. Have you seen that postman who's breaking through and where he's going to take the people's basic groceries to the villages around the Kursumli spa? It's not that simple. Now some will come to you. You're just repeating as if, God forbid, mantra here - the EU rule, the directive, will be fine, it's important that we bring a legal framework to bring the laws into line. Wait, guys, what's this particular guy got there? I looked at Ivan from Ub. They started some there, and they wish they had more investment. Right? Every normal wants to invest because the invested dinar in all of this, in healthy food production – will return, to tourism – three times will return. That's not the problem. And infrastructure and highways, but it'll all follow along. Be assured that if you are watching, and there are those of you who may be following it, you are interested in the economic profession, so you are reading these magazines, both domestic and foreign, is not such an easy situation with these funds. If you want or some economic operators from your municipality so contact some fund from any EU country and say, "Here, we have an excellent climate, a healthy country, a climate, everything, you have some failed factory, can you accept to look at it and invest your money and capital to bring it back to life here?" You guarantee and you say -- this used to work well, these yellow ones, and all the five-pointers destroyed it, before that, there were people doing it, it was a safe profit, it was a safe placement, do you know what the way to get them to come and invest in that place of yours and give money from these funds? This is just a legal framework that has not been well done, which is exclusively under the EU directive. We don't mind, but we've been erasing everywhere that only talks about EU countries. We have made absolutely that all the countries are welcome with their capital, primarily capital for direct investments from China and Russia, because their national funds and the joint fund formed by the Chinese-Russian government in 2014 and that a big boom on the world market and we can expect only such countries, which have huge capital, and it is good that we are on this map, is it so, Professor Obradovic, Chinese new silk road and that we expect these direct foreign investments to come. We, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, think back in 2005 in the Assembly have passed a legal framework to create these free industrial zones across Serbia, and it was later expanded with seven cities, changes and additions to several more. These industrial parks that are supposed to rot all over Serbia, where they are abandoned halls, where people used to work, that you know, Mr Marinkovic, that it can through these small productions, raise Serbia's economy. How did the Chinese do that? If you look, they made one, we were there as a delegation, a brand-new city like Sujo, one of the biggest industrial parks in the world. And nice to focus on, with such strategic partners from those countries, making these industrial parks, not bringing these individual factories from the west that are going to ask you here from six to 11 grand per job, with a short cycle of production, uncertain how long it's going to take, with a tooled one. They are mainly looking for cheap and low-quality labour, and we need new technological developments and processes that will give Serbia a boost, above all, to increase GDP. I used the time of my authorised representative. If I went a little further, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62240	No problem, all right, thank you. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, Mrs. Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62241	Thank you. I agree with the government's proposal that the amendment should not be accepted, because one of the basic objectives of this law is to improve the capital market. I have to say that since 2013 we have not been on the international capital market. However, this year we were on the London Stock Exchange, and I must say that by going out on the London Stock Exchange, we have restored our international reputation regarding our financial stability and have regained our reputation as regards the confidence of foreign investors in investing in our country. The London Stock Exchange has reported more than 6.5, or more than 320 investors, for a billion euros offered. We got the historical lowest interest rate of 1.62%. It is a historic success and all congratulations to the government and to you ministers personally. What was that money used for? That money was just used to repay those expensive loans that the government owed us until 2011, whose interest rate was over 7.5%. Only at this low interest rate of 1.62% was savings at 3.8 billion dinars. Otherwise, as for the confidence of foreign investors, as regards our country's economic stability and economic progress, I must point out that the Republic of Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, the government's policy, is stepping forward. Serbia is the fastest growing economy in Europe, for the second time in a row. In 2018, the dinar was declared the second most stable currency. Serbia currently has 41,000 construction sites. By 2012, there were 1,550 sites in the complete territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today there are over 2,000 construction sites in Belgrade alone, meaning more construction sites than in 2012 was on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. Why are construction sites important? Because increasing employment and employment is increased realistically, really because data is obtained from the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. Unemployment is now record low, 10.3%, but for SNS, it remains high, and we will continue to make every effort to bring it closer to that figure in the countries of democracy, developed in EU countries. As for investment in the industrial zone, I must point out that the municipality from which I come is the Municipality of Priboj, that one of the largest industrial zones in western Serbia was built, that in that industrial zone that was once devastated, abandoned land now operates several companies from Spain, from the Netherlands, from Turkey, but our companies from Požega are also operating. About 450 workers were employed in the industrial zone. Serbia thanks to the real-time economy of steps forward. These laws are important not only for the sake of agreeing with the EU, but we cannot forget that Serbia has exactly the largest foreign trade exchange with EU countries, but for our own sakes and for the betterment of every citizen's life. We can't forget, and we can't forget, it's a fact, and that's the fact that in German companies over 60,000 of our citizens, that in French companies over 15,000 of our citizens, these are all receipts and incomes from our citizens and incomes, which, after all, fills both the republican budget and the budgets of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62242	Thank you, Mrs. Wolfeye. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 8th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62243	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal for a law on investment funds at first sight looks like a product of serious labour, but unfortunately that is the conclusion that has been carried out solely on the basis of the scope, when you look at the proposal itself. However, when it comes to the content of the Alternative Fund Law proposal, we can see that there is a huge impact of various NGOs and that these laws have also created the EU for us. We do not need this because their interest is exclusively their economic domination and certainly does not suit them economically strong Serbia. As I said, both of these investment funds laws are within the obligations Serbia has in the EU accession process. When it comes to investment, we should not rely exclusively on potential investors coming from the EU, but rather rely on those investors and those investments that come from our traditional friends, which are Russia and China. We must indeed seek exclusively strategic investment funds and achieve co-operation only with verified funds. When it comes to the business of investment funds, specifically open investment funds, in order to avoid any possible abuse, all issues of their business must be in the power of the ministry and that is what we have proposed both this amendment and most of the amendments. Thank you. When it comes to the business of investment funds, in particular, open investment funds in order to avoid any possible abuse, all issues of their business must be in the power of the ministry and that is what we have proposed both this amendment and most of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62244	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. After the amendment, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62245	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers, so when we talk about the level of capital, the management company, the money share is at least 125,000 e's in dinar equivalent, and that's what's important to say. That amount shall be paid to the provisional account. What is also important is that the capital of the management company must at any time be greater than the minimum amount of the underlying capital. The Securities Commission is responsible for the adoption of sub-legislative acts that regulate the application of the law in this area, but it is also responsible for monitoring and for expressing certain supervisory measures on activities in the development of the capital market, it was not possible to say much and to think a few years ago, and now we are talking about legal solutions concerning the participation and development of investment funds on the Serbian market, so that just the presence of companies with sources of funding would be better. It is working to make trade more intense, to provide greater security for both domestic and foreign investors, to make the domestic market even more attractive. This also shows that the reforms we have implemented have been good, but this opens up new ways for us to develop our economy and our economy. It is only one factor for our GDP growth, in addition to domestic and foreign investments on the competitiveness of the market in addition to the difference between imports and exports, which will ultimately result in the growth of our economy. On the other hand, it also shows us how much things have changed that we're talking about. A few years ago, we talked about the deficit, we talked about the lack of money for salaries and pensions, we talked about a huge public debt, and today we're talking about increasing the minimum cost of work, the increase in wages and pensions, the surplus in the budget, the public debt that is now under the control of the 10% unemployment and all the better results, I think it will also contribute to the laws that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62246	Thank you. The word is according to the amendment, Mr. Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62247	I thank the chairman. In commenting on the proposed law, I would refer to some of the details that are important for conditionally small environments, for the reflection of the law on local level, given the small financial market, such as the financial market in Leskovac. It is no doubt that this law provides a legislative and institutional framework for the regulation of the establishment, functioning of the business, reporting of the fund management company and which is previously in force of the Investment Funds Act, aim also to create the basis for the organisation and establishment and functioning of investment funds, as new forms of institutional investors in the capital market in the Republic of Serbia. The domestic capital market remained underdeveloped with a constant lack of financial instruments in which investors could invest, and much of the assets under the management of domestic investment funds were invested in bank deposits, which is certainly not the purpose of the existence and business of such institutions. The main objective of the adoption of this law and regulation of the fund management company in a manner adequate to the conditions of the domestic capital market. Further precision has been carried out, the management of the precision of the assets in which it is allowed to invest, including restrictions and exemptions from restrictions, more detailed policies, investment fund risk management, as well as remuneration policy, services and depositary liability and Commission supervisory powers. More important elements of the law that allow additional capital engagement, small investors such as potentially much in the territory of the town of Leskovec are the security of profitability and availability of the invested assets. The security of investment, which is one of the main trends in the adoption of this law, is also seen in the fact that investment in investment funds, the individual assets of each investor trust persons with certified professional knowledge from this area, which is in line with the fund's investment strategy, invest funds in different types of assets. A higher level of security, together with the introduction of new forms and structures of the organisation of these funds, will attract more domestic and foreign investors and contribute to the development of the capital market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62248	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62249	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Open and Investment Funds Act is another law in the so-called series. European laws that don't give us much of the results here in our economic and financial environment. That it is also saying that this is the third time that this law has changed, that is to say, it has been improving, as it has been said since 2006, and so on in 2008, and so on. But we see now that this law is changing again from the ground up. So if something had been good, if it had been applicable to us, it would have already yielded results. In light of this law, however, it is said that it will not cause additional financial costs to citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but it is said immediately in the next paragraph whether the application of this law will justify the costs of its application. Which immediately denies this fact that there will be certain costs. Okay, that's not so important. The law is essentially passed for several reasons, but one is essential to enable investors to access the capital market. We know from experience that access to the capital market will always, it was with all regimes, that it will always have a privilege. This is best seen in the case of the construction of the Moravia Corridor where it literally did not have a tender, without any bechtel competition having won a tender for the construction of the corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62250	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. According to the amendment, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62251	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I had to report on this amendment and say this, that there is no interference with really being the amount of countervalue in the euro according to the official middle course of the dinar towards the euro. That's what this is about when bank loans are given and it's necessary because it's both domestic and foreign investors. That's not supposed to be controversial. Also, counterpart Savic said that this amount of 250m euros in dinar versus value is replaced by the words of 30 billion dinars. The course is constantly varying, behind it and taking care of the NBS in this case, so in January 2019 it was 118.49 and the strongest in September was 117.57. They're minimal differences. The National Bank reacts on the international market by intervening and buying by buying two billion and 80m euros since the beginning of the year. Our course is absolutely stable. But there are some small... (The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out of town. I beg you, chair, to silence your colleague, it's not cultural. The point is that the minimum differences in course exist because of this is very precise given to be equivalent in the euro because it is safer and much better because the government has given it in its own explanation. It is nothing controversial to be in dinars, but it must be in euro, in order to ensure foreign investors how much money they invested, because it is in general in line with European regulatory and domestic capital market conditions. So we have to be in the world and be in harmony with them. In this way, we extend the possibility of investment in assets and achieve a better diversification of the risks thus and greater protection of investors. That's why it's expressed in euros, not dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62252	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62253	We suggested in Article 12 that point 5 be deleted, and I have to read it, I don't usually read what it says in that point, or what we delete. Here you are talking about the commission issuing the work permit when it determines the valid requirement set out in the previous Article 11. Well, among other things, that based on the information received, it can be concluded that persons who possess qualified participation are similar and reliable. First of all, it's not said who owns it, but who have, if you did it, translated sorry. No, we know who worked. How can this be determined that someone is like and reliable? Whether on the basis of a party's membership card or not we don't know, we don't understand. But it doesn't matter. It's important that we here today have heard so many nice words, and I really don't want to offend anyone, but believe me, I have the impression that a number of MPs from the government doesn't even know what the capital market is, literally, that they don't know what they're talking about. I really don't want to offend anyone, but just a little bit of education before he talks about some subject. We heard here, I don't know what's not done here, what's going to be done from these funds, how agriculture is going to develop, how this and that are going to develop. But now let's get out of the country of flowers and butterflies, and go back to Serbia. It happened yesterday in Petrovac on Mlavi built a bridge, cost over 100 million dinars. She was a domestic company, domestic capital, some firm called Bauwesen, sort of from Lazarec. Yesterday, Zorana Mihajlovic needed to go to play the bridge. She got a tip that the bridge broke, which is true, hasn't been released yet, has a construction, doesn't have a license. Even Zorana Mihajlovic wouldn't go to open that cracked bridge. He's completely insecure for any movement around him. But since the president of the municipality prepared himself for the festival, then he himself yesterday afternoon, with a couple of associates, played a bridge for pedestrians and cyclists, but that's not the most important either. The most important thing is that after that 300 of them, I don't know now which fund it went from, was at some party, ate, drank, like they really opened the bridge. So that's reality. I don't understand why you won't admit anything at least once from what's your real state of mind in Serbia. Well, you will be forbidden by men to come to the streets, to the neighborhood, to the shops, people will speak to you – hello, what are you talking about, and you see how we live. Don't measure everything by yourself. You, who, besides the parliamentary salary, have boards of directors, mostly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62254	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 49 by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natas Spasojo Jovanovic submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62255	How quickly you read to Mr. Marinkovic, I said fly over and this amendment of mine, but good. We're about to end this first fund of debate and make some summary. The very idea, as regards the institutional way of financing the Serbian economy, is defined in these draft laws through the EU directive and as it is recognised by the government itself. It was the framework, the legal framework to give the possibility to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Many of them really don't dare to take bank loans, many ran into each other after 2000. Some of them who did good business, unfortunately, suffered a breakdown, shut down their businesses, fired their employees. The biggest problem is that Serbia is behind on the development of the economy through funds, these alternative, investment funds in many ways late from other countries in the former socialist system, because if we had had had had the right power, and had not had sanctions from these NATO villains and their friends, the United States, all EU countries, had not had to defend our country, both here KIM in 1999 and 1998, and before that Serbian countries through Drina and Danube, then you would have been able to make a different situation and then you could make a parallel with how these funds can revive the Serbian economy. Unfortunately, in a devastated Serbia, which can only now say that, well, we can't criticise all of you right now, but that's a little bit and it needs a lot more. You have to keep an eye on those funds from the West, which you guys here are not going to invest to that extent. They do not see Serbia as a safe market where their capital should be placed. Others are these factories that receive incentives and subsidies and cheap labour. They'll be very good at measuring what their priority is. This member of the law defines what sub-funds are, "the crown fund". It exists everywhere in the world. In some countries where it is a framework for the functioning of the capital market goes tradition, it also exceeds the country's GDP. But that won't be the case. We can't expect such expansion, because experience so far teaches us that they're mostly looking for something that's cheap here and, less, free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62256	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Zarko Bogatinović. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62257	Thank you, Chairman. The tendency of this law is to pool small capital, small investors' capital, thus allowing participation and financial unification of the conditionality of capital. This would make inactive financial potential in smaller areas active on market principles. This is particularly important that the development of investment funds, especially for small investors, represents an alternative to saving in banks and allows the domestic financial market to be directed towards some financial institutions and to the bank itself. The so-called small investors have a more profitable and secure investment in their assets, thus contributing to a greater financial offer, i.e. further development of the capital market. It is of paramount importance that the fund is required to buy from investors an investment in units, no later than five days from the day of application, making the funds available to the client again. This represents another investment advantage, because unlike the funds provided by banks, whose client cannot have the tools available by the moment of expiry, the funds invested in the Investment Fund are re-accessible to the client and within five days at the latest. This enables better activation of capital in conservatively defined investors such as in most of the territory of the town of Leskovci, investment security, higher profitability and availability of invested funds within the short term is what it is necessary to further activate financial resources from the territory of the city of Leskovci which are currently inactive or in the context of bank supply. Of course, it should also be pointed out that the law, by further harmonisation with EU regulations and the overall regulation of the type of assets, in which the Investment Fund can invest the raised funds, further stimulates the creation of new companies, which will certainly achieve market competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62258	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62259	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, investment funds are very important in agriculture. It would be good if that money were placed in primary agricultural production, livestock and processing, but investment funds always go to high profitable jobs, which is, for example, information, internet, telecommunications, etc. I'm going to re-emerge one example. First, when Mr Soros invested something in Serbia, of course after NGOs, anti-governments or call it whatever you want, he invested in telecommunications and the Internet, in KDS systems. It's this unfortunate schoolgirl, Gilas' partner. These are the most successful exporters of our money. Great exporters of our money, as much as possible. So, these are the ones whose businesses and businesses are in Serbia, where Serbian subscribers, Serbian citizens, make their incomes, but taxes don't pay here. The system they've developed is parasitic - draw as much money as possible, which would be legal if it's legal and as little investment as possible. They used pipelines, power lines, EPS's network, heat, to stretch that system. Solak sold his shares, Soros also sold his shares, but kept a number of shares and certain interests. The United Group, led by David Petreus, known for affairs in the United States, former head of the CIA and former commander of the military forces and by a billion and a billion KKR, bought the United Group, in which they were the main Solak, and for God's sake, Gilas. There is evidence financially of the connection between Gilas and the School of United Media and the "Direct Media". The transactions are worth tens of millions of euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment fund has been buying and reselling telecommunications in Serbia, but all the time in Serbia, they're making losses, fictitious losses. So the SBB, which is the carrier of television channels and the internet in Serbia, is making losses. The related company "Adria News", run by Jugoslav Ćosic, makes a loss of seven and a half million, while Jugoslav Ćosic has a salary of 4,000 euros, so I, ladies and gentlemen, ask you how one investment fund, and recently Statopulos Nikos was here, a representative of the "BC Partners", an investment fund that bought a company from the KKR, from David Petrous by 2.6 billion euros. Imagine when someone pays 2.6 billion euros, a loss-making company, and the SBB has been showing for years that it is making losses in Serbia. The one who bought it probably knows where the money is poured out, probably knows where the drain pipe is through which the money from Serbia's SBB subscriber's subscription comes out, and that in Serbia, they avoid all obligations, they don't pay taxes, REM fees, RATL, they have fake cross-border TV, they have fake companies, they have losses, and now I ask how one investment fund pays Jugoslav Ćosic 4,000 euros, when he with the company "Adria News" d.o.o. which, by the way, is not the founder of N1 television, but is how the founder of "Adria News" and Luxembourg behaves... So how does someone who makes 7.5m euros in losses have a salary of 4,000 euros? How does the "BC Partners" pay Yugoslavia Cosic 4,000 euros, because it is now a roof company, right, that's the one who bought the entire "United Group", how he tolerates in that system a company that he makes, which has one anti-government television, which doesn't bother me, bothers me that it's not registered in Serbia, but is false, cross-border, over which money spills out? How do they pay 4,000 euros to Yugoslavia's Cosic if his firm loses 7.5m euros? Here, if I were the owner of the "BC Partners", I'd wonder how I pay a man 4,000 euros, and he's making me lose 7.5m euros. He's probably on such a high salary, and he's still in a private company with interests from that United Group, United Media, 12,000 euros a month, as they claim well-advised, how do I pay with such large money for men who are making losses in my system? Well, by allowing me to pour money out of Serbia somewhere in Luxembourg, I'm taking that money and, say, N1 television can't be sued. Not registered in Serbia, not a media service provider. If you sue her, their lawyer will say they are not registered in the APR, not registered with REM as a media service provider, a media service provider, and they avoid any kind of responsibility for the information they provide. In doing so, they do not have to pay REM and RATEL compensation, which other TVs pay and up to a million euros, these central large televisions. So, they pay the RATEL fee, they pay REM, they pay SOKOJ. These N1 TV obligations, sports clubs, 13 sports clubs, Nova S pay nothing in the state of Serbia. They don't even pay advertising taxes because they're subcontracting via CAS Media, which is also owned by a United Group, which is now called the "BC Partners", which was bought by former CIA chief, whose adviser is the former ambassador. That's Clinton's ambassador, Cameron Monter, so it's very anti-Serb. The whole system is built on telecommunications. Soroš didn't enter the farm. David Petreus didn't enter the farm. Neither did the "BC Partners" enter the farm immediately. They entered telecommunications, where they made fast money, but it was small, so they made such a system, according to me against the law, by means of which they pump money, without any obligation in Serbia. In Serbia, they pay nothing, and then Solak shows up from Switzerland and says, "I'm a taxpayer in Switzerland." Now I ask Solak and Gilas if they have earned these millions in Switzerland or Serbia, robbing the poor SBB subscribers, whom I recommend they move to Telecom. When the unfortunate Theodoreovic can recommend that they check out... Look out, he's getting paid out of the state budget? Telekom pays extra income to the state budget. The SBB is making minuses, pumping money out of here, thus stealing the budget of the Republic of Serbia and Dusan Teodorovic, this fugitive, during the war in America, advises subscribers to check out and avoid the possibility of the money ending in the Republic of Serbia's budget, to check out with the "Telecom" that makes a profit, to pay him into the budget, to check out and to move on to the SBB, which makes the minuses here, and thus damages the Republic of Serbia's budget. By the way, Dusan Teodorovic receives a fat salary from the budget. So, it's like if we peasants wanted to milk a cow without feeding it. So, it's like if we peasants wanted to milk a cow without feeding it. You could do that for four days, and after four days, you'd die. Now, that is recommended by the great academic Dusan Todorovic. When he can recommend it, I control my dear viewers. You who can avoid SBB and Total, try to apply to MTS, Telekom, etc., cable networks and thus help your country, because you are filling the Telekom budget of the Republic of Serbia and helping sports and culture, because Telekom is the largest sponsor of sports and culture, representations, their activities, athletes, etc. in the state of Serbia, which the SBB and all these boulebras of various spies, CIA chiefs, father gods, military commanders and various other white-world secises are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62260	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Now he has the word according to the amendment, Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62261	I would like to thank, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the Honorable People's MPs. The Investment Funds Act is a very important step in strengthening Serbia's economy, its diversity and the creation of new business opportunities, both for domestic and foreign investors. The main objectives of adopting this law are to provide conditions for attracting more market participants, as well as to provide greater security to investors. With new forms and structures, the organisation of these funds is expected to increase the security of domestic and foreign investors. The key is the development of the capital market and the development of the investment fund industry. Enabling the work and encouraging the work of investment funds would create new opportunities for additional funds to be invested in our economy, thus creating new jobs. All of this is in the economic interest that Serbia will grow and grow and have higher growth rates. The goal is to create a better business environment, encourage the development of domestic economy and attract potential foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62262	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Alternative Investment Funds Act. You have received amendments, submitted by MPs on the bill: Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Dubravko Bojić, Zoran Despotović, Petar Jojić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Nemanja Sarović, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savic, Aleksandra Belačić and Marijan Risticevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the bill, in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62263	The same is contained in the amendment to Article 1 and to this previous law because we essentially have the same objection to this first position, only a different argument of the Government why it does not accept. He says we're not changing the essence of the proposed member by this amendment. We're changing right now because you wrote here in the bill, you're talking about conditions for the establishment and management of alternative investment funds. We think it must stand there – conditions for establishment, business and management. But, well, if that doesn't change your point. The point is something else. The bottom line is that what is now the People's MPs of power will not happen unfortunately. We'd be really happy to, but that story about these funds being poured into agriculture, that our companies will be allocated some funds from funds, etc., it's just fairy tales. I'll show you on one case, I hope I get to the end in two minutes. I remind you of the year 2015. A memorandum of understanding between Serbia and Tenis was then signed. Then he was supposed to be provided with 24,000 ha of land to come and develop our agriculture. So listen – on June 22, 2016, Vucic says – the contract with Tennessee is preparing for June, we got the final news about Tenis that he wants to invest and want to work in our country for a long time to stay here and recover the fallen Serbian agriculture, February 22, 2016. On April 29th, 2017, Minister Nedimovic said -- whether to do business in Serbia will be known by 29 April 2017. And nothing's been found out yet. In fact, it's clear he won't. And this isn't sorry for Teniz. It can be invested in our agriculture, our peasants, our landowners, and from 2.8 million to 4 million pigs, as Teniz promised. We're just saying, we're illustrating that Serbia is not really respected the way you boast and everything looks like what one colleague just said, the course of the dinar is constantly changing, but it's stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62264	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62265	Here, let's touch it a little, Minister, which is now the successes of individual funds in Serbia, so that we don't disrespect everyone's work or the drive to improve the situation in the Serbian economy. Namely, the management of My Brands company, I will not mention the names of these people, has shown that through the establishment of my investment fund under the applicable law, if they are working to improve production, as they like to say branding, I would rather say promotion of these products such as the Bambi industry, Knjiz Miloš and others who have managed to lift them from the ashes and sell them for huge millions of amounts, they did not need to have these laws. I believe that in Serbia there are more such people and capable economists or those who recognize that segment in the economy needs to be strengthened through first investment, and that state should offer a certain amount of funds, much greater than these foreign investors or much greater than they gave hand and hat. You remember that Maria Rushete, right? That was Verice, who was there for the development of herding in the area where her father-in-law took from the Development Fund at the time, I think there were almost 10 million dinars. You know who it is, like he's buying here, when there's a discotheque, some brothel, some nightclub, that's something terrible. So, if there are such people, these two have shown from this company that they know and know, and I believe others, give the ministers a focus on it, not waiting for individual European investment funds, because you allow them this law and before Serbia, and they will never enter the EU, that they change and their fund's headquarters and play in a variety of ways, but this is how you think about what kind of business activities the government of Serbia is about to launch, and not by bringing these companies from abroad, from EU countries, to which you give these kinds of subsidies. Here, you really are an expert on economic issues. The fact that these came is neither "Brunfield" nor "Grinfield" investment, in the right sense of the word, because they do not know it except to give local infrastructure and to release all these taxis, giving these subsidies to each job. Why didn't you? We had, as these economists would say, a pilot project in Stari Pazova, when the president of the municipality was our Serbian radical, Srdjo Komazec, he brought in many foreign companies and we kept talking and talking about it, when you didn't even know what it was, but without asking that the state grant 10,000 euros for each job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62266	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far in Serbia there was no law on alternative investment and investment funds, only the Open Investment Funds Act. The difference is that alternative investment funds have clearly defined what securities of value can be invested in, while investment funds have a wide range of investments. The greatest importance of this draft is certainly reflected in the fact that domestic capital, private capital of natural persons, will be able to mobilise into the Venture capital of funds and investments. It is true that they are uncertain and invaluable immediately, but only the results of these funds are visible in a few years. This kind of investment is very risky, but if companies that operate on a healthy basis are found, then investments and payments are made. Such funds were used by our great Nikola Tesla back in the 19th century. The idea is not bad, if it comes to life, so with these funds, Serbia should solve accumulated problems in the economy, economy, agriculture and environmental protection, and so return, say, trust, both investors and users of these funds. I hope that this new draft law on alternative investment funds will give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to borrow more from banks than ever before, as in Serbia, only one fifth of small and medium-sized enterprises could be in debt to business banks due to rigorous demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62268	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. For his word, he answered the amendment, Žarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62269	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to underline that it is of great importance to maintain financial and economic stability. I'd say that's decisive. In the previous period, the consequences were affected. The causes we won and removed from power in 2012, never to return. They were treated, so to speak, balances and states and banks and now it's time to act and prevent it, to pre-warn any crisis and be ready once for everything that awaits us, our state and our financial and banking system, in the future. The hunger for taking risks in the banking sector is mostly a positive thing, as funds are placed on the economy and the population. But we've decided on a security system. The deposits of citizens and businesses are first. Stability is a major step forward in creating a business environment, which has also been recognised by major international institutions and agencies, IMF, Fitch Ratings, will be preserved and improved by the laws we have been discussing in recent days. If the bank wants to do a risky business, it has to pay for it. And that's the essence of these laws. Payment of the premium further ensures protection of citizens' deposits and businesses in the most just way. The higher premium is paid by the one who has a higher risk of business. In this way, the deposit insurance system, as well as other laws, is now significantly improved financial stability, further harmonising with the best standards in international practice, as well as EU legal assets. Now to return to my fellow citizens I represent in this home. These laws will further affect the improvement of the business environment and in my city, there will be more investment and jobs, with great potential for growth in the coming period. We are aware that citizens recognize it and we know it because of the growing support of SNS and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62270	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Marian Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62271	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the church is separate from the state. But many of us, the vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are not separated from the church. In this regard, I would like to congratulate the President of the Republic of Serbia on the Order of the Holy Sava, and I think that this award is not only to the President of the Republic of Serbia, but to all citizens who believe in his work and efforts. Svetosavsky is, and if you disagree, to admit that someone deserved it, not to complain too much, but, my God, it is consecrating and forgiving to those who disagree with the fact that a man who has done a lot for the Church as president of the Republic of Serbia has been given the same church of distinction, and probably the church appreciated its contribution to the preservation of the state. There are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without a state. The state is the assumption of democracy and we wouldn't be representatives here if it disappeared. I believe that the church also appreciated the efforts that our country and our people have made to survive, not only in this country, but in the countries in the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I've made a bit of a mistake about Gilas. As much as he has sinned against the people and the state and city register, I can do a little about him. I didn't know, but I was informed that he had become a little bit of my fellow farmer. He says, when he made 619m euros in hard work and sweat, he spent a piece of money and bought a company called "The Young One" in Sikolama and that it has 25 hectares of land. I believe he can't really hit the field, but, my God, he bought his share in agriculture. It reminds me a little of Zivkovic, but, well, apart from Zivkovic, I have another fellow farmer among politicians who, of 619m euros, has broken something a little bit off and that's gone, I think it's the Municipality of Negotin, in Sikole, for a cooperative or something called "The Young One". It's probably Gilas by work. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of Gilas and Solak, I have to explain to Gilas why the citizens won't. If you have made 619m euros, and you are of modest origin, you have not inherited a gold mine, a diamond mine, you have not found oil in the Drvar, etc., a modest property origin, although you have reached 619m euros, it has grown to you, or it has grown ambition not to be equal to the voters, but to be the boss of its voters. And voters don't like to have a boss in democracy. They like to be able to participate in decision-making or influence decision-making. Democracy loves equality, and it has the ambition to be very uneven, to have 619m euros. The voters don't appreciate it, because they believe that money comes from their pockets. And of course that inequality between the leader and the voters, he thinks he should be the owner, and those subjects, they can't score. And that's why all these parties around him can't cross 11%. Just to remind you that DS, who destroyed itself, always had an electoral body of about twenty percent, sometimes more, but never much less. But the DS supported all the movements that appeared, "Yellow Duck", DS, Balša and the team, they all run, support "Yellow Duck", "Yellow Duck" takes its part, then the sinful Jankovic comes, they all support Jankovic, then everyone supports Bastac. Each of them takes their share. Then Gilas shows up, they give up their electoral body to Gilas. Now that they've lost the electoral body, they'd be boycotting the election. I guess they assume that we should now order all voters to read "Today" to read "Blic", to read "Times", to read "Nin", to read "The Weekly," to watch "New S", to watch "New S", to watch the N1 television, as far as I've listed it, so, to support these editors in RTS, and none of them have been replaced, they're all from yellow times. I guess we should order that they have to watch Olja Bećkovic, I guess we have to order the kid, what's his name, Ivan Ivanovic. So, I guess we should order the voters to watch first. I guess Gilas also believes that we should now order voters, not only to watch, listen to academic Teodorovic, etc., and sanctity, and there other Serbia, Bećkovićka, Dad and daughter, all of them must listen together and watch. In the end, we should order voters to read those traffic signs while they're driving in traffic, while they're in traffic. I guess we should order, in the end, that they vote for a party that's lost its voters. Mr. Gilas, you take your 619m euros, under the terms of your allegations, give that money back to those to whom it belongs, return it to those you robbed, and perhaps you get some impression of the electoral body, because democracy implies some equality, elemental equality between the leader and the voters, and you, Mr. Gilas, have lost along with Solak. You're defending your school business. You are not defending democracy, you are not defending human rights, you are not defending the right of the Serbian state to exist, you are defending only your own pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62272	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62273	Thank you, Chairman. What the SRS resents for the representatives of the authorities during the debate in this Proposal for a law on alternative investment funds is that the law is adopted because of the need to bring our legislation in line with European legislation. We have submitted this amendment to Article 3 and suggested that point 4 be deleted in its position. Article 3 refers to exceptions from the application of this law and points 4 are listed national institutions, such as: the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the European Development Financial Institutions and bilateral development banks, the World Bank, the IMF and other national institutions and similar international organisations. We do not believe that this should be introduced into the text of the law to be applied in the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that part of the justification for the adoption of this law, written by the Proposer in the framework of the accession process of the Republic of Serbia and the negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia for Chapters 9 - Financial Services of the Republic of Serbia, inter alia, assumes the obligation to transpose, by the end of the third quarter of 2021, Directive 2011/61 of the EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 8 June 2011, with regard to the management of alternative investment funds in the national legal frameworks of the Republic of Serbia by adopting a special law governing alternative investment funds. Article 266 The bill lists members of the laws to be applied from the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. We of the SRS parliamentary group have so far advised representatives of the government in the Republic of Serbia that the laws adopted by the National Assembly must be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the interests of Serbian citizens must be protected through respect for the laws adopted in the National Assembly, not because there is a need to comply with other people's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62274	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62275	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here several times that by adopting this law, or by passing this law, it will be possible to invest money more effectively by banks in small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. in the economy. I think that it should finally come out of such delusions that exist and from this mantra which is reflected in the fact that European banks or any bank in Serbia will invest more money in the economy than they invest in something that is in any case beneficial to banks, but it is not so good for Serbia itself and for the development of its economy, which is that more and more business and other banks are dealing with the purchase of paper than the value of the state of Serbia, which is placed on the market, and the banks are more interested in buying such shares, that is, those securities, than they are investing in something which is great uncertainty and great uncertainty. Why is there great uncertainty? They know better about the economic situation in which Serbia is located than it presents itself, presented to us by representatives of the government. They know that this is a thorny area, that in this area it's not worth investing in in the long term, it's better to buy paper than value. There is a state guarantee behind the securities, its property stands, and, in the end, it is much better and more favourable interest being realised through the purchase of securities from value, than it is in some regular procedures, when, for example, it is invested in the economy, and it is waiting for that product to be placed, so it is waiting for dividends to come to profit, and then it is divided. There is, in the end, not only a minor benefit, financial, but quite, quite uncertain. For us, the problem is essential that the state is funding the good part of this value paper emissions. You see, look in the review, in the final accounts, look at the proposals for the budget, you'll see that these are billions in fact realised by broadcasting and selling securities of value to Serbia. We have to break up with that practice. As far as these laws are concerned, they will not improve Serbia, bringing improvement to those who place their capital on a safer market, i.e. buying securities of value.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62276	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62277	We through this amendment can unite this whole story in three sentences. We said who was the author of these proposals. We said that this is also one of the laws that you are making for the EU, and in such a crafty way that it is really unacceptable for something like this to remain in our legal system. In this 2nd position of Article 13, you said – the total value of assets under management is determined in accordance with EU rules, which, in relation to alternative investment funds, regulate exceptions, general operating conditions, depositaries, etc. We said this should be changed and should stand – the total value of the assets under management is determined in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Are my people more normal in the Republic of Serbia than in applying the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Now watch why the government won't accept this, as well as the majority of the congregation. The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the amendment of the provision in question would deviate from the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in Article 91. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which wrapped us in the price, would continue to wrap, or would deviate from compliance with Directive 2011/61 of the EU. How much more do you buy all these directives? Whoever thinks of conducting something to you, to order something, you accept it. At least formally write that the laws of the Republic of Serbia will apply. A lot more warrants from the west. Now, gentlemen, hurry up and get a bow at McCallister's. He's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62278	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what was the basis of every government from October 5th to today, the path of Eurointegration, as much as we can view it today as pointless, as something impossible, which is never going to happen, all of which we could see in Serbia, and the ministers all said that there would be nothing without the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, without the SAA, pre-accession funds and other lies and nonsense that we had the opportunity to see, it all brought us into this situation where today and seriously limited our opportunities above all when it comes to co-operation with some other countries, with some other more successful economies, which we can attract here and their investments, and that it all happens without any political pressure, without any conditions, first of all, when it comes to all issues, which is the territorial integrity of Serbia and the question of Kosovo and Metohia. This is how we are always threatened that nothing will come from investment, that our salaries will fall again, that unemployment will grow if we give up Eurointegration because we have brought ourselves into this position that we are too dependent on the EU and foreign investors who come here to Serbia mainly from the West and get everything on the line with us. If there really is a difference between SNS and DS, and I say that there is no and there is an obvious continuity in this matter, I guess someone should do something to change such a situation, and not to do everything, as far as this law and every other law is concerned, except that it is in accordance with European directives, with foreign dictatorships, which are later presented as the great successes of our economy, and that with reality has no connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62280	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Can I get you an amendment or a replica? By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62281	By amendment. I want you to take my time off from an authorised representative. As the tide has often been under way lately, how foreign investors are not good, how foreign investors have some special subsidies compared to domestic investors, here are a few words on the subject. I would really like, as a MP, to see a sublegal act, regulation or law that provides for foreign investors to have some subsidies and benefits from domestic investors. Whether investors are foreign or domestic is irrelevant. They certainly are good for our economy. Otherwise, foreign investors operate under the applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia. So German investors do not operate in the Republic of Serbia under German laws, nor do Austrian investors operate with us under Austrian laws, but under the applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia. So all investors, both domestic and foreign, register in the APR, pay taxes and contribute to profits, settle their obligations to the Republic of Serbia. The capital can be domestic or foreign, but when investing in Serbia is subject to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The point is that in these companies, whether they are foreign or domestic, our employees who receive profits and wages in these companies work. On these earnings, the salaries are charged with taxes that are being poured into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and contributions that are being poured into our funds, the RFZO and the Republic Pension Insurance Fund. Workers receive salaries, and this affects the growth of personal consumption, and we all know that personal consumption and its growth are one of the factors of economic development. So personal consumption pushes economic activity in every country, and of course in ours. Do we need to give up 25,000 jobs, how many Turkish companies employ, or should we give up 35,000 jobs, as many as there are in Slovenian companies, or over 60,000 jobs, as employed in German companies? Of course, we do not need to give up these jobs, nor do workers need to give up their earnings, nor do the state need to give up its income on the basis of the income tax, nor do the Republic's income funds on the basis of income contributions. So, for every economy, there are equally good sides and domestic investors, and I repeat once again that there is no law, nor a sublegal act that provides for foreign investors to have greater benefits than domestic investors. It is certainly good that the unemployment rate in Serbia at this point was 10.3%, and let's remember in 2012 it was 27%. So everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing has the full support of the President and everything the government is doing and all the members of the government are doing well for us citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62282	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. Comrade Seselj, do you want to propose an amendment to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62283	First of all, there is such an atmosphere and everything is moderate to the fact that foreign investors are better, nicer, smarter, more successful, and what is not more than domestic ones, and the light is an example where the Republic of Serbia can draw out a really bad experience and show that this is not really true. First of all, there is obvious discrimination when subsidies arise. The money the foreigners receive from us from the Serbian government can't get any domestic businessmen and that's reality, and whether it's in the sublegal act or not, it's on the ground. What happened, for example, to a German investor called Tennessee for the processing of pork? He got all advances and land and money and everything and it was already over that "Tenis" is now in "Mitros", so is the new factory that promotes our economy, one of the world's largest producers, etc. What was the outcome of all this? Where's "Tenis"? When could a slaughterhouse, a domestic businessman get what he got "Tenis"? They'll never even get it. That's because it's politics. Realising that a stranger is better than a domestic businessman is wrong and no country exists in Europe or the world. Look at South America. These are countries that have far more inhabitants than Serbia and are much larger. What country has developed on foreign investment, first of all, and the IMF? It's not one. It never is. She just got out of it even worse and poorer because they're looking at their own interests here, and their interest is cheap labour and that they can collect all the money that's at their disposal and that's given to them on the plate. That's what all foreign investors are interested in, and nobody says foreign investments are bad. Of course, all investments are good. When the Serbian government does not finance from and to the business of that investor in Serbia, the question arises – why can't the Serbian government itself invest that much money to deal with this business? What do we need a stranger for?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62284	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The right to a replica has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62285	I repeat once again that there is no law that provides that foreign investors have more subsidies than domestic investors. If there is, I'd like it to be shown to us. When it comes to both foreign and domestic investors, it is important that our economy is growing and that all macroeconomic indicators are better than they were seven years ago. That's the most important thing. When it comes to economic growth, let us remember that in 2018 we achieved an economic growth of 4.2% of GDP, then for the first eight months 4.4% and when it comes to the unemployment rate and when it comes to domestic currency stability and when it comes to inflation, it is at a record level of 2.2% and up to 11.12% up to seven years ago. So all macroeconomic indicators are saying that we've made a improvement in every way. So, whether domestic or foreign investors, that's good for citizens, good for our economy, but we must not forget the fact that by 2012, only 1,500 construction sites were active, today more than 40,000 construction sites are active in Serbia. Recently in the Assembly, we adopted a Law on building apartments for members of security forces, and this law stipulates that our domestic legal entities are engaged in the construction of the same apartments. Therefore, government members are equally concerned that all our employers, i.e. economic operators, are involved in the realisation of infrastructure projects, which is also the objective and business of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62286	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62287	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. First of all, as far as economic growth is concerned, I think it is clear to everyone that if there is a 4% growth, it cannot continue to compare with the most developed European countries, because if Serbia grows by 4% and Germany, for example. By 1%, even those German 1% are ten times higher in absolute amounts than it is in Serbian 4%. It's also imaginary and no absolute influence on that ordinary citizen. As for Serbian firms and discrimination, do we have a better question than the Bechtel issue? So, the American company, which was all set up to get the job of building the Moravia Corridor, is after hiring some Turkish subcontractors. What can a Serbian firm do? Absolutely nothing. But that's why the Serbian government can give 300m euros more than was planned to build the same highway that the Chinese would make. The Chinese were good for Milos the Great, that was fine. They were more quality then and all right, but the Chinese are no good for the Moravia Corridor. How's that? Is there one difference between an affair headed by Zorana Mihajlovic 300m euros more for Bechtel and all the robbery privatisations since 5 October? There's absolutely no difference. Money is stolen, foreigners win without a tender, do whatever they want. We had a case in Croatia, Split-Karlovac highway. Bechtel was also given a job in Serbia, so it was then in Croatia. That is why the government fell, the economy minister resigned because of the affair, because it is the matrix by which Bechtel operates. Political pressure, to see how much money we can get out, doesn't matter what's worth much less, but the American ambassador comes to the Ministry of Transport and Construction – Bechtel got a job. That's it. That's the discrimination we're talking about. It is the influence of foreign investors and there is really no difference between DS and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62288	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law on alternative investment funds. The essence of this law is, this is a new law, to form a society that will manage these funds and all the things that are related to them. It doesn't have to be bad in itself. These are things that need to be placed under one wing, under one roof, to be systematicized and found in one place. However, there is no guarantee that something like this will produce results. We know from experience that many of these and similar laws have been inapplicable or have produced some minimal results, in some cases they have produced more damage than they have benefited. We've already considered one of the laws before this law. If the government is already going into one of these projects, it should consider that in those things where Serbia has the performance that it can deal with the strongest or the strongest in the world and in Europe, and of course it is the IT sector, where our young people have proved to be very successful. Here, yesterday I heard some information, I don't know exactly on which media, according to rankings in the world, that Serbs are in fifth place for recognition and success in the IT sector. So if there is something like this that needs to or must exist, then it certainly should focus on one such area that is of great importance to both Serbia and all those actors in information technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62290	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62291	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is October 9th. That day, one life began. It's my father's life, and despite 85 years, tomorrow he's going to go to 86, working something around the estate, and the villagers are always working until death, despite the modest pensions, his pension is 11,000 dinars. He, like all other peasants, cares about the state the most in spite of his late years. It's as state-owned as anyone who lives far worse than the circle of the Tramway Two and protects the state at all costs, while those in the circle of the Tram Two are looking to crash at all costs. They look like something else to me, a colleague of Martinovic. So today is October 9th, the day one life began, but also the day one life disappeared. In Marseille, King Alexander was killed with the Ustasha-Bulgarian hand, the Ustasha-Bulgarian team. I guess he was thanked by Bulgarians from the country of Macedonia, as it was, by the government-Georgian-Earth government, I guess the Ustashas and Bulgarians thanked him for putting them in the defeated part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia as winners, and for having been united with those who were defeated in the war, and for that reason a minor war reparations has been granted due to such a type of unification. That's the Ustasha-Bulgarian gratitude. We have to learn lessons. Today, Bulgaria's large Bulgarian aspirations have a party called Ataka, which invests hate in Serbia. With the Atak in warm relations, but very warm relations are Bosko Ljotic-yeltic, the right hand of Dragan Dilas. It's the one that rapes traffic signs, which jumps into Serbia's Radio-Television, which unpunishes the National Assembly, which brings stones, pulls microphones, etc. It's the one that's making a mess in the country. I guess he wants to get out of this mess in some impossible anarchy for today, but he doesn't know it's impossible, I guess he wants to achieve some anarchy from which that Bulgarian Ataka would realise the Bulgarian goals. Our citizens have the right to know this, that Bosko Ljotic, advocates the organization that killed King Alexander, who was so much a man of forgiveness that he let the defeated unite with the winners, thereby sacrificing his kingdom and his grandfather's kingdom, and the statehood of Serbia and also the statehood of Montenegro. Until then he went to give up his grandfather to create a country where they were, a country of winners and defeated. That's where he went, and they killed him out of gratitude. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever, especially the British, invested hate in divisions in Serbia. The people of Serbia, Serbs and all others should know when two fish are fighting in the ocean behind the nearby British rock, MI-6. So despite the investments in our inequality, in possible divisions and conflicts, through Bosko Ljotic, yellow Gilas, our people need to know that we need to resort to investment in the economy. A state without economy, a car without motors and gearboxes, a state without investment is a state without fuel in that car. A car like that can only go downhill. We want to go to the top. Our people should also know how to learn, these Bulgarian-Ustava, Ustasha crime in Marseille, learn lessons from the Sarajevo assassination of Vidovdan, and learn lessons from March 27th, that we have fought a lot for others, it is time to invest and live for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62292	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment is Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62293	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Solak and Gilas have invested in RTS. It's common knowledge. Let's remember "48 hours of wedding," right, Mr. Martinovic, right? Those shows on RTS went 208. Remember, 208 shows went to RTS behind Dragan Gilas. Whether it was "Emousen", "Multicom" or "Darekt Media", it's mostly his companies. I've recently received a response from the yellow Buicket, who censors me, my dear Buicke, feel free to censor me, I'm used to it, so you censor my statements about harvest remains. But, my dear Buke, your journalists, your editors, your regular editors, not those tuxedo, not the yellow ones, with the tonics, so those regulars who work for some church girl, they do it cheaply because you pump money up with Solak and Gilas. My dear brooks, feel free to censor me. My dear Bujosevic, because you sent me an answer to the question – did you make deals with the Darekt Media and what kind of business are these? You sent me an answer – yes, I did, the Direkt Media, Gilasov, yes, but the content of the contract is a business secret. Imagine when the Public Service, the property of all citizens who are supported by the subscription and still being touched from the budget with one four billion dinars, as I recall, imagine when the MPs who need to control it, our dear Buke, replied that it was a business secret, his relationship with Gilas. Despite that business secret, you can tell me again about the harvest leftovers, you don't want to let people off the farm, it's okay, but when you sit down, my dear yellow buke, when you sit down for breakfast, eat lunch, that you know that I may have contributed to your plate and that father of 85 years, because you might be left without food if it wasn't for us, but feel free to censor me, because the peasants, right, and from the farm you won't let go, and now you're bound for direct transmission to let them go. You can't exactly cover my tone, so I'm using my dear yellow Buke this opportunity to talk to you about the business that Gilas had with you, and earlier, "48 weddings." Well, let's say my dear yellow Buicke, or Mr. Bujosevic, to answer me, how did you hire the wife of the director or editor of BETA, that she made deals with Gilas after we saw this media coalition, BETA, Today, N1, and so on. How come she makes deals, how much of that information do you use, how much money do you send BETA and so on? There are a lot of these questions, but mostly that your secret job with Gilas is so hard to swallow. That's how you damage these cameras that are here with us, damage the ones that work in the installation, damage these people who are on duty in front of RTS. That older gentleman of mine, who is being pushed there by Gilas and Bosko Obradovic, you've damaged him, too, because his salary is lower, because you're pumping money like our peasants say, as they say about Gilas and the process, you're oiling a fat geese tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62294	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62295	I've already said democracy doesn't like equality, property politicians probably have more than ordinary citizens, but where inequality is expressed between party members and leaders, there can be no progress. Here, take Gilas for example, take Bosic, as soon as he got the pair, abandoned by party friends, party members, party officials, all who saw that inequality suddenly grew. Imagine the inequality between Gilas and the members, say DS, there are some congratulatory MPs who want to go to the elections, but Gilas says - you can't go to the election, because in the meantime he became party owner. So he's got a few parties. He owns some Green Party, which he requalified, changed his name. Then he owns the DS because they entered debt slavery, he owns left Serbia, whether it's a party or an NGO, that Saint Petar would know, it's Borko Stefanovic, whose wife is an editor in RTS, and they don't like RTS. Let me tell you, this RTS business has always gone yellow, but here's Lutovac today, look, I wasn't on RTS, I believe a fellow from the Assembly who didn't like Mr. Bujosevic for several years. Here, I've never been on any of the RTS news shows before. In my entire career, I was once on a show that was being filmed just in case. That show is usually shown live, but when I was that show was slightly censored because it was first recorded, like, let's play some Risticevic, but don't go straight, let it go in the video, so we can perform surgical interventions and rewrite what we have to do. So Lutovac was last night, I guess he forgot to say something, and there he is today at RTS strike because his students painted RTS in pink, not yellow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62296	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62297	I need to talk about my fellow farmer, Gilas, they're farmers on the run. You have a farmer trying, according to our counterpart Atlagic, who is on the run, Mr. Zivkovic, whom the state helped raise, and everyone says has damaged the state by 525 thousand euros. Not for 525 thousand euros, Mr. Minister, but a little over a million, because the land on which the vine was planted was supposed to be the subject of restitution. It is the property of the Jaksic family, the 52 hectares we must pay under the law, 500 000 euros. A vineyard was planted on that land, so Zivkovic sold his company to Kolet, and sold the vineyard. This also left the land for 30, 40 years and now the Jaksic family must receive a 500,000-euro financial compensation. So the former, my not-contested farmer colleague, in a bid, Mr. Zivkovic, cost us over a million euros, not just 525 thousand euros. Now, I've got another colleague of the farmer, from the Youth from Sikol, Mr. Gilas, who says he brought his fortune somewhere from a gold mine, from the Czech Republic, the Drava, etc., and his company's revenues went like this. Well, for example, in 2004 to 2007, the head of the National Office was a business income of 179m and 12,000 euros. The next part when he was mayor from 2008 to 2012, the revenue was in euro 332 million and 133 thousand, only from the "Darrekt Media" and from 2013 to 2014, when he ended the mayor's term, income was 106 million and 488 000 667. The total income of Gilas's company, my fellow farmer, is 619 million 688 thousand 269 euros. How he thinks he is a democratic leader, with such inequality between him as the leader of politicians who is a farmer and poor peasants, whose incomes are not 619 million, who barely earn only 619 euros, and not 619 million. It's a huge difference, Mr. Gilas, for you to be influential in that electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62298	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. No, thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 91st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 102. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 115. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62299	How many people love injustice, it's a miracle. People also like the investments that are real, not suspicious, that bring new jobs, new technologies, which make a profit. They don't hire company owners because they love them, they hire them to make a profit. But workers and trade unions need to do everything possible to balance capital and labour, to redistribute more and more money to farmers and workers, that is, to the benefit of the work. I appreciate what the government is trying to do and what it's trying to do with a five thousand-dollar grant to pensioners, it's doing a little more to those with the lowest pensions. The one with the lowest pension of 11,000 dinars, when he gets 5,000 dinars, it's half a pension, and the one with a pension of 100,000 is 5% of his pension. I think we should always help the weaker, the lower-income ones, and my God, investments should be in favour of economic development, and these trade unions, even the lack of labour, will make it possible for more and more money to be deployed in favour of workers. I'm obliged to talk about inequality even more. How many of our people and when they're in vulnerable areas, they appreciate this inequality, how much they don't love it. The list of Freedom of Dragan Djilas, Leposavic - 23 votes, the Serb list - 6.777, Mitrovica 55 votes, the Serb list - 7.118, Zubin Potok Srpski list - 4.142, he 17 votes, Gilas. It is Rada Trajkovic, Rasic and Djilas, the Kurti team, who thanks Kurti for his release in 2001, for releasing him, despite a 15-year prison sentence. Zvečan - 4.150 to 18, Obilić 1.127, Gilas zero, I mean Gilas zero votes, this zero figuratively. Serbia - 109, Gilas - two, must have voted for it by two Albanians. So, Vucitrn - 1,068 per three, I believe three Albanians voted for Gilas, Kosovo field 321 per one, so one Albanian at the polling post changed his mind, so he didn't want to vote for Gilas, Gracanica "Serbian List" - 7,885, Freedom 168, there must have been more Albanians who decided to support them, Strpce - 5.122, Gilasova 26, well, then Orahovac - 0, Gilas Vitina - 0, Klokot - 0, Gnjilane - 2, Novo Brdo - 0, Osojane - 1, Gorazdevac - 1, Klina - 4. There, the Albanians will no longer vote for Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62300	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 157 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 180 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 243 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62301	As with all laws, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs we bring in because of the EU accession policy, so we are not considering the impact it has on ordinary citizens of Serbia and in this context we do not view the EU's behaviour towards Serbia at all. First of all, as you know for more than a year, Pristina has introduced fees on goods from central Serbia and BiH, the so-called Republic of Kosovo. What has the EU done in a year? Has the EU ever considered the situation of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, do they have medicines, do they have food, are all their intentions available, etc? Did you see anyone answer? Did you see any of the Cypriots from Kosovo suffer any consequences? Has anyone been sanctioned? It's not. So nothing is meant by such and similar laws that the National Assembly would bring. It will not bring us closer to the EU, and look at how the EU treats Serbia and the Serbian people. So, the Serbian people living in Kosovo and Metohija absolutely do not care about anyone in the EU. Look at today's situation. So, under full military equipment, the ROSU terrorist formation wouldn't even allow the Red Star players to play a game in Kosovo Mitrovica, as if they were terrorists. Do you know what messages such activities create in the Serb community living in Kosovo and Metohija? How are they supposed to feel? What's the Kosovo and Metohija Office doing? What's Marco Djuric doing? Does he know anything other than to organize applause? So it goes so far that athletes must not enter Kosovo and Metohija and no one is interested in it. I guess that sport doesn't have a limit, does it? So that's the EU's relationship, that's Serbia's perspective. Serbian citizens are absolutely not focused, nor are their welfare in Brussels, and there is no reason to change that. These and similar laws won't get us anywhere. We'll still be in this mess. It's high time it stopped with that kind of practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-09-0.u62302	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, determines Thursday, October 10, 2019, starting at 11.15 p.m. as the Day for Voting on Points 4-9 of the Agenda of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you.
