ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55184	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 20nd special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that, in accordance with Article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a while ago Sulejman Ugljanin, otherwise a politician from Novi Pazar who is known for his anti-Serbian and anti-Serb statements and attitudes, said he is one of the Serbian rulers from the Middle Ages and founder of the Germanic dynasty, the great mayor Stefan Nemanja, a war criminal and is as such as Ratko Mladic. Is it possible for such statements to pass without any reaction from the authorities? To this end, the ruling majority, the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners, support Sulejman Ugljanin as the government in the Bosnian national council. Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia agrees with those views? I would remind you that, after holding elections for the Bosniak National Council, Sulejman Ugljanin said the state of Serbia is a fascist state. How, then, in such a fascist state, within its institutions, one Suleiman Ugljanin can be. Also, this government erects a monument to Stefan Nemanja at the site of an old railway station, i.e. In front of the old train station. Then are we raising a monument to a war criminal in the middle of Belgrade? From this, the competent authorities must clearly fence and take all measures against the operation of Sulejman Ugljanin and his parties. The President of the Republic said yesterday that Sulejman Ugljanin, who speaks for Serbia that he is fascist, who openly calls for the secession of Sandzak and insults Serbian history and Serbian national identity with statements such as these, that this has nothing to do with what individual SNS coalition partners support him because what is the difference between him and the president of the Old City municipality that pulls fences and signs across the Republic Square? Ladies and gentlemen, if he has any grounds for a crime or some offence, so file charges or criminal or criminal charges against Mark Bastac, so let him answer for what he's doing in the Republic Square, if that's what he's up to. It cannot be the same to rip out signs and deny Serbia's territorial integrity, especially given that the president of the Republic spoke more than two hours yesterday about the protection of territorial integrity. Are there any priorities when these things are considered? I also refer to the foreign ministry's question – what is the reaction of the Serbian state to the fact that more than three weeks ago, a number of Serbs in Montenegro have been sentenced to a fictional act – an attempt of a coup, as well as a campaign run by the structures under the rule of Milo Djukanovic, which is aimed at destroying the Serbian identity in Montenegro as much as possible, that there should be someone afraid to say that the Serb, a SPC believer, is threatened by the confiscation of SPC property, should not anyone who pleads as a Serb be employed anywhere in the public sector, and the Republic of Serbia, its official authorities, be silent about that? Will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do something to protect the Serb national minority in Montenegro, or will we let the wind take them away and have a traitor, such as Milo Djukanovic, come to them?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55186	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here's a colleague of Radojevic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen and Madam People's MPs, on the basis of Article 204 of Article 5, I would like to ask the Parliament's question of the Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr Goran Trivan, or I would like to repeat the parliamentary question that my colleague, Ljupka Mihajlovska, had, as regards those information that comes to us, which is that a medical and other waste plant will be built in Pozarevec. Our parliamentary question is – is it true that a waste burner in Pogorevec will be built, and is it true that it will be done in other cities across Serbia? What exactly is planned and for what kind of waste? What measures will be taken to avoid pollution and protect human lives? Also, we're interested, does the minister own the text of the Memorandum and can he deliver it to us for insight? The second question concerns what is extremely important for our parliamentary group, and these are the announced amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Given that Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic announced that these changes and additions will be during this session of the Assembly, and since this regular session should be completed this week, I ask the question of Minister of Labour Zoran Djordjevic, when will the new amendment and addition of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children be submitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55188	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55189	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will ask certain questions related to the work of the people of eastern Serbia, and we have testified that a ten-day highway from Nis to northern Macedonia has been opened. We were at the opening, and it's really the most beautiful thing and it's very important for all of us who live in that part of Serbia. This issue is specifically "The Ways of Serbia" since our president, Mr. Vukic, said he would quickly enter the process and strengthen the maintenance of roads, reconstructing the path of state character from Zaječar, which is part of the Dobranica to Knjažvac. Otherwise, I have repeatedly said that this part of the road is very important to all of us who live in eastern Serbia, as well as to the railway that is now under construction and reconstruction. It is a vessel for the development of eastern Serbia, and we are witnessing that the road is in very poor condition. My question is: will it also begin to be the reconstruction of that part of the route of the state character from Zaječar, which is part of the village of Vratnica, and all the way to Književec? I think it will be very soon, but I did ask that question because a lot of people who are going that part of the road heard that the road will be reconstructed, but they ask when will I be doing it on behalf of those citizens and ask, I ask the parliamentary question in "Serbian Ways". Another issue of "Serbian Ways" is their work round and it concerns the work of a regional road that goes from Svrlig to the Old Mountain. The path was done in the most modern way. The road is very frequent now. A large number of tourists are coming from all over Serbia, across Nis, so Svrljiga, goes to the Old Mountain to see the beauty of our region, but through only the inhabited place in Svrlig, where the road of state character, otherwise it is the street of Vase Alban, across the Pravača River there is one bridge which I can say, and we all know that and everyone who goes there is a narrow throat. My question of "Serbian Roads" – will the process of extending the bridge be closed during the coming months? Otherwise, I can tell you that there's been a series of car accidents in the part of that bridge because it's a really narrow throat. By building and expanding that bridge for all those going to the Old Mountains, going from the airport, Belgrade or any part of Serbia, and going through Svrlig, it will indeed be a relaxation for traffic. I think we need to do this as soon as possible because we're all putting emphasis on agricultural development, tourism development, because where agriculture is is tourism. Small municipalities such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, such as Književec, Babusnica, all these municipalities have a chance to develop and develop tourism, but now it is necessary to do these infrastructure things. I would also like to ask the authorities once again in "The Ways of Serbia" – will this part of the bridge located in the Srlig itself on the state road, the street of your Albanian, across the Straight River, will it be done very quickly, to expand and that people can go free, to reach Srlig, to the Old Mountain and to see the beauty of our end, because Serbia is the most beautiful thing in the world, what do we have? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55190	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55191	Dear Mr. Vice President, I ask the question – does the Serbian prosecutor's office have any elements of the crime in the media attacks against the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family? Respected Serbian citizens, respected MPs never in Serbia's recent history is a Serbian state president more brutally media attacked, and has had more support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia than our president, Aleksandar Vukic. These brutal media attacks on President Vukic, his family, his brother Andrej, his father, his mother with lies, bribery, inventions of every kind are the work of various criminal-political groups and individuals, whether domestic or foreign demonstrations. Their common goal is to weaken the role and importance of the president of the state. These media attacks have been particularly intense these days to weaken the negotiating position of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic in resolving the most important national issue of KIM. So these days, the leader of the Serbian Power Movement, Sergey Trifunovic, deeply shifted the borders of poverty, lied shamelessly that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic at the time of the RTS bombing by the criminal NATO alliance on April 23rd, in advance, knew about the attack and that he had pulled out, quote, "his mother Angelina, who was a journalist of the Public Service". It is true that the mother of the then Minister of Information, and today the president of the Republic of Alexander Vukic was in the RTS building that evening. Trifunovic was denied by the most concerned president's opponents. So Slavisa Lekic, recently president of the Serbian Journalist Association, says -- "People who were in RTS and others live claim Vucic's mother was in RTS. The wolf is a wolf, but the truth is the truth." Journalist Zeljko Pantelic, the other president's opponent, says: "You're right, Slavisa, I sat across from her that night." These days, the Honorable Vice President, the media and brutal attacks of lies, the fictions from hour to hour, are getting stronger and stronger from day to day. They spread false stories through various tabloid media and social media, especially about President Andrej's brother. So they created a false story that the brother of the president of the state, Andrej Vukic, tried to recalibrate a well-known Saturday guest named Lajosa Chakanja, and that he took a million euros from him and bought the famous restaurant "Bos". As alleged evidence, they mentioned Zvonko Bogdan, a prominent singer and musician. The bell of Bogdan is disgusted by such fiction. He publicly denied the whole story by calling it total nonsense. The opposition and their puppets, especially Bosko Obradovic, known for the nickname of the bully, lied on several occasions that Andrej Vukic took over the elite Belgrade restaurant "Franš" from longtime owner Nikola Dimitrijevic. Very quickly Dimitrijevic came forward and said it was a faceless lie. The restaurant owner showed documents showing that Andrej Vukic had nothing to do with the restaurant and so on. Dear Vice President, second question, is it true that I am asking the prosecutor's office that Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Gjiki Mafia, as mayor of Belgrade, robbed Telecom Serbia in 2011 by putting political pressure on then CEO Branko Radjuk to buy the four Gilas cable channels "Arena Sport" for 7.7m euros, although "Telecom Serbia", undermining, as a state-run firm under the law could not be the owner of the media? Dragan Gilas, before his entry into politics, was just plain naked, and today the tycoon with 700m euros is tycoon. Does the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia consider examining Gilas' controversial financial transactions and taking the necessary steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55192	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we will continue to work. I now set a five-minute break for the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter the Assembly Hall and so that we can continue our work. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55193	Dear MPs, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, ministers, agreed to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Director of the Office for Kosovo and the Methodology of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs, we continue the search of the First Point of the Agenda -- the Report on Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. President, did you ask for a word? I give my word to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55194	Dear National Assembly Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that, in line with the information provided to the domestic and international public, EU representatives, on 17 May this year, Albanian forces are preparing for the arrest of dozens of people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, under the pretext of fighting organised crime and corruption that this will bring dramatic anxiety, that they will bring enormous fear to members of the Serb people in northern Kosovo and Metohija. I'd like to inform you that just before six o'clock this morning, at five o'clock and 55 minutes, the FIT and NSO units are on their way. The NSO's recent units are ROSU, FIT are those other special units of theirs. So far, they have entered the territory of northern Kosovo and Metohija from 73 vehicles, mostly armored vehicles and other vehicles, and another 50 vehicles are waiting in southern Mitrovica and 15 other vehicles are waiting on the territory of the Serb municipality, of which eight vehicles have already been sent over the hills to Zubin Potok municipality. So far, we have confirmed the arrest of 23 people of Serbian nationality, Serbian and Bosniak nationalities in the territory of three municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, Zubin Potok, so on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The most important thing is the members of the Kosovo police force, just as we knew it 15 days ago when we alarmed the international public. I would like to inform you that there is still a very difficult situation in Zubi's stream where unarmed Serbs oppose members of Albanian extremist groups dressed in police uniforms. First of all, there was a conflict in the town of Varage, in the ravine. There were three barricades by Albanian specialists, and when I talk about it, I want you and all Serbian citizens to know that the Serbs had no weapons at their disposal, that we have evidence and footage showing that Albanians were shooting firearms at the head of Serbs who were protesting, who were shouting "wow" and trying to verbally oppose the violent behaviour of NJSO units, i.e. ROSU and FIT. At this point, it is literally during the beating of Serbs at a technical school in the Zubi stream, breaking into houses. When they break into the house and don't find whoever they want to arrest, we also have proof of it. They break everything in the house in the most arrogant way possible and prove how big, powerful, and powerful they are. So far, no dead. Of course, Albanians will say that the injuries they sustained with a stone were wounded. In Kosovo, Mitrovica, it happened that they also shot at people in one of the secondary streets because they were thrown at by young Serbian nationalities with stones. I also want to introduce you to what we've done since this morning and what it is we're going to do. I've warned the EU's representatives a little more than once. We made contact with them this morning, with the Brussels administration, with people who are intermediaries or as they like to say, the fassalators in the dialogue. So we introduced them to the situation and for who knows which time we told them that everything we agreed in Brussels was not about entering the north of those who had nothing to do with long pipes. They told us it was a police action against crime and corruption. Imagine a police action against crime and corruption led by Ramush Haradinaj, oxymoron. Of course, they will arrest five other Albanian national police officers to say that this is a clean fight against corruption and crime, in fact the whole purpose of this invasion into the north, as I was saying on the 17th, is to intimidate our people in the north of KIM and our people is more upset than ever in Zubin Potok and in Kosovo Mitrovica and in Leposavic. We spoke with representatives of our people. They're old wolves, they're people who learned to fight under impossible conditions and when they're naked against the teeth of armed people. For the first time I felt, I can't say, that dose of fear, but a dose of very high anxiety and a fear that such actions could continue. Today, before I introduce you to the content of the talks we have made, there is information and they are still unconfirmed, that a Russian citizen, Mikhail Krakschenkov, a UNMIK administration worker, has been beaten and detained, and we have also met the competent authorities of Russian state authorities. They beat him up, of course, and brought him in to most likely contact, if the information is reliable, with those who have granted them the whole action, of course, Albanian special forces. Why is this happening? For two years and a year and a half at the highest possible intensity, the worst possible attacks on the Serbian people, especially in northern Kosovo and Metohija, have been under way for an attempt at full criminalisation of our people, a year and a half of the terrible accusations that the state of Serbia stands, me personally, one, the other, the third of Serbian leaders and for the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, because it was terribly important to move against Serbs in the north. The only evidence they had and used against Serbs were statements by Serbian politicians who saw Kosovo on a postcard once every three years, and falsely represented that they were from Kosovo and Metohija. After that, I started another kind of Serbian crime, and now I'm going to reveal the information to you. Imagine all these people who are arresting in northern Kosovo. In the Kosovo Police Directorate over the past five years, the best results and the convincingly lowest level of execution of crimes are in northern Kosovo. The directorate, the Albanian Police Directorate in Pristina, boasts that the best condition is that the smallest crime rate in northern Kosovo and Metohija. That sounds strange to you, because you have listened and read in many Western media where the campaign is being conducted, but also from many Serbian politicians who serve those who try to destroy and destroy Serbia, who directly serve them, so in different ways, you have heard about Serbs being afraid of Serbs. No, the Serbs are afraid of Albanians. Only the wicked Serbs fear the reactions of their people. This kind of criminalisation went so far that it had to be shown both in a quantified manner and in a number of arrested Serbs, to say - it is a fight against corruption and crime. The elected Serbs from all four municipalities. And Serbs living in Zvecan and in three municipalities I have already mentioned, so Zubin Potok, Leposavic, Kosovo Mitrovica. They were chosen to force the people to fear into bones and to prevent any defence of the north of Kosovo in the future, to get used to this, to make it normal and common and to be able to spend everything they had done in 2004 and 2008 finishing the story of creating an independent state of Kosovo. We are this morning, and the defence minister and chief of staff have made contact with NATO representatives. NATO has been informed that they are not involved, although it was an attempt by the Hungarian troops of KFOR to move and try to die. The KFOR commander returned them from the scene and announced that they do not interfere with these things that are police nature and concerning the fight against corruption and crime. NATO told us exactly what I told you. It's a fight against corruption, a fight against crime. They support Kosovo's independent state in the fight against corruption and crime, and that's that. We heard and listened to the exact same thing with EU representatives. That's all they could tell us and invited us to calm down, to understand that it was a fight against corruption. I don't have to tell you anything further and give political evaluations. What we've done, I've said more than once, we'll keep peace and stability, almost at all costs, but we're clear enough about what hypocrisy is all about here. This morning at 6 p.m. 29 minutes, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, I ordered the full combat and battle of our army units. Our army, if there is any more serious threat to the order and lives of people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, will protect our people. We are aware of all the difficult and terrible consequences, we are aware of everything that is going on, so we will continue to work to preserve peace and stability. But, you know, when you see it becoming impossible and someone trying to destroy your people and banish your people, I said yesterday, and that's what I said in Kosovo Mitrovica a year ago, we're going to allow a new "storm" in any part of where our people live, we're not. I want to tell you that all police units, special and special, are on full alert. Nothing to hide from anyone. Remember that another thing happened yesterday, Pristina interim institution president Hashim Thaci urged Albania to unite. That means they want to establish an Albanian border towards Serbia and in Kopalnik. So the border of the great Albania can appear to us on the Kopalnik for the next few days, thanks to the Serbs who helped them in the business. My answer to them is -- there will be no such large Albanian border on the Kopalnik. I didn't say it yesterday, and I didn't say it a few days ago because I needed anyone's applause or because I needed anyone's political point, because I know that all these heroes who were accusing me of treason and who here in a fascist way were trying to stop the MPs from going in to do their job, I know that all of a sudden they're going to be prime peacemakers and we're going to explain how we shouldn't protect our people and how they're going to do it much smarter. So we're going to fight to preserve peace and stability, but we'll be fully prepared, I can't reveal the details now, to protect our people as soon as possible. I repeat, I fully understand the gravity of the situation, better than anyone in this room, unfortunately, because of the nature of the work I do, but I want you to trust me as the President of the Republic, too, that if there are further attacks on the Serb people and on the Serb animal, anything I can tell you, and I would like to end this conversation, Serbia will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55195	We continue the work and first the remaining authorised representatives in front of the groups. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55196	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, the PUPS parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia thanked for this comprehensive report on the KIM issue. A question that on the agenda generations before us and which burdens now all well-intentioned people, not only in Serbia but also wider. It was heard by some that this session was unnecessary and unnecessary. We believe that it was necessary and that we had the opportunity to hear firsthand everything that interests the entire Serbian people. This morning's events indicate how right you were, Mr. President, about everything you've been talking about. I am sorry that we are not with the representatives of the Serbs from KIM today, but on the other hand, I congratulate them for returning immediately to their people after this morning's action by the Pristina police and I welcome them on that behalf. When you take the obligation to be an important factor in resolving this issue and propose an internal dialogue on KIM, the PUPS party has fully accepted your call to participate in a dialogue on the achievement of the common position of all major institutions, political parties, or people in general, in resolving the KIM issue in one democratic way, protecting the interests of the Serbian and Serbian people in general. A special importance in all of this, the protection of our people, who have lived for centuries in the areas of KIM and who has survived and who has remained in that space, no matter what challenges and pressures are presented in previous periods. That's certainly significant, because it shows us that the roots of the heart in KIM are far, very deep and indestructible. Because of all this, the PUPS in general, as well as the PUPS parliamentary group in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gives you full support in resolving the KIM issue. The PUPS has decided on its bodies to respond to the call of the president of the Republic of Serbia and to participate with its vision in solving the KIM problem. The PUPS has very reasonable and legitimate views and proposals to be managed in resolving this very complex issue and very important for the Serbian people. For PUPS, the red line on KIM is the property of the Serbian state, the Serbian Orthodox Church and Serbian citizens. It is about property worth hundreds of billions of euros only in the minerals of Kosovo's sites. According to the World Bank's experts, the amount is just as... The PUPS urges that the second phase of the internal dialogue on KIM achieve a general agreement that the topic is currently on all issues in and around Kosovo, the preservation of the property of Serbian citizens, as well as the states of the Serbian-Serbian Orthodox Church. If an internal agreement is reached in Serbia, as regards the start of any further serious negotiations on the future of KIM, a red line over which no political entity, whether from the government, was from the opposition, will cross, then the future status of KIM will be reported, as at least 60% of the KIM land in Serbian property per cataster. According to 1999 catastrian books, out of a total of 1.90 million hectares, KIM's social, private and church property is 641,077,00 hectares or 58,79% of the value and is estimated at billions of euros. Albanians usurped about 80% of the assets, e.g. Only in four municipalities of Metohija, Pec, Klina, East and Orahovac, 76,000 parcels, owned by Serbs, were illegally occupied on the entire territory of Kosovo usurped about a million plots of farmland, meadows, forests, under private ownership estimated at over 50 billion euros. When we talk about property, or the wealth of KiM we need to know that there are great mineral, mineral and other treasures, the lignite reserves on KIM have 14.7 billion tons, which is enough to exploit in the next two centuries, and already that data is sufficient reason to protect property is very important. As early as 2008, zinc reserves in Trepca were estimated to be 415 thousand tonnes, and it is known that zinc ore is fourth in the world by production and consumption, directly behind iron, aluminium and copper. The most important European mine in the German era was Novo Brdo, where lead and silver were mixed with gold. Since the beginning of the 15th century, one of Europe's oldest mining laws, the 1412 Despot-Lazarevic mining law, and during Djuraj Brankovic, a fifth of European silver needs have been met. At the end of the 19th century, foreign capital began to enter the areas of mining in the area of KIM. In the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the English invested in exploiting ore in the Old Square. Now many researchers, investors, constantly bypassing the only address with which, if the sacred rule of property is respected, can talk, and that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The PUPS believes the government of the Republic of Serbia is the only address for potential KIM investors. The PUPS is confident that the Serbian government considers KIM an inalienable part of its territory and this proves that Serbia returns close to a billion euros in KIM debts and will return them until 2041. The PUPS believes other entities should be included in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue. Serbia must use all the international circumstances currently in its hands, especially the EU's view not to recognise Catalonia's voted independence because it is not in line with the Kingdom of Spain's constitution. The only language Europe understands and Spain has warned about is the sacred rule of property. The PUPS suggests that Spain be included in the Brussels dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina as part of a team of European mediators. The PUPS also proposes that the same diplomatic invitation be sent to friendly countries that have not recognised KIM's independence, while referring to Slovakia, Romania, Cyprus and Greece. The problems of Orthodox and Catholics in KIM are the same, given that both were forced to leave the territory and their property in a huge number, and therefore PUPS gives full support to Archbishop Hočevar, but also to the proposal of Milan Krkobic, that the Holy chair which otherwise did not recognise independence so-called. The KIM countries, Kosovo, take a more active role in resolving this local for Serbia, but the regional issue of which depends on the long-term peace and progress of the entire region. Mr. President, the public is under the impression that we are fighting for the north of Kosovo, i.e. four municipalities north of Iber, and even withdraws the thesis of replacing northern Kosovo's territory for the Presevo Valley, Bujanovac and Medvedja. We believe it's neither your attitude nor your responsible people, but no country in the world changes its own for its own, and this story would just go that way if it continued with such propaganda. Please insist, in the talks and negotiations in addition to other issues, on resolving all territories, where it is a majority Serb animal, and this is central Kosovo based in Gracanica, and there is close to 40,000 residents, in a space that covers part of Pristina, Kosovo fields, Lipljana, Slatina, in the south and all the way to Janjeva, Kišnica, Badovac in the east. A large space that has been Serbian for centuries. Kosovo's Pomoravlje, which has four municipalities of Novo Brdo, Ranilug, Partesh and Klokot, with a majority Serb population, where a large number of Serbian nationalities live by numbers almost as north of Kosovo. There is no need to forget the Sierra parish with the municipality of Strpce, where the population is compact, and especially interesting for urbanising the area because of the sports tourist conditions provided by Char Mountains. The Metohija is particularly interesting, first of all, at the foot of the Wet Gore, which is inhabited by Serbian life, and is based on the Zubin stream. The area of Gore inhabited by Goranci, and loyal citizens of Serbia, should insist and declare themselves and enter later after forming a community of Serb municipalities. As you said yesterday about Priluj and Plemetina, it is a space between Vučitrn and Obilić, with a large population, a space that meets all the conditions and criteria of that Ahtisaari plan. And that would be a big deal, if it could be arranged that this municipality is also formed and that it is a Serb municipality within the Serb municipalities community. Mr. President, we at PUPS know that you will do everything in order to protect the Serb population at KIM, and for the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, and therefore PUPS gives you full support in the further fight for resolution, KIM issues. Mr. President, you were talking about the Albanian side's actions to change the national property structure in Central Kosovo and Kosovo Pomoravlje. It is evident that they are buying up Serbian property in these areas. They managed to take the municipality of Gracanica, physically separate from the municipality of Novo Brdo, by joining Serbian villages, first of all, Slovov and Dragovac in the municipality of Pristina, and thus cursing between Gracanica and Novi Brdo. Now, by buying land, they change the property structure of the area, and that compound physically between Novobrdski, i.e. Pomorava and central Kosovo, is certainly in trouble. You were talking about Kosovo Pomoravlje, and Serbia's efforts to create conditions for living in that area. A maternity home in Pasjan, which Serbia has built, and you have opened up and are creating very much conditions. I personally attended this event but also other events that you have realized and contributed to the better, status and material life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. For example, a struggle for Serbia's ski resorts in Brezovica, a visit to Gracanica, Mitrovica and other Kosovo and Metohija sites. In order to better understand the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary to spend more often and more time with our people in Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to point out one example when, as part of the equal regional development, led by Minister Krkobic, I visited cooperatives in Kosovo and Metohija and Zubin Potok municipality, the municipality of Klina in the village of Vidanja, a cooperative in Kosovo Pomoravlje, I would like to point out the special acceptance of every Serbian official by residents of these parts. I would especially like to point out to the lady, a very brave and wonderful woman, the head of the Pečko District of Vinko Radosavljevic, who has been our host all along and led us across Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. President, with respect, you spoke yesterday about military veterans who participated in the parade. Under the echelon of military veterans who marched right behind the war flags, they are proud to be in that power and will always respond to Serbia's call. I had a call for the ceremony, but when I got invited to be in a military vet machine, I never doubted where I was going to be, and I decided to be a veteran machine. There was a number of military people in the machine, which shows that Serbia can always rely on its best personnel. Thank you for that. I thank you for your attention, and I repeat once again that PUPS fully supports you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55197	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear President of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are aware of the fact that events are sometimes faster than life. We just saw it this morning and I can't help but say my opinion, which is that this is the intentional provocation of Albanians, the highlight of hypocrisy. But, Mr. President, you predicted it yesterday. It came faster than many of us expected. Now, in particular, we see in part the reality of your policy, we see the effectiveness of your policy. I want to tell you, Mr. President, that from the parliamentary group and the Social Democratic Party in general, as your coalition partner, you have full support and trust for what you did, what you think you're doing. We are doing this for the simple reason that we know that you know how to protect the interests of the Serbian state, and we are also sending from this Parliament words of peace and stability. Negotiations, compromises, we send it, and in response we get provocations and hypocrisy. All that stuff I wrote and what I meant to say, maybe now I shouldn't repeat it for the simple reason because a lot of things were said yesterday. It is said that in your comprehensive report, you have noted what has been done. I want to say a few words. First, Albanians always knew what they wanted in Kosovo. They had the support of the international community. The Serbs often didn't know what they wanted, but they knew exactly what they didn't want. This time we know what we want. There is unity between the politics of the Serbian state, the Serbs who are in Kosovo. I think that's a very big score. A very large result, because we know exactly what we want and what we want to achieve in very difficult conditions in a very difficult situation. The Kosovo problem didn't arise today, it didn't occur yesterday, it came back many years ago. Many have tried to find a solution. Some easily accepted what was happening, some under foreign mentors accepted everything that was at the expense of the Serbian state. We have come to one situation to look for a way out in an impossible situation, and above all for the protection of our Serb citizens, who live in Kosovo, as well as other non-Albanian people who are related to the state of Serbia and who see their protector in the state of Serbia. To be clear, the International Community and its project to create a multiethnic society in Kosovo is a failed project. Kosovo society is a deeply divided society. One more thing, if we think we're going back to the previous state, be assured, we won't be able to go back to the previous state for the simple reason, but let's see what we can do at this point. You know, Serbia does not need an dysfunctional territory where 1,700,000 citizens will hate the state of Serbia, but it is certain that Kosovo cannot be an international subjectivity without agreement with Serbia and in agreement with Russia and China. It is here that it sees the possibility, the space for our actions, and you, too, in your comprehensive report yesterday, stressed that Kosovo will never become an international subjectivity unless there are agreements with Serbia and compromises with Serbia and, of course, in agreement with Russia and China. I especially stress here how important it is that we have international friends, friends who will support us, who will speak the truth. Our biggest problem, as states, is to highlight what is happening, how our people in Kosovo and other non-Albanians, who are related to Serbia, sometimes we forget about them, and that is why we have to look for these solutions. You know, it's a waste of politics that you're proposing a lot of. In the international public, the mentor countries that made this so-called state of Kosovo, they consider the project completed. You know, I mean the United States, the EU, part of the EU because there are countries that won't recognise it. Secondly, the local public, at least one part of it does not accept any constructive approach. They are for the Statu quo, we in the SDPS believe that status quo is not in the interest of the Serbian state. First, time is not an ally of Serbia; more will happen when we stretch out, there will be no more Serbs in Kosovo. Secondly, you know, European integration, which is our essential interest, will be slowed down. Chapter 35 is one sword standing on our heads all the time and where the EU can always put crows in our EU accession. I will not stress as a party that is fundamentally interested in the state of Serbia being a modern, orderly state, to respect certain standards, we are interested in joining the EU. That is why it is very important and very important to seek the solution, the compromise that will be so that the state of Serbia can continue the integration that we have started. You know, someone may object to us, but if we hadn't signed the Brussels Agreement, if we hadn't objected, we wouldn't have 16 open chapters, we wouldn't have two closed chapters, we'd be at the very beginning. It used to happen that everyone was full of the EU's mouth, and they didn't do anything. They didn't open any chapters. We've opened six. I wish we had opened 26 or more chapters and I want Serbia to be in the EU as soon as possible, but sometimes it is not just up to us, but depends on the political circumstances. Secondly, you know, the unresolved issue of Kosovo is causing nationalism in our region. You will see, to any of our reactions, you will be immediately contacted in our surrounding countries by people who will attack Serbia, talking about the one Serbia that was once long ago, and these nationalisms will generate political instability in this space. We won't have foreign direct investment. Is it necessary to emphasize the 3.4 billion we received last year, the billion and 200 so far? Is it necessary for me to point out the finished highways? I'm proud. I spoke in this room all the time -- it's an epic success, the historic success of opening Corridor 10, that nothing else does this coalition and power, it's a historic success. That's exactly why we have to look for a solution. Can we at this point have a comprehensive solution for Kosovo? We don't think that's possible, because there are no basic assumptions. The international community is busy with other major problems and there is no greater interest in solving this problem. Secondly, citizens in Serbia and Kosovo are not ready for a comprehensive solution. Mr. President, you said yesterday, and I don't think I need to stress that the Kosovo issue is the most important state and national issue. There are no political points here, only responsibility for every move and step taken. We support every dialogue, every search for solutions, including all social factors -- church, Academy of Science, anyone who can make any proposal from all social factors, but also our friends from abroad. That is why the Social Democratic Party, as a responsible and state-of-the-art party within the framework of the internal dialogue, has proposed one solution among the first. We emphasized normalization without recognition. We divided that into three stages. I won't explain it, we put it in public, I'll say it in part. Now the situation has changed significantly, but at one stage to remove all barriers, restrictions on the movement of goods, markets, capital. We suggest a free economic zone is formed in northern Kosovo. You know, the political influence in the world is now being replaced by economic influence. It's very important and very important. You know, the introduction of dragons, I'd say, insolent, brazen tariffs and tariffs of 100%, has significantly reduced our trade. We lose a million euros a day, which is for the state of Serbia, which wants to be a modern state, which wants to move forward, one big minus. Trade Minister Rasim Ljajic spoke with Bosnia and Herzegovina yesterday in Sarajevo, seeking a countermeasure solution, but we are always about to agree, that there is an agreement on all these things. Phase two, you know, that wasn't yesterday's conversation. Let's open the issue of Serbia's property in Kosovo. Serbia has a large property in the land, 29% is owned by the state of Serbia, buildings, businesses. We also have in Kosovo that public enterprises have assets worth more than 1.5 billion euros. Furthermore, much has been invested in Kosovo during the former Yugoslavia, but Serbia has invested. In this kind of conversation, 35.4% of the property belongs to Serbia. And another thing, a lot of private property in Kosovo is usurped. The property should be returned to the citizens and, most often, to Serbian nationality and eventually, depreciated. Yesterday we spoke, and you spoke about it, protecting Serbian cultural heritage. We are legitimate heritage and legal guardians of cultural monuments in Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, we must ensure special protection of monasteries, churches and other objects. Exterior zones are of particular importance and the state of Serbia has a very high interest. You know, we have SPC because I'm afraid of her interests, and I stress, I'm an atheist. To provide facilities, staff and clergy with the necessary security and exteriority. All movable and immovable assets of the SPC shall be non-injurious and shall be managed exclusively by the SPC. It is also an obligation to respect the internal organisation of the SPC and the rights of the SPC to send priests to monasteries and dioceses in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, the Brussels Agreement, where we've invested a lot, I'm not going to emphasize from integration, justice, the police, that I'm stressing the postal number, that I'm stressing other things, but what we've insisted on is a community of Serb municipalities where there hasn't been a step further. We know all the obstructions made by the Pristina administration, defending the inability of constitutional solutions, so to speak. Kosovo states have been obstructing the negotiating team, the team that should have been doing so until they simply avoid and have the support of their mentors. I would not talk about that, except that we have in northern Kosovo, where we have to have territorial autonomy, we have to have cultural and personal autonomy in the enclaves and the south. You know, now I'm gonna say something that was yesterday. You said one very interesting and interesting thing yesterday. The state of Serbia respects the rights of national minorities. We give them all rights in the fields of culture, education, information, language use. If we give it to national minorities in the state of Serbia, we can ask for it in the surrounding countries, and it is a minimum for those, not to take it wrong, I consider Kosovo to be so-called. The state, we must look for citizens of Serbia living in enclaves, so they can show themselves. My colleague from the Hungarian national community spoke very nicely, who said the best things to be said. Also, you spoke yesterday, and here I would like to commend you, with pleasure in the relations between the Serb-Bosnian and all that has been happening in the Raška region or in Sandzak. Here we give you full support and be assured that the Bosniak National Community, and I hope that there will be a speech later on, its largest part, except for individuals who look only at their own personal interests, are linked to the state of Serbia. That is why I thank you, in that sense, for the commendation you gave yesterday for party leader Rasim Ljajic. Be assured, we are always state-of-the-art about the state of Serbia. Of course, I wouldn't talk about phase three, but I think there's got to be some kind of solution, like Dayton 2, but then there's that. It'll be a long time to talk about it. You know, when we suggested this, we didn't plead that this was the best solution, because there is no such solution. We don't expect this to be the most just solution, because it's an illusion. We seek a solution that is least unjust. Mr. President, the Social Democratic Party is a coalition partner and has so far provided full and unequivocal support to the negotiating team and to you. We did it because of the fact that the unity of all important factors in the country and in Kosovo has been achieved in protecting Serbia's interests. This is very important, because Serbia has brought the most unity to a difficult situation. For the first time, you know exactly what you want, not just what you don't want. Courage and determination are the protection of Serbia's interests. State interests, not party interests, are in the first place, perseverance, work, perseverance in the negotiations. International support in getting new friends, withdrawing recognition, rejecting myths, already accepting reality in protecting our state interests. The main goal is to keep Serbs and other non-Albanians from staying in Kosovo and to live and work normally. If the Serbs are not in Kosovo, any further struggle is in vain. Mr. President, in seeking a compromise solution, as so far, you will have our full support and help from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. We know that at this point it seems like an impossible mission, but it should never be taught, negotiations should continue and compromise should be sought. I will quote our great Nobel laureate, Andric – all the Drinas of this world are guilty, they will never be able to make any right, we must never stop correcting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55199	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55200	Thank you. It is easy to be tolerated with opinions and according to the opinions we agree with, to have hearing, patience, and nerves and stomachs to listen to and opinions that we do not like. The debates in parliament, as well as in the media, serve this among other things. These discussions aren't enough for us, and I don't think that's good. It's not good for anyone. It's not good for society, and in the end it's not good for the government, or for the opposition. I didn't have a dilemma whether to attend or not to attend this session, it's too important. I have signed the requirements for this session a dozen times, orally called on that agenda point, criticised the assembly's leadership for not putting that item on the agenda. Really, I'm saying, like it or not, I didn't have a dilemma, and I can't have one. But not wanting to justify anyone, because everyone decides for themselves, I have to draw attention to the fact that the atmosphere in this congregation is not good and that, as I would say, maybe some people refuse to attend. I'm saying, everyone's having political consequences for their actions, but I think it should be our goal together that we don't agree anymore, and it will be seen from this today, far from us agreeing on this issue, not me, not most of us here in the Assembly, not you, or me and you, Mr. Wolf, but this should be something that's meant to be. Because if we don't talk, even more harsh, even more critical, then we're left with nothing but sticks and then we're left with only ugly scenes that can't be good to anyone, and certainly not to the Serbian state in general, and I say that regardless of which one is innocent or guilty. But it's not good for the debates in the Assembly to turn into some warm rabbit for the absent leaders of the opposition or some leaders of opposition parties, who figure 20.30, 40, 50 times a day to mention some names, I have statistics here, but not to lose it at that time. So this was some kind of pledoies, of course you don't formally answer for it, but I think one part of your MPs just thinks it's doing you a favor when it creates or you like it, when there's an unbearable atmosphere here, when it comes to the treatment of the opposition. What the opposition does can also be discussed. Now, some of my friends, when they heard that I was going to go, say so, show him or hand him the Constitution, hand him the gospel of Miroslav, or at least these inscriptions that we had here and sometimes put on it, it's as legitimate as Professor Chevarlic keeps on his laptop this sign against GMO food, to put as some kind of lamp of motive the Brussels Agreement is a betrayal, the Brussels Agreement is a disaster and Resolution 1244. I don't do it, it's not my style, but imagine that it stands, that it is the Light motive of my presentation and I simply ask that when you answer, you react to focus on it. The Brussels Agreement, Resolution 1244, perhaps, is certain that we disagree on this, not only the majority and minorities, but I am afraid and it has proved that the differences on these issues, on the Kosovo issue, and, of course, both according to the Brussels Agreement and the current policy headed towards Kosovo and Metohija, are not black and white, neither is the position nor the opposition monolithic. With the differences within the position less visible and who listened carefully, perhaps you could sense some nuances in intonation with Mr Milicevic, my denominator, and Mr Mijatovic, it is not entirely homogeneous either. When it comes to the opposition both present and not present, it is clear that me and my colleague Stevanovic, I think from the SNS, disagree almost nothing when it comes to the approach of the Kosovo problem. So it's not clear that the position has one position, the opposition to the other. There are various misunderstandings within each and every row and we need to clear them up in an open dialogue, obstructing, arguing, showing who they're wrong about. So, Mr. Stevanović, in my opinion, although he is on this side of the hall, in my opinion, wrong at all, but you were very pleased with his exposure and it is not your fault, it is fine, as I am sometimes not satisfied with some exposure on the other side, but what is controversial is what you think and you commended it also in the report of this Office for Kosovo and Metohija, a lot of effort has been made to explain and justify the Brussels Agreement. I mean, exactly what it doesn't say, but like it says here in my place, the Brussels Agreement is a mistake, to say less, and a disaster, and possibly almost certain and unconstitutional act. Many, as I said, efforts have been made to show things differently, but I would say that just in light of these events that have been worrying since this morning that you have spoken of and all of us have attended, that these events are just confirming, Mr. Vukic, the mistake that we have made, which state or which you have made with the Brussels Agreement. Let's face it, by 2013, until that agreement, I don't think it's just up to him, he couldn't do it like that in the north of Kosovo and Metohija, whether you like it or not. That's what I have to say. You have spent much of your exposure, and colleagues from the ruling coalition, even more, time stamping and accusing predecessors of what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and pointing to their mistakes, failures, sometimes for a reason, I think a little sometimes and excessively. It is certain that sometimes and excessively, but that you are absolutely right, all right when it comes to the mistakes of the predecessors, I think there will be an opportunity to talk about it too, it is quite clear that all these predecessors mentioned, Milosevic, Kostunica, Tadic, are some of your main, Djindjic, in the meantime, made mistakes, but all that time ROSU, Kosovo's specialists couldn't through Ibra, Mr. Vukic, and you know it. When they tried in 2011, KFOR helicopters returned, I think Croatian, were rescued and returned from Jarinj. So, with all the mistakes and failures of previous authorities, and there were them, I'm not only talking about the Kosovo police, I'm not talking about these other aspects, they were guarding something. They managed to preserve, of course, first of all, with the support of the people below, to preserve the positions of the state of Serbia both informally and formally in the north, i.e. in those municipalities in northern Kosovo. Now there, Mr. Vukic, they do, but Kosovo special forces do when they want to, and then you can just spread your hands, lamentate and possibly invite colleagues, or friends from the international community who tell you – so that's a legitimate action of police forces, they fight crime. So if you had any dilemma, if there was any dilemma about the nature of the Brussels Agreement and the consequences of both the state of Serbia and the constitutional order of the state of Serbia and the citizens of northern Kosovo and Metohija, I don't think there are any in the light of these latest events. So, before the Brussels Agreement, they couldn't go north, they couldn't go north, and now they're laughing when they want to. I hope you have someone, and I'm sure you have some explanation. I hope there's a plan, but now, from what's going on, I can't see it with the best will and I just see that we're powerless, as it kind of comes out of everything that you've been saying here, and what we're looking at every day that's happening. If I wasn't talking about that in some way, you did announce it and say it - every moment can be expected, etc., but you said one sentence, I don't think that it was a trigger now, away from it, but you might have been careless, wanting to commend those people yesterday, here, you say -- these people, the Serbs in the Kosovo institutions, are loyal to us, and if we were looking for, there are three points, there's a sentence or a thought being interrupted, as if they wanted to check that loyalty, or as if they heard you and as if they were about suspicious that you were right in that thing, or that those Serbs who are working in those Pristina institutions were going to arrest them. Honestly, I'd like to, if they're already arrested, to be arrested for it, not for saying they're being arrested for crime, smuggling, etc. But anyway, we are as powerless as the state, and we have not been so powerless with all the defeats, failures and failures since 1999, 2004, 2008 and beyond. So that's the key. You've listed some bad, unfavourable demographic data, which, of course, can be accurate, but demographic projections, we all know, are always unreliable. It was said at the end of the 1980s that Albanians in Kosovo would be three million by the beginning of the 21st century, so they were gone. Yes, Serbia is empty, but Kosovo and Metohija are also empty. The Albanians are leaving too, and they're leaving mass. counterpart Mijatovic mentioned 1.7m, the Serbian state is not in the interest of holding one non-functional continent of 1.7m Albanians. I don't think that's the case, double that's not the case. Or there's 1.7 million of them. Look at the results of the elections, the turnout in the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, not counting Serbs and minorities, but hundreds of thousands. One argument is often sought here, and fellow Jovanovic gladly cites it, and some other colleagues are here from the opposition, and on this side of us, who are close, I think, what you are saying, but they will not either say it or not so clearly, so what will Kosovo do now for us, imagine two million Albanians to come to vote in the elections, it was heard even under this slogan, sometimes, not now, yesterday, but occasionally, what would we do with two million Albanians, they would set up a prime minister, government, etc., to lead the main word in the Assembly. So there aren't, of course, half as many of them. When you look at the percentage of the vote, all Albanians from Kosovo vote in the spring elections, let's say the republican, future parliamentary elections, if everyone voted for one list, that would be about 16%, I calculated, there would be about 16% of these Albanian votes. More than 18% of Albanians vote for Albanian parties in Macedonia. I mean, it's no argument that part of the territory is so rejected and we give it up. Not to mention that when you look at the number of voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, almost 40% or 38% of the votes in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the votes of Serbs, Serbs voted, so they make up 40%, not to say the population, but to almost 40% of the electoral, electoral body, meaning the real electoral body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why does no one in Sarajevo conclude that then Sarajevo cannot hold and control the Republika Srpska and best to give it up? Why do I say that? Because directly or indirectly through such demographics, through such statistics, which may be accurate or not, implementing the same Lightmotive, or a very similar Lightmotive, Kosovo and Metohija are the problem, Kosovo and Metohija are ballast, let us solve this problem and ratoslimate it. Well, I don't agree with that. You didn't say it like that, but that's what some others say that otherwise very warmly and loudly support you. But I have the impression that these tones and messages are less disturbing to you than even the most tolerated messages and criticisms on this side. No one wants to push anyone into an adventure or get killed. But it's not nice to automatically stamp a political inexperience that he wants to spill, I don't know, someone else's blood, or anything else. That's what was here, too. So it's not a word we should be fighting. It's just that we don't make concessions any more than we have to, that we don't make things worse and that we don't make it worse than it was, and I agree it wasn't good. I say, if there's a chance for a replica, a dialogue, we can also look back at what was wrong in the previous period. But let's look at it now, let's not be in a situation, and sometimes it looks like you're not the first to do it, that's what the previous authorities did, that they mostly talk about what the predecessors had messed up, so we've been listening together for 10 years about how it was Milosevic's fault, remember, back there for two thousand years, there's nothing wrong. Now we hear they're all yellow, DOS and the like. That really reminds me of the situation with that master, that plumber, who comes in and says every time, this is no good, these predecessors have messed everything up, I don't know what to do. So, I agree we need a consensus. Consensus requires dialogue. The dialogue requires an open-minded dialogue, not a cheap collection of political points. It would probably be better for me if I hadn't come here or if I had come and started scolding you or throwing you shoes or something, but I really will, in my best interest, to hear what that compromise is. And that's what I came to ask you – what is this compromise that we're prepared for? Not in terms of the details of the plan. You say, "We will not give away secrets." Well, we don't want to tell secrets, but we can tell what our red line is. I have here in front of me the last official document this Assembly adopted and that is still valid. This is the January 2013 Resolution, adopted by the assembly majority, although the second meeting, in which it reads loudly and clearly, is the only platform that exists for these negotiations and talks held in Brussels, at least I hope that any solution to the issues of the UN Security Council's temporary, transitional or final status of Kosovo and Metohija must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the UN Security Council 1244. That's not some college paper and phrase. It's a binding document of this assembly. So, January resolution, I mean 9 or 11. 2013 My question to you is, is this resolution still in force? Are we going to vote on something else today? I don't even know if there's going to be a vote, is there any vote scheduled regarding this session today and this report of yours? So, are you still behind this? Does the state of Serbia, does the Serbian Government stand behind that any solution to Kosovo and Metohija must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Security Council Resolution 1244? Someone will say, perhaps not you, or perhaps you will, but some will say, well, that's unserious, so it's irresponsible, so it's a letter on paper. It's not like that. I'd say it's supposed to be our red line or at least our platform and starting point. This is how we, irresponsiblely and secularly, offer some compromises, actually lower the price and lower and spoil our non-good positions regarding Kosovo and Metohija. We're a little bit reminded of someone who's selling or negotiating business, and then he says, "This isn't worth anything," I don't have a foot in Kosovo, we don't have a foot in Kosovo, and now you give me something if you're going to give it. Well, of course he won't give us anything. So, I'm afraid, even if it is with good faith to demonstrate tolerance and willingness to compromise, that it is not a good platform and a good model, it is evident, it does not produce results, neither is the International Community impressed, nor the Albanians, not that they are not ready to compromise, but are increasingly brutal. Do you feel responsible, I end up, because my time is running out, I wanted to save at least another minute for the end, for failing to tell the story of the Brussels Agreement, including not meeting the first six points concerning the Serb municipalities community, which is a scandal on their part, but perhaps you should react slowly to this failure to meet their obligations? Indeed, to finish, it often presents itself as some kind of balance, weight, and noose around the neck. I would quite the opposite say the position of a smart man's mind that Kosovo is actually protecting us, and we are not guarding Kosovo. Kosovo is watching over us. Kosovo is actually guarding Serbia from further burning its stockings, because if you listened to Valentin Inska, what he said after visiting Washington, Valentin Insko, the high representative in BiH, when Kosovo is finished, we move to BiH and sort out the situation there. Maybe that's why, Mr. Wolfie, it's not bad that we're in a bit of a hurry to solve this problem. It's not a frozen conflict, it's just a call and a proposal not to give up in advance and not to deny what we're still holding and we can hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55201	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55202	First of all, I didn't respond to Mr. Stosic, I didn't respond to Mr. Mijatovic, so I'll take the opportunity, a few notes, a few words. Dear Mr. Stosic, I am very happy to see how much you love our Kosovo and Metohija, how well you know our villages. I want to inform you, in the meantime, I have checked all the details, of those 40,000 of which you spoke in central Kosovo, speaking about Kosovo Poland, where we no longer have any Serbs, or only a few Serbs who do not live there, but go, then return, and Bresje has a few dozen Serbs left, and not a few thousand as many as we once had, in that area, where you said that 40,000, now there are 17,300 Serbs. So, more than twice as much and take this 17.300 with the reserve, because today it could be about sixteen thousand and something. You're right about everything they do around New Hill. In Novi Brdo, there is a special action of their secret service, particularly related to the post of Gornja Kusca, where they found the largest number of people who joined their army, the Albanian army, where they paid in particular 700 euros, wanting to guarantee their safety, and in fact they only wanted to break up a Serb municipality that is a very important link between central Kosovo and the Kosovo Sea, as you know. I'm very happy for your findings on veterans, and thank you for noticing that. I am glad that we have a different relationship than many others with those who have been willing to sacrifice their lives and who have fought for our country. Mr. Mijatovic, I listened carefully to what you said and I just wanted to tell you, and then I'll answer Mr. Vukadinovic to all the stories about the price downturn. Neither the Albanians nor the Americans will hear anything anymore without recognition. Keep that in mind. The Europeans don't say anything, but I tell you what they say, and that's why I am in the National Assembly to tell you directly what it is that Americans tell us, what it is that the Albanians are looking for. It is true that economic influence is sometimes much more important than political influence, but also on the property you mentioned, we seem to have tried to impose it a hundred times as a key topic in the Brussels Agreement. They never wanted it and we didn't have a partner on the European side or on the Albanian side. Here, says General Vladisavljevic, literally every time, or all 188 times. So, I'm lucky to be surrounded by our generals, our officers who are very pedantic about it. They know these details better than I do. So, we're not the ones who can always talk about it and force our subjects, even though I don't have to tell you, and you're clear enough how hard we're fighting, it seems to me, every rational, reasonable and correct man. You, Mr. Vukadinovic, started talking about the necessary tolerance, about how good it is to be tolerated. You've been talking for 20 minutes, and I'm not going to go into any political stories that you're representing, whether or not that MP club was in the election, it doesn't matter at all. It is in line with the Rules of Procedure brought by the Democratic Party, and I respect that. As you've seen, no one interrupted you in those twenty minutes. I haven't spoken a single letter, I think, maybe I'm one word, looking for material here, not wanting to interfere with everything you've said. You'll get very precise answers. I'm afraid you won't like the answers, especially for the incursions of ROSA to the north before the Brussels Agreement, because I'm going to give you the exact details, the exact details, but it says that, unfortunately, you're informing yourself in the wrong way, that you misinformed the public and that you don't do it by accident, but you're doing it with a political intention, and that political intention is not even a little naive. That is why Serbia and the administration have worsened, so we were not allowed to fight for the interests of Serbs in the best possible way. You don't have to bring me the Constitution or the Gospel of Miroslav. I can ask you what it says in the Gospel of Miroslav, you have no idea, nor do all those who mention the Gospel of Miroslav. They don't know what century that document is, what it represents, or anything like that. As for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I took part actively and helped you, Mr Vukadinovic, as a prominent activist at the time of Vojislav Kostunica's regime, to bring the constitution, so in 2006, as part of another political party. I suppose without that party, it's hard for this constitution to be passed, but this Constitution in 2006, it seems to me, we made a commitment to the state to respect the Constitution and in 2006, when we adopted the Constitution, we calculated that no one had the right to declare an illegal secession on our country's territory and that the state would protect the Constitution. In 2008, we are declared independent of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, illegally hijacking 10,887 km of square km, and you are silent and holding the petitions, and the Constitution serves you to show it to me today 11 years after they have finished their work. That's not all. You're saying the atmosphere isn't good in the Assembly. As you can see, you, Mr. Vukadinovic, are skillfully capable of speaking about treason. I didn't accuse you of it, I didn't say a word like that about any of you, or you, or many others. Believe me, I'd have a lot more rights, I don't think of it, I'm trying to respect someone else's opinion, to understand different political attitudes, and to treat myself tolerantly. The fact that I'm not giving in and I'm fighting, it's saying something else, not that there's no tolerance. I've come here to hear, not once, but I've heard it a dozen times, not you, but all of you, and dozens of times you've had the opportunity to say whatever you wanted. Yesterday, your coalition partners, the ones you must have been on the list, met me here and chased after me, I guess they want to beat me. On the side, I don't have to tell you, you know that well, that I can't, but it doesn't matter. I'm talking about their intention. I'm asking you where it is and when it was, when you're talking about that atmosphere. Never, there are people here who were 25 years old, when it was, Veroljub. It was to argue with MPs like this in parliament, and to fight, but not to let someone into parliament, it never happened in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism. It's the worst time of the fascist tradition of the 30s last century that hasn't happened. This has never happened in Serbia, and don't look down, don't pretend to be someone who's offended, when you call people liars, traitors all the time, and use the worst possible terms. You do that all the time, and you make that kind of replacement thesis. I didn't stop here yesterday and chase to beat Bosko Obradovic, but he did. Then after that, they complain when someone confronts them, even though it wasn't me and none of ours. We've been moving, we see a man very strong, he's very strong, he's better off staying away, but some others aren't. Then they start crying and moaning all over the place. Well, wait for the people where it is? Is that the tolerance you're talking about? That you surround the presidency and say - we don't let him get out. Who are you to keep me from going out? What are you so you won't let me out? Who are you to block the mayor, deputy mayor, anyone? Who are you to draw signs in this country? Who are you to do this, to destroy the property of this country and these citizens? Who gave you that right? Let's go back, just a little attention, please. You said the Brussels Agreement was treason. We'll go back to the Brussels Agreement. You're saying I'm happy with Stevanović's exposure. I don't know which party he's from, or any of the MPs' groups. I was very unhappy with that exposure. You see how much you don't know me or politics. Because I immediately recognized that they could take half or one percent of the votes in a smart way, and I struggle in politics that we have more and that you have less. And that, as you can see, is going very well with you, I'd say, from time to time, and it's going to continue, and here I saw a partial danger, and that's why I reacted. As far as the story goes, Rosu couldn't go north. You heard it three times again, says Mr. Vukadinovic, quoting - ROSU, and besides all that bad to the Brussels Agreement, he couldn't get into the north every little bit. And you know that now ROSU's breaking into the north because we're reacting right now, and we're looking for an immediate withdrawal of ROSU, because we have a legal basis for that. Now you will see the details and see what lies Mr. Vukadinovic has made. Namely, July 26, 2011. Who was in power? You've been in power, these yours yes. So DOS in power on July 26th 2011, special police units ROSU raid Kosovo's north with 19 motor vehicles. They go to exercise full control over the crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak and then ensure that customs border authorities so called. the Republic of Kosovo. During the incursion of ROSU to the north, the death of one of the members of this unit in the village of Zubce near Zubi's stream. I don't understand what you're telling me right now. So, you said Rosu couldn't go north and now we see that ROSU fell north from 19 motorized vehicles. They were saving them back on their noses? Well, couldn't they have come or saved them on their noses? My Vukadinović, Mr. Vukadinovic, what are the empty chars and cafe stories? That's what you're going to say tomorrow that their four are wounded today. The evil Serbs wounded them, so you'll talk about how they couldn't do it. We first received the Brussels Treaty legal basis to ask ROSU and the Albanian armed units not to be in the north. They cover themselves by saying it's not a military operation. They could have brought whoever they wanted before. Now we have a legal framework that I can't do and that's why we can't ask for their removal. I brought you to see this 2011 agreement, based on which ROSU entered to protect... Here you see, please let the camera show, that was your answer. After the incursion of ROSU, we enabled the formation of the Jarinje and Brnjak border crossings with Borko Stefanovic's parade on every page here. Look - Borko Stefanović, Borko Stefanović, Borko Stefanović, Borko Stefanović. In point 2, it is in Serbian or I have to read in English, well - working in good faith the parties agreed to establish the beginning of work of the joint integrated border management and border crossings of Jarinje-Rudnica, Tabavia-Brnjak, Bela Earth-Konculj, Merdare-Mutivod and Depce-Mucibaba, 2011. It's just that all Serbian citizens see it and make it clear to everyone and it's right after Rosa's incursion. So, Mr. Vukadinovic, unfortunately, I don't want to believe that you were deliberately not telling the truth. I want to believe you've forgotten about these things that aren't exactly details, but I believe you've forgotten. It's 2011 or 2013 and it's not that far. You see, you said something that didn't just hurt me, but, I would say, it hurt every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija. You said that today we are much more powerless than we were in 2004, 2008, until 2012. In 2004, they burned 29 temples, broke crosses on Serbian monasteries and churches, killed dozens of people, persecuted thousands of our families, and the powerful state did what - they did not walk, decided to take revenge on them by burning down the mosque in Belgrade, and then remembered that they were accusing each other of who was responsible for the burning mosque, and Serbs in Kosovo forgot at the same time. Where did this power of the state come from? This power of state and defence of the Constitution, since you forget that there are people who know all the details of Serbian politics, since we brought the Constitution in 2006, and it was brought here to prevent the illegal secession of the work of our territory. That's what we talked about, Mr. Vukadinovic, and you and I. I also talked to Kostunica and Nikitaovic about it, both Boris Tadic and Miodrag Rakic. I talked to them all about it. Where did we get this constitution? Where did I get lost in February 2008? Since we didn't think of him anywhere, we were fighting over who sent people to the American Embassy, and who's going to go to Romania and who's going to talk to more foreigners to rule more successfully. To be honest, Kostunica was something more honorable. As for Kosovo and Metohija, as far as the Serbs are concerned, they didn't think of it, and what did we do, powerful and powerful then? Nothing, Mr. Vukadinovic, as after the first incursion of ROSU to the north in 2011, we decided to hand over all the border crossings to them and, as the children would say, give them quick speed to govern Albanians. Especially what Mr. Risticevic says, not to say that all Serbs have been arrested and persecuted in all possible ways after that, who have dared to try to burn down the facilities on Jarinj and Brnjak and break the border between Serbs and Serbs. Let me go back to what's most important. You have also made a mistake in the percentage of Serbs in BiH and the percentage of those who go to the elections. The percentage of Serbs attending the election is 31.4%. The percentage of Serbs total is 30.7%. It's because of generational differences because Bosniaks have a slightly younger population than we do. You know, it's on the last list, but you have to look at it. Nothing more. That's well-intentioned, just so you can see it. You spoke a few times, you resented me, but that's not what I said, it's what someone I like said. How do you know who I like? What have you become, Grandmother Wang, to guess what I like and who I like? That's what I usually hear from Bakir Izetbegovic. He says -- he didn't say anything against BiH, but when he talks about the partition of Kosovo, he means the division of Bosnia. How does he know I mean it, and I've never said it in my life or anything. You've found good authority and good idol. Everyone knows what it is that I think. People I say what I mean and say what I want to say, not you to tell me what I'm going to say, not to guess what I'm thinking. I understand that you're an analyst, but you're not a doorman, and when you're an analyst, then you have data, you have facts and what someone said or did, not to guess what's in my head and what my feelings are for someone. I was worried after Stevanovic's speech yesterday, and I'm telling you the most serious thing right now. Very worried. Very worried. I can give you some of the advice for some of the next choices, if you participate, if you participate in any way. By the way, by the half of 2012, the Serbian government also accepted a stamp with the official "Charina Kosova", of course an agreement on the management of the crossing and the jurisdiction of Kosovo on that. As long as you keep that in mind. So it's all inherited. As far as the Brussels Agreement is concerned, to return to the essence, we were saving what could be saved and saved the Serbian people. That we lost nothing essentially, but that we had police in the north trying to protect the Serbs and which was made up of Serbs, which we didn't have at the time. It is true that it works within the framework of Kosovo's so-called Legal system, but we didn't have any police back then, but it was ROSU and everyone else could do whatever they wanted. That's the fundamental difference. What we fought for is to be respected by the international community, to preserve the reputation of Serbia, that they can't blame us for anything, without essentially losing anything and not being powerless, as we were, absolutely powerless in your time and in the time of the authorities of those you supported, and what I now seem to have fundamentally apologized. Also, about that guilt and putting blame on anyone, I didn't say they were anywhere near the most guilty. This problem lasts 200 years. I was just saying that they were incompetent, that they were acting that way, I'm talking about these DOS people, that they acted that way because they wanted a lot more authorities and money than they were interested in Kosovo. Milosevic had another problem, not that Milosevic was interested in it that way. Milosevic was interested in something completely different, which I think was the wrong assessment and it was done badly. But it seems to me that these are historical results. As for the other results of who's to blame, it seems to me that in the economy we can hardly be guilty of anything, if we're not already very responsible. From highways and railways that didn't even exist, to how much we built them, to how much public finances were arranged, to how we put unemployment in half, to how we dropped the public debt to 50%, so already in 2012, it was 54%, and it had to increase by 2015 because of everything left for us, and it wasn't covered by real financial resources, etc. So I don't see what anyone here can say is guilty, except when you're listening to tycoon stories where someone's going to bring us back to socialism and communism, but only to be rich, like the one who takes 500 million euros, but doesn't let the people take 700 euros, because that's a lot. And then he says -- what are the salaries not 1,000 euros? Well, why didn't you pay 1,000 euros, but you had to take 500 million euros and the people have 300 euros in salary? I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about this colleague of yours, this boss of yours. Secondly, let me tell you something, when you're talking about who's giving and who's dropping the price, let me tell you something. I think that your flag "One of the Five Million" in Kosovo Mitrovica, which is carried by a man who says he will vote for Gonja Ceaushi, and then does not come out, of course, to vote for Gonja Ceaushi with all his heart, only not to vote for the Serbian list, not because she is an Albanian, but because she represents whether the party of Kadrija Happy or Albin Kurti, I do not care, both favour the great Albania. It seems to me that is the best thing to say about "One out of five million" and your policy. I'm so glad I could answer everything you said. I feel responsible for the Brussels Agreement, even though I didn't sign it. I went away the day after the Brussels Agreement was signed to explain it to the Serbian people and I am very proud that after that we had six years of peace and that in no way were Serbian interests threatened, and everything was destroyed and everything was destroyed. I am very responsible, and as much as I am responsible, the fact that I was able to get 86% of the votes in the presidential elections, when all your presidential candidates participated in those elections. It seems to me that our people in Kosovo and Metohija understood it in the best way possible. I guess these people know better who stands up for them and who fights for them than some other people. To go back to what's most important since this morning. It was very important for me to answer this, so that you wouldn't listen to such untrues in the future about how ROSU had never entered before and how it was possible from the Brussels Agreement. In the Serbian Church Assembly, I heard, people, you can believe, these are the nonsense you read on social networks, in their tabloids, in the tycoon media. They convinced us not to finance more Serbian schools in Kosovo and Metohija south of Ibra. They convinced those people, those people started to believe it. In all such untruths they began to believe, and that's why it's important that we have this open and tolerated debate, at least on our part a toleranceal debate, that we don't tell you that you're traitors and everything else you're telling us. I don't have a problem with that, when I see who's telling me things like that, I know I'm a great patriot and a great citizen understands it. Let's get back to this today. Please, just a minute. Yes, here, Anna delivered the UOENZ to me about energy, countries that otherwise recognised Kosovo for the first time now voted for us in the last year. So, both Hungarians and Bulgarians, I'm not going to tell you that Japan has even abstained from Interpol, and many other countries. But, okay. It's already known to people. Let's talk about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Hashim Thaci has just confirmed that they have arrested a Russian citizen, because they want to be heroes of America and to show that they can do whatever they want and how they want. On the other hand, whether it's true or not, we'll see, but that's how the president of the provisional institutions confirms it. On the other hand, there's something else that's very important. They say it is an action in the entire territory of Kosovo. Please, listen to what hypocrisy is and what recklessness it is. They're going to arrest, Veran, just listen to me, they're going to arrest 25 people in the north. As I said, and I'm no prophet, but I had intelligence 20 days ago, I went public, trying to protect these people. I went public on state television, here in Belgrade, and I invited all EU and international community representatives to respond to it and not to do it. They didn't do it on purpose. They were deliberately waiting for us to say that here we were talking about compromise and peace, to try to cause our rash and nervous reaction. Our reaction will be planned, will be serious and will be responsible and not at all powerless to Mr. Vukadinovic. It is important that people know not only in northern Kosovo, Mr Stosic, but in the entire KIM. I want to tell you something else, they are our Serbs today, to see how they made a difference, Serbs and Bosniaks, to be exact, they bound like beasts. They literally tied them up like beasts. And you know how these Albanians were arrested? Got people calling to report to the station. Our people even told them three days ago, two days ago, if the fight against corruption is, if Ramush Haradinaj leads a big fight against corruption, however it sounds, no problem, send a call, people will respond. They won't leave KIM territory, they live here. No, chains, tie them up like beasts, like animals, so the Serbs are humiliated, and all Albanians get a nice call. It is, as I would say, a picture and an opportunity of those who have stood up to us and as mediators in the talks, and I do not feel any responsibility for what the EU did not want, not that it was not capable, but that it did not want to implement what was guaranteed. As you can see, unlike the ones you supported, I dared face-to-face with all the foreigners yesterday to tell them what I think of their work, the government's agenda does not get the American embassy, as it did before, not to inform them of our actions, but we act as a sovereign and independent country. To finish, we are in a difficult position, a very difficult position, with little of our guilt today. I certainly do not rule out a part of our past guilt, but I would say that today there is much more blame for those who thought that by throwing Serbia on their knees they could end some of their geopolitical interests and who think they have done it completely. To know how deaf the phones are when it takes something to do for the Serbs. Can you believe when we keep one of their Serb servants at the border, or Albanians, or anyone else for 15 minutes, then 50 of them call the same second. Here, let me immediately inform them, since they won't have a chance, many of them will hear me on the phone from various bureaucrats, one way or another, changing my phone and will be excluded for them in each of the similar cases. What's also important, Serbs in KIM, is these days are difficult for us, 25 people have arrested them, not for crime and corruption, they'll find one, two, three for it, they've done it to scare our people in the north of KIM. Their only goal, their desire, is to take over northern Kosovo, because they believe they have taken over and mastered all other areas of KIM. My message to our people is, first of all, to say thank you very much, to say thank you especially to the heroes in the Zubian Strait, who to their teeth were opposed to the armed SWAT team, who didn't escape even when they were shot over their heads. To tell them that they will talk about it in Serbia, that their heroism will not remain undetected, because they are no criminals, but ordinary citizens, and that they do not have to worry, they heard what I said yesterday and today what I said. They repeat that one, the only, and the important sentence, and you, and those who know me, know whether I am serious or not, we will safeguard peace, preserve stability, if they force us to protect Serbs, everything I have to say, unlike many previous decades, Serbia will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55203	The last person authorized is George Komlenski, so we'll go to the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55204	I thank the chairman. The Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President... (Alexander Wolf: George, just to ask for one sentence.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55205	I'm sorry, George. Good news. They inform me exactly that the great Western forces responded to their action in the Zubian stream and said that nothing to do with the fight against corruption had anything to do with it, but that it was overstepping, etc. It's good news for the citizens. I said, Serbia will win.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55206	Call again so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55207	I thank the chairman. Dear President, I am very pleased that you have had the opportunity to interrupt me with this information that really means a great deal to us in this room and to the citizens of Serbia, and most of all it means to our fellow citizens, Serbs living in KIM. This session showed that this was still the right time to maintain it, with this agenda and very important messages heard from this Assembly yesterday and today. The fact that today and yesterday in this room there is no coward, who yesterday in front of the assembly hall, has been inventing a camera of stupid reasons to justify their inability and their cowardice. Is that by any chance from today's perspective? I don't believe in coincidences, and I don't believe that it's an accident, especially when we look at and see that it's exactly those cowards who aren't like the great fans of the post-taxtobaric 2000, the events of the great Western forces did nothing for our citizens and our citizens in the KIM territory, the same ones who in 2004, who couldn't see what was going on at the pogroms and in no way tried to protect the lives of the citizens, let alone the property and the citizens and churches in the KIM territory. Why do I mention this? I note, for this reason, because the situation in 2004 was drastically different today. In 2004, even KFOR retreated behind the Ibra River expecting a reaction from the Republic of Serbia to allow police and military forces to enter and protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. But then the government was gone. What was expected of those who agreed in 2008 that Kosovo's declaration of secession would come after the presidential elections. Simply, those cowards were brave only to arrest us on Jarinj and Brnjak, both us and the Serbs from KIM when we were trying to prevent Borko Stefanovic from setting the border between Serbs and Serbia. What's even scarier, they were brave enough to ask the stupidest question the International Court can come up with on KIM's status. Brave probably because they were encouraged by the money of their sponsors today. I ask myself loudly, plainly and openly here in front of all of you and in front of Serbia, who came up with the question? Pozdarac or Jeremic? Patrick Howe or Sorosh? Those cowards were eating the braves to let Flyor Brovin and the Mazrek brothers and thousands of other convicted murderers, and they had no idea they'd trade them for at least one kidnapped Serb with KIM. They courageously drafted agreements to use documents and tables issued by separatist bandits, which NATO bombs have put in a position to embezzle in Kosovo. Even in their contract with the people, they had nothing to write as a solution they offer and suggest for KIM, and now they're giving us lessons like that from the truck, from the bar, without responsibility to anyone or anything. Now they teach lessons when part of the largest forces that support the independence of this terrorist state, because they created them, is eager to wait for any reason for Serbia to say it will no longer negotiate. Such an attitude would automatically lead us into a position that without us, without Russia and China, the KIM dialogue would be cut off and what they intended to do eventually. We must take good care of that. The Brussels Agreement, as a consequence of all this I have stated, still there are some good sides that don't want them to realize that when it comes to the state, what the predecessors leave you by agreeing, you can't say – I wipe it with a rubber, it doesn't apply anymore, I want something new and better, and especially in a situation like this when big people don't even want to talk about the Serbian interests of KIM. On the other hand, with this gift today is also close to overstepping and suffering, especially as it is currently happening on KIM. It is good that the Western forces have said what you have now told us, it is no action in the fight against corruption and that they have exceeded all powers, but simply it must continue to work, deeper and this situation clearly shows that they cannot and must not make hasty moves. The fact that evil is contained while it's still little. The chances of these before us have been missed, so today we have taxes, walking troops of the Republic of Albania through KIM, joint exercises of the UCK terrorist army with some neighbouring countries, which are otherwise EU members. These are serious provocations that require a serious and measured response that we rightly expect from you. What they did not expect would happen, which is strengthening the military, economic stability, diplomatic initiative to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's quasi state, new jobs, building infrastructure was the strongest, strongest and most serious response no one expected after 2012. From Serbia, which was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012, which the military looked like a hunting association, to Serbia, which almost almost had to kneel and asked for us to be left alone at any cost, including the cost of giving up Kosovo and Metohija. That response should be even stronger and stronger, or new steps should be taken. The Brussels Agreement is somewhere on artificial apparatus, I am free to say almost on exhale, and perhaps it is time to make sure that we do not interrupt dialogue, that we are not responsible for the interruption of dialogue, that we continue the initiative that China and Russia seek participation in the KFOR contingent in Kosovo and Metohija, that the format of the negotiations from the European Union is returned under the auspices of only the Security Council. Dear citizens, Kosovo and Metohija are wealth, in every sense of the word, spiritually and materially. What no one wants to say, but we must open up and think about it when we judge what we are going to do next, we must ask ourselves loudly, for example, a question as a people when and if Serbs will ever want to live in Drenica and whether any of us want 80 MPs from Kosovo and Metohija in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You should work as fast as you can, but you can't make the wrong decision. What is certain, Your Honor, whatever you suggest and do about Kosovo and Metohija, you will be guilty and responsible, and we will be guilty with you. But this is a moment where responsibility must be assumed for both the future and Serbia and the children and prosperity. That is why I am asking you not to worry about Northern Macedonia or Montenegro, what will the great Albania, which they are silent about and cannot speak out or oppose. They didn't care about us in 2008. Be the president of Serbia who will take care of Serbs, Serbia, Republika Srpska, all Serbs. When you think about a solution and think about a solution, we need to think about our Serbs, not just one part of our people, but that's the only way to solve the national issue of Serbs, and that must be our historic task. The fact that you're leading a policy of peace and you don't have conversants on the other side who think in such a way, at least not among the Shiptars, is exactly asking us to be as firm as a wall, to make our economy even more stable, the army that strengthens, and then peace will be safer. There is no reconciliation, because we have nothing to rest about, Serbia has not committed any crime or genocide, nor owes any war damage. There is no reconciliation, but we need to clearly define and distinguish and only a force that cannot be challenged can provide stability. Although I sometimes had a dilemma about whether to think about demarcation as a solution, the moment Germany, Croatia, Montenegro, Albania, all our friends were declared against it, I began to realize that this should be seriously considered. When your enemies are proven and testified against something, there's probably something that can be of use to you. These figures would not be against it if it were just as bad for Serbia, at least as thinking. Dear President, the closer our army is to Pristina and Tirana, the further away we will be from the great Albania and the possibilities of a new war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55208	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55209	A few words. Of course, I'm telling you all the information firsthand about how I get and who don't always have to be 100% accurate. It's confirmed to be a Russian citizen. Officially, Russian Federation Ambassador to Serbia Alexander Cepurin reacted. Probably this Russian, the head of UNMIK, some smuggler, was involved in criminal activities, and now it's on some new Strahe footage to show us. What's important is that, according to the information we have, only four other vehicles of NJSO, it's the new ROSU, they're in northern Kosovo and they're retreating. It is good news for the preservation of peace and stability for our citizens in northern Kosovo and Metohija. According to information, their plan was exactly 26 people, 19 people from the north were brought into the southern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. As for these Western forces, they did not come out publicly with such an attitude, but supported their action, but told them that what was in Zubino's stream was an overuse of force and that it was important to withdraw quickly. I guess that's the key thing that made them back out like that. In any case, they will continue with these provocations. Hashim Thaci said – Vukic knows, therefore, that is all reliable information, to quote, that he must not go to Kosovo because he is waiting for NATO. Hashim Thaci is right, I know it all, and I know how difficult it is for us, and I am very happy when Hashim Thaci is calm and he is sure that he knows everything well and that he understands everything well, and we will, of course, look to preserve peace, and once again I am grateful to our people for the courage, for the heroism and for having once managed to preserve our hearths, Serbian hearths, and for showing how safe they are, how the doves can protect their country, their houses and their families. There's only one thing I want to point to you. So we didn't react, as you saw, to the participation of representatives of Kosovo troops in Croatia in the exercise, not because we couldn't, it's such a terrible provocation, it's not done. It's not done, whatever it is. Just don't do that, especially if you're a neighbouring country. But I wanted to keep quiet on purpose, to show that we don't have to react at all times, and those who did and did, they only did to see our hasty reaction and nothing more and nothing else at all. So, let them do their job, we'll do our job. We'll do it in accordance with international public law always. We will do our best to ensure Serbia's economic and social progress, and I will not remind any further of my words. We still need a lot of time to strengthen our army and our troops, the additional police, even though they're literally tenfold stronger today than they were, but we'll be able to do everything we can and do, we'll be able to respond to everything and protect and preserve our people. Thank you very much. Thank you to all MPs, the heads of Parliament groups who participated in this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55210	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word is Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55211	Thank you. All of us here and the President of the Republic and members of the Government and the People's MPs have sworn an oath in which words are also contained, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of it. That's what we'd have to gather around, both the position and the opposition. That's why I'm not leaving the Assembly, and otherwise I wouldn't have left even if it hadn't been for this session, but it's a good thing that this session was and where good luck we had one session each year on this subject, there would have been fewer strangers, fewer misunderstandings. Also, I would like to commend myself in the context of this integral part of the oath that we all, Dr. Nenad Popovic, without a portfolio, have publicly said that he remains consistent with the oaths. I hope everyone else remains consistent with their oaths. I would also like to commend the activities of the Foreign Ministry to annul the recognition of an independent or independent Kosovo, the Republic of Kosovo and the prevention of membership in international organisations. What this country hasn't used enough is the involvement of our diaspora in agitation under state-owned functions in countries where they work. Only the highly educated association, led by Professor Jovan Filipovic, has about 8,000 intellectuals from Serbia working in countries around the world. I think it should be used far more, but the diaspora is particularly neglected. This is also seen in the results of their participation in the elections, and according to this country's relation to the Diaspora Authority and to the assets and the Diaspora Authority, which is now being given some other needs, and should be the home of Serbs in the diaspora. A key question for the President of the Republic or for those who are in charge of the negotiations, which will be authorised to conduct the negotiations, is contained in the Law on the rule of the Holy Sava. This year we've been marking 800 years since it was written. That every host's obligation to inherit the estate is to keep, and if God does, to increase it. Each of us in our lives was in a double role. Once he receives inheritance, and for the second time at the end of this earth's life, he leaves heirs. Only the chosen ones, individuals have one more chance, which is to preserve the inheritance of a single country as a whole and at least leave in the same state to the next generation. I would also like to suggest that, in future talks, you are potential for something that I have never heard in this Assembly, nor in anyone's statement, which is that the Albanian national minority in the SFRY, or Serbia, or in Kosovo and Metohija, has experienced a real cultural, economic and any other bloom. And to break out arguments of any objections to the demeaning attitude towards the Albanian national minority in Kosovo. Read my work, which has been published in several languages, and is now in the press, at the "Do Not Forget" rally dedicated to 20 years of bombing, NATO bombing Serbia. That's where I analyzed that from... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55212	Time, MP, you've wasted your time. Just finish it, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55213	Given the individual statements, which are mainly about those who were in a certain way co-workers of the late President of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind you of his statement in The Hague tribunal – anyone who is stronger to take from you, everything you have, even to take your life, and you can only take away your own honor. Thank you. Finally, the question I ask the President – will you recognise the unilateral declaration of independence of KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55214	I'm asking the MPs to speak exclusively in the microphone, they're hearing very badly in the O.R. The next speaker is Nenad Canak. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55215	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers and fellow MPs, I will be free to speak directly to the President of the Republic with a question – do you remember Mr. President in 2006 when we met outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed, you were an MP at the time, and Mr. Jovanovic and I were in charge of demonstrations against the adoption of the Constitution. Do you remember that? Now, in this constitution against which we have demonstrated, which is currently in force, the preamble says -- starting with the KIM province being an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia, because from such a position the province of KIM follows the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in KIM, in all internal and external political relations, Serbian citizens bring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I read this because in 2008, when in this same hall was a session about Kosovo's declaration of independence, I began and then my exposure to the same reading of the same text, because he clearly says what needs to be done, which is that, at this point, if we stick to the letters of the Constitution, which is our obligation, because we swore on it, we need to engage all available military and police forces, go to Pristina, arrest Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj and choke the rebellion on part of Serbia's territory. That's what I said in 2008, and I repeat that now. Can you do that? Of course he can't. Since it can't be done, then 12 years later or 11, as far as it's been, something has to be done, at least with the agreement of the Constitution with its actual state, and the actual state is exactly what we're talking about right now. We have a serious misunderstanding, about the negotiations you mentioned, which are in the dead end, if I understand correctly, but those negotiations that are in the dead end are not at a dead end since yesterday, but they've been at a stalemate for many years. The reason is very simple, because in all negotiations, it has moved from the same platform, which is nationalist and centralist, because you are Mr. Nationalist and Centralist, and that is why, to insist on the line and the points of the misunderstanding in Kosovo, let's make sure that I use the word, between Albanians and Serbs, you are doing one serious thing that I have to question. Is it the conflict between Albanians and Serbs, or is it the conflict of the current Pristina administration with the part of the Serb-born population living there? It is a very important difference, because if the Albanians are those with whom the misunderstanding is, then it is a direct call to happen because of the ROSU action or what they are now called 'nasu', or what is already, I don't know, in northern Kosovo this morning, if not already worse Albanian bakeries around Serbia, it will certainly happen, because in that case you identify and not only you, but a complete narrative, related to the Kosovo issue in the past decade, identifys an entire ethnic group, with one political project, and it simply isn't true. That is why, because of the seriousness of the situation, because of what you said, and I trust you with my word that you will keep your promise, that in the event of an attack on the population, in northern Kosovo, the state of Serbia will intervene and win, protect. I have to draw attention to the fact that it's such a serious thing that I really don't understand why other fellow MPs aren't here right now, because this isn't a subject on which we have rights, any of us, to not take up our share of responsibility for the clear reason that this isn't from yesterday and the day before, but, as far as I can remember, since 1968, so 1981, well, then, etc., etc. 1989, and so on. So it's a completely wrong setting of trying to solve all of this. On several occasions, it is mentioned here that the borders between Serbs and Serbia, Jarinj, Brnjak, etc., and I have to draw attention, if it comes to such a type of narrative, should it be surprised if someone mentions, say, in Albania that Albania is bordering on all its borders with Albanians and that same argument puts us in a position to justify a large Albanian project, which apparently gains popularity. I just want to draw attention to the fact that this is exactly how potential allies are lost, potential advisers, potential good-willed people we can talk to, because if we talk, let's say, about Hashim Thaci, who you mentioned in your speeches a couple of times, I'll remind you that the strongest criticism of Hashim Thaci and the most argumentative one wrote in his book "Snake Legs" Veton Suroi, I'm sure you've read that book and you know very well that such critics can't be classified as "Albanians are for this, and Serbs for that". That is why, by making it simple, we are coming, I understand that you mean a certain political idea when you speak that way, but I ask you not to do this, because you will put a loyal citizen of the Republic of Serbia of the Albanian national community at risk because of the irresponsible moves of the Pristina administration. That's one thing. The second thing, when we look around the deadlocks in the negotiations, we need to look at the fate of the UK after these elections that were held for the European Parliament, which, despite the Bregzit, took part and it is evident that a number of new problems are opening in Britain that the EU has closed. This is the problem of Scotland, as you have seen that the Scottish National Party has received, practically, all over the world, this is the problem of relations with Ireland, these are relations problems, despite the complete Europe. It is precisely, if you turn that process around that you will get, so that, by staying in Britain in the EU, these problems will be the easiest thing to say to be relaxed if they are not completely removed. This tells us that by changing relations is the nineteenth century concept of the notion of a nation related to territory, in this case it is solely harmful because it puts us in a position to bind nations and territories we lose sight of the integration processes that the EU offers as an essential solution to all of this. And because the more the EU, the less tension. I know, since I am the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, I know very well how much the situation of the Brussels bureaucrats has put us in a position to not be objectively well evaluated. I know that many of the things we've done in the past few years have been done, so, these 16 open chapters so far, they're not valorized in the way that they've been done, say, in Montenegro. But that still does not mean that this path, which Serbia advocates, must be put into question in any way. I'm convinced that this is your intention, not only isn't, but that you're just working on it so it doesn't happen. Well, I pray in that sense an explanation of where the misunderstanding is? Why isn't it going to change the Constitution? Why is this, now in connection with the intervention of special units of the Pristina administration in the North of Kosovo not insisting on Rambuje 2? Why? I was present in Paris when Rambui One was held, so I know what it looked like and then it could have been done a lot. It's not done. Serbia paid a serious price for it. But continuing with error means making two mistakes. Is there something to be done and should Serbia's relationship to the environment be considered precisely in this light that I'm talking about? That's what I wanted to ask you, if you'd answer me, I'd be very grateful. Thank you very much. And, of course, just another little thing I wanted to say to you for information. Since they are mentioned a lot as an argument in Kosovo as monasteries and saints in Kosovo, etc., which are primarily universal, since these are the sanctity of the rank of the first degree of protection of UNESCO, it is indisputable that it must be protected, but I will have to draw attention, the greatest sanctity of Serbian Orthodoxism is located in Greece, the Hilandar monastery, and in northern Kosovo there are seven monasteries - Sokolica, Banjska, Bogorodik's monastery, monastery in the Deep Potok, St. Friday, the Mother of Troyrica and St. Vrača. These last three are new and still in construction. There are 20 monasteries in Frusca Gora, 16 of which are alive. St. Friday in Berkas, Privine Head, Divša, Kuveždin, Petkovica, Šišatovac, St. Archangela, Vranjaš, Beshenovo, Beocino, Mala Remeta, Jasak, Rakovac, Vrdnik, Staro Hopovo, Novo Hopovo, Grgeteg, Gravika, Remeta, there I am baptized, Krushedol and Vededication of the Holy Mother in the Sremski Karlovci. (Vojislav Seselj: Drunk pop baptized you. I'm a Serb, you don't know, Mr. Seselj. So, it's just that I wanted to mention, let's just remind ourselves that it's not really, not all these arguments are so hard and firm and that there's something out of Belgrade and that there's something outside of northern Kosovo, that there's something else. Due to the seriousness of the situation and the threat of serious consequences, of course this is an important moment, but I ask that some attention be paid to other parts of Serbia. For example, let's say, what first comes to mind, Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55216	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55217	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Chevarlich, I'm glad you can recognize true patriotism in the government, unlike those of others. I wasn't planning on admitting something that made it possible for those you were on the list to happen earlier. So that's my shortest answer, and I'm not gonna do it. As far as all your questions are concerned, Mr. Canak, negotiations are at stake because Albanians or if you want, the Pristina administration, however, may have made a mistake here, not deliberately and not wanting to cause any problem for people loyal to Serbia's citizens living in central Serbia's territory, so the Pristina administration didn't want any kind of compromise for one second. It is obvious that they are the only goal – acknowledge our independence at all costs in the entire territory of today's Kosovo and Metohija and that is all we can talk about. The rest was buying time and getting some kind of international reputation, international recognition and nothing more. Unfortunately, they were never prepared for a fundamental compromise. You said I was a centralist. On the contrary, but I don't want to get into that subject today. I would like, first of all, when it comes to public finances, maybe in that sense I am more centralists than others because it has shown myself and with this I have experience and much better experience than everyone else who has been the Prime Minister of this country and I know well how many problems we have had because of irresponsible municipalities and other forms and cities, local self-government in our country, borrowings, not insolvency, not liquidity and everything else. In all other areas, I don't see any problem in doing more serious decentralisation. You spoke of people who are of Serbian origin in Kosovo and Metohija, I don't know what their origins are, these people are called Serbs and there is no difference between Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, a Serb living in Vojvodina, a Serb living in central Serbia or anywhere. In time, we even had a debate within the Bosnian Serb party, simply, people who are from Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are from Republika Srpska, any part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are Serbs, they are nobody's Serbs, neither Croatian Serbs, nor Bosnian Serbs, as I will not say that Tommy Zigmanov is a Serb Croat, because he does not feel like a Serb Croat, but feels like a Croat, and that is why I do not want to accept that there are some Croatian Serbs or Bosnian Serbs or people of Serbian origin in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm skeptical of the idea of Rambujee 2 or some big peace conference. Perhaps most people in Serbia would think it was good and perhaps the government would think it was good, perhaps one day it would happen. I'll tell you why I'm skeptical from the corner of our interests. Don't forget, what happened today will have much more serious consequences. That wasn't over. That was not the case, because at the very least one great force, Russia, is now involved, and because of a citizen who is a Russian citizen, but also because of all other things, I think that there will be many other options in the future and that not a small part of things will change that can be good for us, and that don't have to be good for us, can create many dangers for us. In any case, why do I think Rambuy 2 or some big conference, a gathering, where there would be more different, above all, Western forces, where it would be decided in one day or in a month or in three months, anyway, behind closed doors like the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, I fear that it will bring us into an impossible position and that what we are offered will be very little and that it will be insufficient and that we will not be able to say in any way that it meets the lowest demands of the Serbian side. I am telling you this from the experience I have had in the talks and with EU representatives, otherwise Western countries, what would, and what would be decided on. In all of these, apart from Kosovo's independence, they are particularly interested and are most interested in how to ensure Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity, Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity, and it is therefore important how and how the situation around Kosovo and Metohija ends. So that's why they don't want to give Serbs almost nothing, and they're thinking about what it is they could offer Serbia and Serbia could swallow. I begged them countless times, and I want you to know it, and last time I got an answer from Angela Merkel in Davos, she told me in front of 20 people, if I'm not mistaken, in front of 20 people, she said to me: “Alexandre, I understand what you're saying to me. We can't accept what you're looking for. I have nothing to offer you at this point. “ So that’s what I heard from her, and I was now quoting her words, the woman who is the most powerful woman in Europe, who decides on our European path that you talked about and who I stood up for in spite of my hypocrisy, and I advocate despite my hypocrisy that we are exposed to, and that is the hypocrisy of the type and our political opponents, therefore, my political opponents, probably not yours, who are today not knowing how to explain everything that is happening, because they cannot be with their Serbian people, they say – hey, this is set up by Vukic with someone that they are breaking into the north. How progressive can one’s disease progress, how progressive can one’s pathology progress? I'm not able to understand it, but to understand that even if they came from themselves, that they might sometimes do it with someone. I'm in no condition for anyone who's normal to think that. So we'll be on the European path. We will continue our European path. But that doesn't mean that I won't have the courage to tell them in person about their hypocrisy, to tell them about everything they do in Kosovo and Metohija, to tell them how they treat us when we meet, firstly, we would not be the poorest country today, only to have that in mind, which is amazing, given the fact that the country has received 40 billion EU support, and they have the same number of inhabitants as we do. If we got a tenth of that, don't let me tell you how long we'd be out front. And today we have, and citizens live better than in that country, we have significantly lower costs, we have more and more salaries and pensions. So, we've filled all the economic aks, and they're not hiding it. We do not deliberately open up any additional chapters to stick to Chapter 35 at all times. That's why we don't ask them for those chapters. The only thing we asked them, and I almost literally kneeled around, and then Anna literally, in Brussels, around EUROFER and around steel, etc. And it's obvious there's little we've been able to do. I'm afraid what they're doing will be even harder for our country and for our Chinese friends who run that hardware store. So it's not disputed that this is our strategic path. It's not disputed that we're on that path, but I don't want all of our citizens to have their brains sucked out and we can't even see what's going on and what's happening around us. I'm seriously telling you right now, while we're getting footage of them shooting over our people's heads, they're not answering their phones, because it's a normal action for them. Thank you to those I hear about, from unofficial sources, which, as you can see, are very reliable, because I knew on May 17th that this arrest would follow, I even knew the exact number of people who wanted to be arrested, so I know that some of those Western representatives insisted on them stopping action in Zubin Potok, but that's not enough, none of them will publicly say and officially say, but will say – we support legal and legitimate police action. That, then, to tell you, is something that puts you in a position to talk about protecting our people, and do you have another option? Do we have anything else on the table without acting as irresponsible as everyone acted from 2000 to 2012? And what else do we do? Let your people disappear? Do you think they can do another action like this with 25 other people and another with 25 people, and that's how it can last and that's why nothing changes? There, there's one more thing. He can't, he can't. They understood neither the limits of our people's patience nor the limits of patience and patience and patience of the Serbian state. In doing so, you know that I am responsible enough and serious enough to look at all possible consequences and understand them perfectly. When I spoke of persecuting our living, a hundred, a thousand times I thought about it before I gave such an answer with full certainty and full confidence. As for Vojvodina, northern Serbia, I am very happy that after many years of collapse and stagnation we have succeeded, I wish that, I am sorry that I could not participate in a congregation debate that you started here in this high house, which I could not as someone from the government participate in. I'm only invited around Kosovo like this, when it's extraordinary, otherwise I have no other right to participate. So when it was about Vojvodina, I just wanted to, I needed to say a few things with pride. After decades of collapse, there are many, many, many, many good things going on in Vojvodina. I only opened in Srem, not signed contracts, but opened 20 factories, 20 factories and large plants, only in Srem. I am particularly happy that in Banat, the poorest part of Vojvodina, especially the southern and middle Banat, although there is much more to be done in the north, in Kikinda and other municipalities of northern Banat, which I will open up in a few days to the CTF factory in Pancheva, which in a year we will open the Ling Long factory in Zrenjanin. They're factories that dramatically and drastically change that. When MTJ is opened in Srem or Banat, we still don't know exactly what their location is, it's probably going to be Paz's, then I want to believe that it's going to be a new signal for further accelerated development of Vojvodina. As far as the infrastructure is concerned, as you know, we're finishing up the ypsilon leg. Some of the things that we have discussed and some of the roads that are of regional importance, we have also set out to do, but I believe that with the path of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, or Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac, we will be able to do what is most needed at the moment, to connect with this communication, not with Machva, but also with the highway to Šid and Zagreb to bring together the centre of the southern Bačka district and the largest city in northern Serbia – Novi Sad. At the same time, I think there's a lot more we can do, but I'm really happy with what we did. A man can always resent himself and I do it on a daily basis and I think that what the Serbian government did, what Ana Brnabic did, what all the other ministers did, in the final result is shown as good, and whether it can always be better, whether it can always be more, I believe it can. I think it's people in Vojvodina, in northern Serbia and how well they feel, although I understand your autonomous objections and about the Funding Act and many others, but I don't think that citizens in any way feel special. I think they see an improvement, they see progress, even though I'm quite certain that this progress is not quite satisfactory. Anyway, thank you for your discussion, and for some more details about the possible Rambujee two I would like to tell you in four eyes, not in front of this great audience, not because I consider you in any way close to me or you, but because I think it's okay that as head of a political party, if you're interested, you hear further arguments that I would not want to share with the general public, both domestic and foreign. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: If you tell him, it's as if you were doing the Miles.) Mr. Seselj, if you're interested, I'm willing to tell you the same thing. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your proper discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55218	The word has Milan Lapcevic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55219	Dear President of Parliament, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, at first I would like to express my satisfaction that, finally after more than five years, we have the opportunity to discuss in this high home, the highest representative body in Serbia, the most important state and national, and I would also say the identity issue of our country and our people. At first, I would like to say immediately that I do not understand and support the decisions of certain parliamentary groups from the opposition that are not participating in parliament's work today. I may be able to understand what their decisions are, not to work in sessions on other issues, but in this matter that is most convincingly important to our country and our people there is no valid reason, no explanation why they would not participate in the work. When I say that, too, I think that this topic is so sublime, so important and we need to treat it with the greatest pie, and that we hold on to it as much as possible, when we talk about this issue, of any difficult words, accusations, references, or that we use that topic for inter-party and inter-political accounting. I simply want to believe that all those who were in power, not only in 1999 until today, but before, did everything they could to preserve Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo and to preserve our people and its identity. Did they do it the best way? Of course, time is the best factor that can judge it, and I just want to believe that they did what they knew and knew and could. The continual pressure and international communities supporting the KIM separatists were probably the same as those before 1999 and those who were after 1999, both for you today and for the whole state leadership. It's just morals, will and skill as much as state leadership can handle. Unlike what you said yesterday, I have a different opinion. I wouldn't be willing to be such a defetist, of course, I'm always up for seeing things real, and I wouldn't be a fan of looking down on the thing that everything is lost and that if we don't compromise, we don't make a solution, there's going to be, under the assumption of disaster. Regardless of our difficult situation that has deteriorated for years, I think that all cards or most of the cards are still the most important cards are in the hands of the Serbian state and still much, if not all, depends on us, on our willingness to be determined, to be brave, to be unique in one such attitude, whether and in what degree Kosovo Albanians or climbers, whatever you want us to call them, get full autonomy or something more than that. It's up to us. If we weren't, the international community wouldn't have us, we wouldn't all be pressured if we agreed to something and signed something. So, still, under the allegations, all the deedes in our hands and without our consent, Kosovo can never be an internationally recognised state in the full legal sense, not a member of the UN, nor anything more than that. Three big things have happened in the past few years. It is a Brussels agreement that has defined in six points the Serb community and which has not been implemented. Of course, the Kosovo Albanians don't want it, and I suppose they'll never want to allow it. All that depended on the state of Serbia... (President: Time. Let me finish. All that could have been the concessions of the Serbian state were implemented. I think we should have stepped down in time or pulled those stronger arguments, as I think we had to react more strongly to the formation of the Kosovo army. We have been overcome by the issue of the introduction of taxis in relation to the formation of an army of Kosovo, which is a couple of excellencies, the biggest violation of Resolution 1244 and the greatest feature so-called. Kosovo's statehood. That's where we had to react, and I think we have the argument to fight it, by making this argument more difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55220	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55221	I thank you, dear Mr. Lapchevic. I have no doubt and it seems to me that in such a way that everyone did what they thought was best, some with more attention, some with less, some with greater, some with less commitment, some with more hard work, some just to see that they were doing something, but what I was talking about, which I think is very important, that is to finally see the result. Our positions are different. Milosevic had the best position. DOS had a slightly worse position, but it could still be played. We're literally in a very difficult position today, and I just want to tell you that I'm not a defetist at all. I've never been that way. Those who know me know only that I'm very careful and that when, let's say, elections come, you noticed that unlike other people who say they're going to win safely, I always say it's unsolved, and that we're going to see what the result is going to be. Then you can see by the result that it's not entirely unsolved, it's that it's our convincing victory. So it's always better to be careful, to reduce expectations, and then do a bigger job than work backwards. It's my life's approach. It's my tactics, and I think in politics it's a much better approach than the one that has other people, because the other approach is saying, we're going to be easy, and we're going to be able to have that only in irresponsible and irresponsible people. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about those who did a similar job like me. To add to that, on the contrary, we're going to fight hard, we're going to fight our energy with a lot of enthusiasm, although much less space, or if I may say it in such a way, not only are we fighting in a ring against a fighter who is in three categories above us, but one hand is tied to us. And regardless, we're saying it, but that doesn't mean we're gonna give up the fight or we're gonna give up even if we win. What's important is you said I was talking about disaster. The disaster for us is primarily long and long-term, not short-term character. I wasn't talking about Day D, about Destiny Day, about how everything was going to go down in that one afternoon or afternoon, but I was talking about essentially losing our chances for a accelerated economic and social recovery. That's what primarily generates the progress of a country and the survival of a nation and that's the essential thing. I don't think I've done anything wrong here. As for the formation of the Kosovo army, we reacted very sharply. I personally called on NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg to discuss this with him, and I will remind you NATO Secretary General has condemned the formation of the army and said it is not time to form an army of Kosovo. But it wasn't worth it. We even told them -- people, they break both their own and their legal order, they break their own constitution that they brought themselves, but it didn't interest anyone because the countries of the quinte without exception supported it. When it is supported by America, England, or Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, support all other Western countries, they are no longer interested in anything. What other way could we have prevented that? What other way could we have done such a thing? What do we do? So I brought something that I was doing, getting ready for this session for a few days and not wanting to criticize anyone, just to see what it looked like in 2003. In 2003. It's Djindjic, it's Monday, February 3rd, look... On March 12th, Zoran Djindjic was killed. So Djindjic then says in his address to the Security Council - we are ready, asking us to return to a thousand soldiers and police officers. Of course, no one ever answered him, because they didn't care, because they finished their work by entering their territory in Kosovo and Metohija. On that day, the DSS statement, I will read it to you -- the Democratic Party of Serbia estimated that the invitation of the Serbian prime minister to the NATO Force to enable the return of members of the Yugoslav forces in Kosovo to be a double failure, directed to an irresponsible person, but this is also one of the tricks, which the prime minister aims to earn some nationalist point, not taking into account at all how much harm can be done by irresponsiblely dissipating the passion and awakening of false hopes. Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica's party compared such a move with the policy the previous regime had led towards the former Republika Srpska and Kosovo, i.e. the faceless heroisation of a man whose hands were practically all government. They have not matured the conditions for any serious negotiations on Kosovo's final status. Zinging weapons and willingness to incriminately sacrifice our own army and police, that's all it can do. I only read this to you to see, dear Milan, one thing. It's been 16 years since then. Since this announcement, your 16 years have passed. In those 16 years, we have experienced prosperity in Kosovo and Metohija. For 50%, there are fewer Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In 2008, Kosovo's independence was declared. In 2009, we moved things out of the UN and gave authority to Eulex. In 2010, the International Court of Justice ruled that the illegal secession of Pristina is in fact legitimate and legal in accordance with the positive rules. In 2011, we set a limit on Jarinj and Brnjak, and you expect me to do so, and I understand you, I understand your emotion, that 16 years later, despite the hundreds of times worse and harder conditions, I react as you did not react, not personally, you did not decide, but rather the party you belong to that did not react 16 years ago. In all of this, I'm telling you, don't worry, I'm going to react significantly more strongly. Do you really think he would have retreated at that speed if they had made it quite clear what Belgrade was going to do or not? I want to tell you what I just said to Mr. Chank. The drama is over today, that, people, is not the end of anything. We'll have seven days of good. They will do it again, but our reaction can no longer be the same, and only the invitation of both NATO and the EU and everyone else to listen to us, to help us and not to beat our people. Our reaction will be responsible. We will always try to preserve peace, but we will also preserve certain reserves in our own behaviour and in our own reaction and different kinds of surprises for those who think they can harass and persecute the Serbian people. If that's not enough, if that's not fair, and now I've shown you what it looked like 16 and a half years ago, then I really don't know what's fair. You mentioned another thing I've been hearing lately. I've heard that from many well-intentioned people who say we give them full autonomy. Mr. Lapcevic, none of the Albanians in Kosovo will do it. They wouldn't accept that in 1990. It was Milosevic who tried to offer them. They were all trying to offer it to them. Kostunica and Tadic tried their best to offer it to them. They're not going to do it since 1990, not today when they think the whole civilized and modern world has recognized them. I don't think so. It's a key argument for people. I pray you as God, don't let us deceive our people. I pray as God that we do not deceive our people that it is possible for someone to accept it. He'll never accept that. They gained independence by them. It's over, and we're the ones who interfere with the implementation of the effects of independence, and that's why they're fighting against us. That's why they're fighting us. In our hands it's not too much power, but with what little we have and what little depends on us, believe me, we manage it better than we used to. I just don't want to lie to the people and deceive the people and say that in our hands there's too much power, too much power, and that's why I'm asking them so much that they don't put us in a position that we have to protect our own people, just to take care of it and that's all I can tell you. Thank you again. In their official platform, the last one they adopted, the general now added that paper to me, which I asked the EU for, for six months I begged them not to adopt that platform, six months they told me -- it won't come to their agenda and they lied to me, they adopted that we should recognise an independent Kosovo so that everything else can be discussed. You don't have to throw anything away, I answered everything I could, Mr. Vukadinovic. So, I'm telling you what the real situation is, but if you think Serbia is developing, do you want to give up German factories, French factories, Italian factories? I can't. I can't as president of the state, neither will this woman as Prime Minister. It's impossible to do that, because tomorrow you're going to ask us what the salaries are, what are the pensions, are we going to build bridges and highways? Do you know how many times I've had conversations with generals Vasa Vujic and Vladisavljevic? A hundred times in Brussels, while we're pounding our heads and we can't get anyone to call us, or Serbia to help us solve certain problems, so we're thinking about how and how to react. We must, when we talk about the weight of our position, at the same time push the country to move economically faster than everyone else, and to remain politically and to safeguard the security of our people. This is what I've been saying, Mr. Lapcitza, because I've been, like, countless times, it seems easier for me to do what's hard for someone. Just please put yourself in our position once in a while and think about what you could do and what your repertoire is and what it is that you can do and then you'll see how often you would agree with me, than you could do today. Anyway, thank you for coming to the hearing. I find that very responsible. Because, let me tell you, I didn't give in to those who blackmailed me on the streets of Serbia. I didn't give in to strangers under much more difficult pressure and blackmail. I didn't give in either when they threatened me with a career or a lot of other harder things, which I have many witnesses for. I don't know what to talk about with someone about REM, if someone didn't want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija in the only possible place where they're talking, it's parliament, but I'll always show respect for people who were willing to talk about an important topic, who were willing to put out a completely different attitude, to criticize, to attack, to say anything, but at least I know it was important to them, and at least I know that they have some emotions there. At least I know how much they care about Kosovo and Metohija, and that's the thing I'll always and always be able to respect. So thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55222	The word is Millovan Dracun. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj: What about those 25 arrested? I'll give you your word back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55223	As I received a question from Mr. Seselj, according to our information at the moment of 19 Serbs, Bosniaks and one Albanian from the north are located in southern Mitrovica. So that's our information that 19 of them are in South Mitrovica, we'll see. We had our first tip for multiple faces, but apparently more faces searched houses and apartments, and so far we have 19 confirmation, which doesn't mean that it's the final number. Imagine, from all over the South, as far as we got the information, he got the call, you know, he got the paperwork to answer. From all over the south, and Serbian police officers total 6.8%, 6.9%. Now you see, the same number is the Serbs as the Albanians, which will say 13-1. That's how you do it in democracy, or Serbs are 13 times more criminals than Albanians. But he just said Fatmir Ljamaj and he says this is a terrible blow to crime in the north, and I don't know where and now, how do you react? And what do you say when Fatmir Ljimaj says it's a crime blow? Fatmir Ljimaj, so he knows Dracun, from Klecka, from everything else, he's talking about fighting corruption and crime. What are you gonna do? It's the legitimate representative of theirs that Europe receives, which Americans receive and everyone else. If we have any new information on the arrests, I'll let you know immediately, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55224	Thank you. Ambassador, no one has received a replica before. There's no basis. The president thanked you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55225	Thank you for your opportunity to comment and respond to what the president said. You've noticed that I haven't been back in the past and I haven't made any arguments before 1999 or since 1999. I do not want to involve this topic in inter-party and political disputes, because this topic does not deserve it. Is what the party I belonged to in 2003 or 2007, in the right way, that doesn't mean that if I was a member of a party that I've always agreed with the decisions she's made? I think and I believe that the reaction had to be much sharper, if we had much more strength and arguments to show our teeth, the position would probably be better today. As I now think of a series of bold and rude actions in Pristina, Serbia must react more resolutely and sharply. Then when they created an army of Kosovo, when they introduced taxes, and when they broke countless times some deal from Brussels, we had to react more sharply. If I were you or the Prime Minister, at the same time, I would either introduce reciprocal measures at administrative crossings or close the borders completely. In 24 hours, the taxes would be withdrawn and the problem would be solved. Until the moment you show your teeth and respect your country, they won't take you seriously. Is it a risky move, of course, that every move carries a certain measure of risk, but we also have to today because of Serbs, not only living in KIM, but also because of those living in Montenegro, Bosnia, Macedonia, in all other surrounding countries that have been slaughtered in the worst possible way. We're losing our identity today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55226	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55227	I'll answer one thing, I won't answer the other. We've been considering a lot of things. One measure is the ban on crossing Kosovo's administrative line with central Serbia. And how do we do that, Milan? Let the Serbs go without letting the Albanians go? What about the Roma, the Gorans, what do we do? Let's guess if the guy up there is a loyal citizen or a loyal citizen to someone else. How are we gonna do that? It's very difficult. Don't let me tell you, when you're dividing citizens into one, the other into another column, who and what it reminds you of. I understand what you're trying to say, it's an emotional reaction and it says how worried you are, how much you love your people and your country, but when you make decisions that the state has to stick to and survive in legal traffic and get the support of the international community, then that's where things stand completely different. We've been thinking about other decisions, and it's possible that we're going to apply some of these things, but I think so far with our responsible behavior has just shown ourselves on the international stage as someone who can react civilizedly and reasonably react. What they did today, regardless of whether NATO will give justice as it is a fight against corruption and crime, I wait only to include Rada from the Savawere and all other Serbs who have always spoken only against Serbs in the north, and to explain to me how it is possible that there are 13 times more criminals among Serbs than among Albanians, but as I would say to you, I think it is their biggest mistake so far. They did it at a very wrong moment, they do it because of their inner opportunities, they do it on a warrant from the outside, because some people are nervous, so Serbia would read the letter and put us in line as they think they can. When I tell you this, I'm fully aware of the reality and weight of everything, but I think they've made both political and every other kind of mistake, because I don't think they've united the Serbs more and more strongly on KIM, and tomorrow the Serbs will have their gatherings, and you don't have to explain anything to the Serbs anymore. We used to try and try to tell them that they were as threatened as they were, they used to feel it, they didn't. Now you don't have to tell them anything, now and how well they know what they're up to with the Albanians and what they're up to with the representatives of the international community. When I tell the representatives of the international community, the euphemism for NATO, America and the EU. Thank you again. So whenever you have good intentions just know, we're not that we don't spend it or that we don't do it because we're banned. There is no outsider that will manage Serbia's decisions, but we are doing it because we have some, certainly not other goal, but we have some other method of getting the best results for our people and for our country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55228	Thank you. The word is Millovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55229	Dear Presidents, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I listened carefully yesterday and today what was said in this house, so I will not repeat things. Yesterday, we sent a very strong, convincing message to Albanians and the international community and to our entire Serbian people that we want a cosmetical problem to solve in a peaceful way, that we want a continuation of talks and that we want a historic reconciliation between Serbs and Albanians. Today we received a brutal, violent police-intelligence response from Pristina. They don't want a peaceful solution to the problem, they don't want reconciliation, they don't want to continue the talks, they want to complete the terrible ethnic cleansing they've been conducting in KIM for a long time, and today in northern Kosovo, members of the Kosovo Intelligence Agency have spread the same lies that individuals from part of the political spectrum in central Serbia have spread. So Kosovo Intelligence Agents told the Serbian people today that it was a betrayal, a betrayal from Belgrade, that they should all withdraw and move towards Serbia in fugitives, that children are getting out of school and being sent to Serbia. And, in the future, we are awaiting such propaganda intelligence activities by Albanians. It is today's event that best shows that the Kosovo-Methohic issue is the most important geopolitical challenge, a strategic issue for the future of the Serbian people. It depends on how we resolve this issue depends on the path that the entire Serbian people and the state of Serbia will go in the 21st century. Given that an international factor is deeply involved in KIM events, a cosmetical problem cannot be solved without the international community and its most prominent piece seen in Western countries behind Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. That international aspect, aside from the internal aspect, we need to consider it very well. We need to know what's going on in the world to make the right decision in which we can protect our best interests in solving the cosmetic problem. Have we done this all these years? I guess not. But now it's about time, because after this, there won't be any chance of correcting mistakes. The lack of understanding of what is happening in the world can lead us to the field of not rational political behavior, but heart reaction, but it will not protect our interests. Currently, the international plan is facing a fierce geopolitical conflict between the US, NATO on the one hand and the Russian Federation on the other. Whether we want it or not, we are directly involved in this geopolitical conflict. The cosmetic issue is also being broken over these relations of major forces. We are in an area that is dominated by Euro-Atlantic allies, and that is a fact. We don't like it, but we do. Their capacity to further undermine the interests of the entire Serbian people and the Serbian state is enormous, so strong that we must not allow the situation to happen again as it was in 1999. He doesn't have to do military work, any other part. NATO has created a new kind of iron curtain on the western Russian borders, attracting hundreds of thousands of soldiers, thousands of planes, ships, tanks, armored vehicles. This shows that this geopolitical conflict will be long-term and that we cannot expect any major changes on the international plan that would solve our cosmetic problem. Let's just wait, let's freeze, as some say, this conflict will happen in the world and then the problem will be solved. These aren't realistic expectations. We can't expect from our allies, like the Russian Federation, what they can't truly fulfill. The Russian Federation can, provide us and will provide full support to the UN to prevent the full capacity of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, but even if they are a permanent member of the Security Council, they could not undo the practical steps of Pristina, for example to create the so-called Kosovo Army. So, and the domain of providing assistance by us friendly countries is limited. The biggest impact on the event in Kosovo and Metohija is now on Western countries with which we have more or less relations that are only in the stabilisation phase. It is therefore important that our activities are also directed towards the United States, NATO, the EU, Germany and other countries. These are the countries behind the self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo, but these are the countries through which we can only create a maneuvering space with the support of friendly countries, so that we can reduce the damage ahead. So, expect that the political international order, created and headed by the Russian Federation and China, will be able to say the cosmetic problem is an illusion. This second part of the world can help us in political strengthening, it can help us in economic strengthening, but it can't solve our cosmetical problem. Should we continue with illusory expectations that something tectonic will happen on the international stage, that this will solve our problem? I'm sure we shouldn't be working. When we look at the situation on the inside, we have to ask the question of what the Albanians are doing, because they are one of the parties that is interested in solving this problem in one way or another. They conduct and conduct a terrible brutal ethnic cleansing. It shows their intention to create a large Albanian formation without Serbs. Albanians, with unilateral moves, such as taxis, such as the Trepca statutes, such as this resolution against negotiations allegedly for talks, such as the resolution on alleged genocide, are sending us a message that they do not want the talks to continue. Their strategic goal is what Edi Rama and Hashim Thaci say to declare Kosovo and Albania's unification, but they need an excuse, they need a moment. That moment they want to find us in a reckless, potential reaction by Serbia to provoke us, as they tried today to transfer responsibility to our side. As far as Albanians are concerned, the situation is clear to me. They will not continue the talks, as they believe that the eventual achievement of a compromise would mean a loss, a loss compared to what they had before 2012. We now have a very strange situation. Albanians at KIM will not live in Serbia, Serbia will not recognise a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo under any conditions. How do you resolve that opposite? Is it possible to open the door at all in those two totally opposing attitudes to talk, to reach a compromise solution? The question is, which way is Serbia going? The Serbian people must not allow it to run over time, so that we are not fatally late for the rest of the world. In this world that's changing terribly fast, it's making tremendously fast progress, we don't have the right to bring generations into new war conflicts. It is our responsibility to solve the cosmetic problem in a peaceful, sustainable way, not that the generations that come or who are already there put on their uniforms again and go to war again. I know what war is, I've seen it, many of you have seen it. War is a terrible death. War is blood, war is strong. We have to do everything to avoid war, and Albanians keep pushing us into war. We must not close the door for negotiations at any cost, despite the Albanians' efforts to force us to take such a step. Serbia must build peace, although we do not have a partner in Pristina for it. But the question is whether we will put a possible solution to the cosmetic issue, for the cosmetic problem, so that the expected loss brings profit to the entire Serbian people in the coming period or introduces us to new losses. Addressing the cosmetic problem will certainly reflect, for example, the position of Republika Srpska. In the next period, we must not allow responsibility for the non-continuing talks of Albanians to move on to us, and therefore we should insist on continuing the process of normalisation and reaching a compromise solution, while parallelly strengthening our people in Kosovo and Metohija. In short, I would like to propose, at the very end, one of my visions of the framework for resolving the cosmetic problem. First, the recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo is not a solution, it is excluded. Secondly, negotiations are the only way to reach a solution, a compromise solution. Third, there is no solution based on the new reality Pristina is trying to introduce. It's taxes, it's so-called. Army, violence, change of ethnic structure. Fourthly, we want a peaceful, long-term sustainable, compromise solution for Kosovo and Metohija status. Fifthly, the solution must be politic because such a situation is in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs live compactly in the north, in Kosovo Pomoravlje, in other areas, Albanians live compactly in most parts south of Ibra and therefore the solution must be politic. The solution is not in the unification of Kosovo and Albania. So the solution must mean a firm mechanism of protection against the creation of a great Albania. The solution is necessary to enable the historic reconciliation of Serbs and Albanians and to open the door to European integration of the region. In the end, let me make one personal point. The Serbian people must redefine their national strategy at the beginning of the 21st century. Whether our national strategy will be based on the Belgrade-Pristina line, when I say Pristina, I mean not solving the cosmetic problem, or in the coming period we will force the Belgrade-Banjaluk line. I think there's still enough courage to do that, to think about it, to express our views openly, and that everyone knows what they can expect from us. (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. ) The basic culture of communication among MPs states that there is no discarding, but you know what, those who earn and hold heroic speeches in Belgrade for the defence of Kosovo, the difference between me and them is that I have been decorated by a medal of courage since my country in 1999, because I was where they were nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55230	Thank you. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55231	Ladies and gentlemen, we heard from this report something that is generally known, which is that Serbia is between sweet lies and cruel truths, or bitter truths. And that's true. That was well apostrophe for the president of the state. Serbia has been between a sweet lie and a bitter truth for a long time. Let's just think about it, and Mr. Wolfie showed here chronologically how that sweet lie started. Since Resolution 1244, which the president is also trying to bear some responsibility for, although objectively there is neither a place nor a reason for his personal or any responsibility for any Serbian radical, but since then the sweet lie has begun. The harsh reality soon arrived by bringing the furniture headed by Vojislav Kostunica to power. The government's task was to prepare the ground literally to break up the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a union of the two republics of Serbia-Montenegro, to prepare the ground for what was happening in the later period. When they used the complete set led by Vojislav Kostunica, they threw them as toilet paper and brought Boris Tadic. What was his mission? The furniture moved the talks on Kosovo and Metohija and the United Nations Security Council to the European Union. As the rule requires, it is always the Americans or the EU that finds suitable personalities, i.e. appropriate political parties, who will accept for the sake of their own authority or some other use to do everything, that is to say, a new set has come up with the task of changing the Constitution. Serbia's constitution is an obstacle to everything the Americans and the European Union have imagined to do in Serbia and there is a completely clear situation. Here, Mr. Vukic, the president of the state, asked one key question - is there an alternative? We Serbian radicals, with our participation in this debate, have made it clear by our political action for many years that as state-run foreigners, we care and how to resolve the issue, that is, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, the issue of Serbia and all of us living in Serbia, and that is absolutely clear. Today's presence in this number and the number of speakers makes it clear that we are interested in solutions. What's the alternative? There's an alternative. We can no longer live in this sweet lie that Europe has no alternative and that all because of the date when we will open chapters and be eventually admitted into the European Union should be sacrificed. The alternative to Europe is the alliance with Russia, Belarus, it is an alternative. They're not emotions, and Mr. Wolf knows that. He equally represented these attitudes as all of us Serbian radicals. It's something that's rational. Economic interests, Serbia's security interests are on the side where Russia is and there is no dilemma. But what I would point out among other things is that Serbia, the Serbian government, Mr. Vukic, must be ready for future challenges. Big challenges will be big earthquakes and even more pressures. Preparation must be made within the Serbian government, which means the reconstruction of the Serbian government. You can't go into this kind of uncertainty, uncertainty, and suffer this kind of pressure with government members who, in their opinion, go to American and other embassies. That's what you're living in, Mr. Vukic, that's what you think Zorana Mihajlovic will always be there for you. They will, Mr. Wolf, until you're all alone, and you're all alone in advocating this idea. We're talking to you from the best intentions. And she's not alone, you know that better than we do as soon as possible. Secondly, because of these internal pressures, you must be the most responsible person in this Serbia to invite all patriotic forces and all patriotic parties to talk, to see about forming a joint government, you must think about it. It's politically thoughtful and cunning. If anyone will accept it, it's his decision, the matter of his decision, but it's up to you to show that kind of width. What Vojislav Seselj told you in front of the SRS, you must affirm the work of the institutions and the government and parliament and how to put it first when it comes to resolving the issues of Kosovo and Metohija. It's something that's inevitable. Thank you. 1 and how to put it first when it comes to resolving Kosovo and Metohija issues. It's something that's inevitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55232	Thank you. The president asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55233	As for the change in the Constitution that you spoke of and presented as a major obstacle and in the furnitures that have been chosen, I think we've been chosen by the will of the people, not any Western forces. If it were different, I'm sure none of these people would be in this place, I certainly wouldn't. I forgot to tell Mr. Lapčević earlier, but I'll say, Milorad, to you now. Right follows the facts, not the other way around, and that's one of the basic rules that learns, unfortunately, the facts don't apply to us. And as for the Constitution, and what kind of dam was our constitution, what was our obstacle to everything that happened in 2008? Not at all. We are left to be engrossed and to enjoy it, sometimes even to me amazing, sweet, pretending that we don't know what happened in Kosovo and Metohija, which we say is exactly the same as it was 11 years ago, and it's exactly the same as it was 19 years ago. No, it's much harder, it's much worse for us. In doing so, I am not a defetist, and I do not want to tell anyone, and I want to ask for excuses for which someone will recognise Kosovo or that someone will give them something, but I am telling you this, because the Constitution cannot already be more powerful in Serbia, much greater in our unity, much better in our economy to be the reason for our progress and to increase the chance to preserve what can be preserved in Kosovo and Metohija. As for the American Embassy and other embassies, you know of course I can't say all the things I know, and I've tried to make sure that the information I have never in any way was misused. Where I am grateful to our security services, i.e. that they have tried always and in every way to preserve and protect Serbia's independence. In line with this, I understand that I have many different knowledge of the impact of different factors on our political scene and on the political scene of the region. Accordingly, I have tried as party president, not only as president of the Republic who won most of the votes in the Republic of Serbia, to propose people who will have their integrity and authority and who will not depend on the will of any embassy. This applies to the mentioned Mrs Mihailovic, as well as to everyone else. Anything, or ever, and I had different kinds of doubts about some people if it turned out to me that someone was in an agent relationship with any foreign country, not just with the United States, but with Russia, Germany, France, Great Britain, any other country, those people would never have my support again. And that's the thing I guarantee you, but not to be based on the words of the tellers, and on the chapraisals because you can't work for two countries. You can only work for one country. You can love countries as much as you want, but if you do, you can only work for one country. You can't work for more countries. (Vojislav Seselj: Has Zorana been checked now? ) I have confidence in Zorana Mihailovic, and those in whom I do not trust you will see after the next elections and it seems to me that I will make it clearer to you then. Thank you again, and as for... (Vojislav Seselj: So there are no new choices? The election is quick. The election is soon, Mr. Seselj. Sure, we got into the election year a long time ago. One more thing I said, if Anna suggested a reconstruction she'd have my support, this was just my thinking. And as the alliance Serbia needs to make, Serbia has very good and friendly relations with both Russia and Belarus, honestly, good ones. I had more meetings with President Putin and President Lukashenko than all Serbian leaders would have said together, but Serbia is an independent country. He will continue to build, to strengthen these relations, to make them even closer. We can do more to be closer to both the Russians and Belarusians, but Serbia is on a European path. That's the thing I say in every place I don't want to give up. If we had to give up such a policy, it would be time for us to go to the elections and offer government and government to some other people with some other policy. And thank you for coming to Parliament, for respecting Parliament and respecting the subject we are talking about. This also speaks of your relationship, not only with Kosovo and Metohija, but also with regard to the most important Serbian issues and which do not even have to when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija to concern only Kosovo and Metohija. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55234	Ljiljana Mihajlović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55235	Thank you. Dear President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen, the attack of terrorists in northern Kosovo is certainly linked to this session of parliament. Living against Serbs is a demonstration of force, or force, to this parliament, means to Serbia as a whole. They also show that they are not interested in negotiations in Brussels. On the other hand, the current government of the Republic of Serbia wants to come to an urgent process through negotiations. However, it concerns that this urgency fully coincides with the speed required by the EU and America. There's a feeling that it's the same job that's going on on two tracks, on the outside and on the inside. As an excuse for this haste we heard it yesterday is that we have lost our historic chance and that we can only get carried away that Kosovo is ours. No Serb state that had jurisdiction over this part of our territory had a peaceful rule. There was always rebellion, Arnatu and, of course, their crimes, so no government thought of giving up Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to a frozen conflict, we're neither the first nor the only ones who have something like that on their territory. For example, for decades Spain has been exposed to the terrorism of the basketball ETA, so it has not given up its territory. And maybe Angeli Merkel is more important because of Spain to reach some agreement with the Shiptars that will end with international recognition. We heard yesterday that there would be no negotiations until the fees were lifted, if they were lifted where our guarantee was that they would not be reintroduced the day after the negotiations. A community of Serb municipalities was also signed, so nothing, just new arrests and mistreatment of Serbs. What, then, is the meaning of these and such negotiations? And on the legal side, they're very harmful, they're completely out of the law of Resolution 1244. If negotiations were to take place following the implementation of the points of this Resolution, it would be both legal and morally acceptable, this is how we ourselves who are calling for violations of international norms and rights deny a legally applicable UN act. What's the rush? Even if Kosovo's independence is signed today, Kosovo Serbs will continue to be arrested, pressures on Serbia will continue. I'm sure they won't be stopped by any concession. Who says the next negotiations will not be conducted in the Vojvodina or in the Rasko region. The situation in the Raška area is peaceful, we heard yesterday, but tomorrow the West can seek peaceful negotiations on autonomy and that part of Serbia, without previous demonstrations or violence at all. Does anyone in this room have the illusion that no matter what Serbia does, it will ease the pressure on the Republika Srpska? Will it be better for Serbs in Montenegro or Croatia? That's why negotiations are too high. So far, we Pristina have turned the other cheek after every slap, and that is understood as a weakness, not as a reasonable attitude. Insisting on the West to continue negotiations has only one goal, to force Serbia to recognise Kosovo's independence. It was also done with the Dayton Agreement in BiH that had been rewritten several times, they threatened until some of the Serbian leaders gave in and put their signatures on. And today they say, you signed yourself now respect signed. It's time for a different approach. So Kosovo and Metohija must remain in Serbia forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55236	Thank you. The word is made by President Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55237	Just a few words. You said no government ever thought to give up Kim. It's not. Many, just swearing that KIM is the heart of Serbia, have contributed to KIM, in its good work, and de facto is not under our control. You have repeatedly asked the question of what is the point of the negotiations? I think that even when you're at war with anyone, you always have to end things with negotiations, conversations, that it's better to talk for 1,000 days than one day to fight. I don't know what else to do but negotiate. I guess that's what our job is all about. The point of making a normal life possible and there's no conflict, and I didn't understand it at all, I figured it all out, these people would like to say, and it sounds nice and it just doesn't have much to do with reality, but my question is, uh, what's the alternative? We don't have negotiations. What are we doing then? What are we doing? Do you think someone retired because they wanted to back off, didn't want to stay in northern Kosovo today? A lot of conversations and a lot of diplomacy, a lot of what we've been doing, was needed to fight for that little thing, too. A little something, and we're not happy about it. What we talked about once changed the circumstances, we don't have any problems in Vojvodina, or in the Ra's area, Sandzak, whatever you want to call it. No problem. There's no capacity to cause trouble. These problems can be short-term at the level of incidents and nothing more. (Vojislava Seselj: Growth at Rasim's capacity. What I think is important is that we try to, that's my appeal for ordinary people, I know that you count well, and as I said we're in the election year, and that Serbs like to hear what you say. I only appeal to people to understand that politics is a skill that is possible, and not impossible, and I don't want to do it today or in the future to say that we're going to make things that are impossible to do. So, the ones you said you never, I guess, transferred to us that we wanted to hand over Kosovo, unlike those before us, who didn't want to do it, so that happened in their time, for their act, and that didn't happen today. It finally happened in 2008, and it happened at a time when we participated in 1999 to be defeated by the great NATO force. Do you really think it's possible to lose everything and not pay the price? Do you think it was possible for Hungary not to pay the price after World War I? Those who were most powerful consider it, and it is evident that we lost in that conflict. There was no way we could face them more seriously. How do you think it's possible that everything stays the same? How do you think nothing's changed? It's just a lie, that's impossible. Not because I'm rooting for them, on the contrary, I'm the one who first introduced NATO aggression markings, which he called NATO aggression, not NATO by campaigning and NATO bombing, which marks it every year. But, how can I tell you, people, I'm just asking you with respect and for good will and patriotic feelings, for a little bit, maybe a little more relativity nothing more. Will the pressures on the Republika Srpska stop? He won't. It will be even harder on both Serbia and Serbia. But what now? The choice is to fight or give up everything? (Vojislav Seselj: To give up the EU, it changes everything. ) Giving up, I'm going to get into this now that Mr. Seselj has cast his resignation on the EU is crucial. Just keep one thing in mind, that now we're talking like people without emotion, like people who could, are or who could run the country someday. Do you really think that's possible? Do you really think... (Vojislav Seselj: Without emotion can only be a zombie, a man cannot. )......................................................................................................... I was talking about Mr. Seselj, and I wasn't talking about people without emotion. Do you really think it's possible that we have 3.5 billion investments, it wasn't enough for us last year and we weren't satisfied with it without being on the European path? Do you think that's possible? I'll tell you it's not possible that whoever says it is, he's not telling the truth. And most of those investments just came from the EU. So, do I always enjoy talking to them, of course not. Do I like this hypocrisy about fighting crime and corruption in the north? Of course I don't like it. But when we can have an incomparably richer country, when we can manage our own resources differently, when our public finances can remain orderly and intact, then we will be able to talk more seriously about such a matter. At this point we're so dependent on a few investors to buy bonds for a "rollover", so is Franklin Templeton American or is he a breast bank, so German people, they tried it once before the elections, when Sinisha? In 2017, I think. In 2017, they tried to challenge a part of those investors who retired and refused to participate in the purchase of bonds. Thanks to all the reforms and strengths and strengths of public finances, which were already recovered at that time, we managed to avoid major inflation and everything else. We depend on them a lot. It's impossible for that to happen. That would be bad for our country. Our country has to live, we have to think about the future, and I don't want to talk about whether, I don't know, I don't know at the World Cup in football, whether my emotions are on the side of Russia or Croatia, because I didn't hide it at the time. Are my emotions on this side or that side? Who we buy weapons from, who we co-operate with, who we have this intimate relationship with, who we have a less intimate relationship with. But people let it exist, let there be rational thinking, a rational approach, which tells you that you have to act like it and act on that thin wire, you go as far as possible so that Serbia can exist and Serbia can survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55238	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidential Republic, you have a habit of often saying that the Serb people who slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall are a people who might agree with you here. A number of people in Serbia's leadership when the Berlin Wall was torn down thought it could preserve communism in Yugoslavia at a time when it ceased to exist on the historic stage. But today, we are in danger of sleeping over the EU's collapse at a time when, for the first time in history, one Member State leaves the EU, at a time when the best result in the elections in the largest European countries is precisely the Eurosceptic parties and parties who want to reform the EU and do not want to see it as one such organisation as it is today, and for 19 years we have been constantly negotiating EU membership, where we are stuck, in a certain infinity of new conditions, always new obligations, and for that we have not received absolutely anything, we are even repeatedly and punished. The first was, deliver all Serbs to The Hague tribunal, so now meet the obligations regarding KIM, i.e. Do something called normalisation, which is a term that doesn't exist anywhere and nobody knows what it means, but a euphemism to recognise Kosovo's independence. We were promised a community of Serb municipalities, it was signed by the government. That's almost out of the question. We were promised that ROSU would not go north to Kosovo, we saw what happened this morning. We are promised there will be no such thing as the Kosovo army, the Kosovo army exists. Even so, to make the Serbian people feel even more threatened in Kosovo and Metohija, 100% tax has been introduced, and we tolerate all this in the hope that one day we will join the EU. It's our basic problem that generates all the other problems. The argument that if we don't solve the Kosovo problem will be two or three million less, and Albanians will be three million more, I don't understand. I don't understand the interrelationship between Kosovo and Natalie in Serbia. If you have identified the problem that clearly exists, which is the mortality rate in Serbia, negative natural growth, then we should work on it and be a state strategy to change such a trend, not to think if we get rid of a certain part of our territory that children will suddenly start to be born and flowers to bloom. You said yesterday that Zoran Djindjic at a time when he was Prime Minister said that only lies and lies came from the international community and that was in 2003. If you believe that and if that is true, do you think that today is different after 16 years and all that has been happening to us in the Balkans with our people, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, Republika Srpska Krajina. Can we rely on someone in the EU? Can we have negotiations on Kosovo's problem with someone who is not objective, what is the EU like? The European Union, which has recognised Kosovo's independence as such. Most of these countries have recognised Kosovo's independence, honour of exceptions, but it treats Kosovo as a state, regardless of formal recognition. You say there's no reaction when Haradinaj and Thaci threaten you with war. What do you think would be the reaction if the Serbs threatened with war on the Cypriots in Kosovo? We'd be bombed again, and that's an indicator of who's objective in that dialogue, Mr. Wolf. At the beginning of your presentation yesterday you quoted Peter the Second Petrovic Negos. I'll remind you, He also said that time was masterly solved. Our only need for resolving Kosovo's problem can be membership, i.e. Progress in EU membership negotiations. If we are not sure that we can solve this problem in our favour, we should leave it to someone who will be wiser, more capable, and smarter and in better circumstances will be able to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, not to gamble our territory because of imaginary EU membership. Time works for us. The geopolitical circumstances are such that there is no longer just one hegemon in the world, one force that wonders about everything, long ago we are living in a world that needs consensus to make some decisions. I remind you that in 2015, the United States wanted to invade Syria, and that the Russian president and the Russian Federation had prevented it. It couldn't have been imagined in 1999, and today it can. Circumstances change, we need to wait, we need to stay out of the way, and we need to reconsider our views on the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55240	Thank you. The word is made by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55241	We differ in our views on election results in the EU and different analyses. Maybe you're right. I've seen the results differently. For me, it is no surprise that the Eurosceptic parties are fighting for a better position of their countries in the EU rather than outside the EU. That's what I can say about Matthew Salvini, who I spoke to in Rome only 15 days ago, I can even say that about Marin Le Pen and many other people I know in Europe. For me, it is surprised by these European elections that a large number of not-right-oriented or anti-European parties, but anti-systemic parties from some countries have also received parties that have inherited strange topics and received a flight based on topics raised by 16-year-olds believe or not, therefore, from climate change and beyond, that "green" get so many votes in Germany, that the party "pirates" gets so many votes in the Czech Republic, that in Romania the liberals get more than 20%, and almost incredible things have happened. This second one was no longer a big surprise. I don't think the EU will fail. I think we have good analyses, but making decisions in the EU will be much more difficult and more complicated, especially making decisions concerning Serbia, concerning the Balkans and concerning the part of Europe that is not under their direct jurisdiction. I also want to say that I believe that you said that I may have slept over the Berlin Wall, I accept, but that even now we're going to sleep through this part, I think if someone didn't sleep over then Serbia didn't sleep over. Serbia turned on time and well understanding the growing strength of the NKK, the closest relations of all European countries we have with the NKK, absolutely the closest, and that is one of the things that we rarely resent both in Brussels and in other centres of European power. (Vojislav Seselj: When are they blackmailing you and saying either China or us? You don't talk to me, Mr. Seselj, as you know in blackmail language and you won't blackmail me that way, because I'm this, when they ask me... I understood, that's why I answered you, Mr. Seselj, because even when I was being blackmailed or Seselj in The Hague and sanctioned, I knew what my answer would be whether you were a political opponent or not. [[Vojislav Seselj: Those who applaud did not understand the question.]] Also, you said, you know how careful I am, how careful I am and how hard I try to protect our national and state interests, but I understand politics and I don't mind anything. As far as the Kosovo army is concerned, we have not tolerated anything concerning the Kosovo army, they have made it with the help of five states, with the help of the Quinta members. And what could we have done? What do we do? What do we do about it, except make our own stronger army and not allow their army to endanger the Serbs at any time? What else do we do? That's what's in our hands and we're doing it better than everyone else has done in the past I don't know how many decades. I know that people know that, there's a lot of people in the SPS here and they won't, respecting their emotions and knowing what it was like with the early 1990s and mid-'90s, you know how many things we didn't have today, and we just got them in the last three years. But for that you need money, for that you need stable public finances, for that you need stability in the country, for that you need a lot of difficult economic measures. That's what we were doing and we needed a European way to do it. Among other things, as far as relations with Russia are concerned, I just want to say one thing to you, I really have no intention of making any excuse for anything. I am the only man in this country who, after 105 years, not from Boris Jeljeczyn but from Vladimir Putin, won the Order of Alexander Nevsky. So, after 105 years. He didn't personally put Putin on my lapel because I don't understand Russia or I don't like Russians. Just above all else, even in front of very dear Russia, I put Serbia, I was elected president of Serbia, I run the Serbian interests, the interests of our country, the citizens of Serbia, and that's what I was chosen for, and it's not just my constitutional oath, it's my essential obligation. On the other hand, you said that if we get rid of part of the territory, flowers will start to bloom. That's how I understood. So he won't flower flowers, he won't. I even when we did these analyses, the most professional people were doing analyses, they could list you among them, and even the head of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, we worked with several elements, and the level of labour and fertility, the mortality rate, the expected labour force, immigration movements, immigration movements, everything else, how this is calculated in statistics. We've been expecting, we've made weights, we've done very seriously, we've fenced ourselves, we've made numbers from up to. And we haven't said for a second that flowers will bloom. On the contrary, we said, in the best situation for us, we will lose 1,200,000 inhabitants, 1,217,000 residents by the year 2060. It's the best situation for us. (Vojislav Seselj: But all these estimates are inconclusive. Statistics have nothing to do with reality. Well, I think these things are very real, because that's the way we use them. The cohort of the quantitative method is also calculated by many other things in the Serbian economy, so it turns out that we did it successfully. Here, first of all, follow the trend of whether you're going to miss by 0.01, whether from 1.46, you're going to jump to 1.85 or not, but you're going to be 1.83, more than that we're going to miss. It's like when you estimate growth. He might surprise something. Surprises us, doesn't run the refinery and it drops 0.3%. We're surprised by the Albanians' taxes, we're down 0.3% of GDP growth. But we always estimate after three months on each quarter what are the measures we need to make, what is what we can do, what is that we can't do in plus minus zero, two, plus minus zero, three we can always estimate that. It's easier for us here. People's habits change the slowest. It's much easier for us to estimate, but today we have a base of fertility that's shrinking because people are leaving our country. And that's one of the reasons political why it's better to have a compromise solution than not to have one. But I know that we don't love and I don't accuse anyone, we don't like to look 100 years ahead, as the Chinese do, because it's understandable to us, our life, what happens after that, doesn't matter. Basically, we're losing a lot of things and we're in a very difficult situation. Is it easier to say that one hegemon no longer exists? It's true, and we first noticed it, it's quite true. The world is no longer as universal as it used to be, it's multipolar today. I'd divide it into four powers in different areas. These are: the United States, the People's Republic of China, then, the EU, and as the most powerful, most dominant EU country in Germany, you can also use as a euphemism and you don't have to, I don't care, and the fourth is the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation has a very powerful military force, has a highly powerful political leader, much stronger than the country's economic power. The European Union has the highest standard of living, a strong economy, but not as potent as both Chinese and American and lagging behind in the development of artificial intelligence and robotic industry compared to the People's Republic of China and the United States, but the EU has received something that America has not completely lost in the meantime, and that is what they call a beacon of democracy, that all people see living in Europe, that they would like to live like that, in this type of society, etc. It's the strength of Europe. The power of America remains the strong, growing economy, the world's most powerful economy. What's their problem today and what Trump decided to attack, whether it's right or wrong, we'll see, I think it's going to be hard to win, very hard, but he's a problem-detecting genius, a lot of people underestimate him, he generally detects problems. If it's the best way to attack them, that's another thing. He realized that China is in advantage of the development of artificial intelligence and that unless it prevents it now, he will never be able to prevent in the future. And that's why they're trying to do it today. Of course, America is still the greatest and strongest military force, but in that relationship with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, it's the same army force, because everyone can destroy the other one and there's no good result. As far as the People's Republic of China is concerned, it is a force that is in the largest increase, a force that will certainly be a country with the highest GDP in 27 years, not per capita, but a total GDP, a country that is ahead in the development of artificial intelligence, a country that is hungry, not in terms of being, but hungry success and hungry to return to the number one world power. China is not the world's number one force just because it missed the first industrial revolution. Until then, China was the number one force in the world, the unquestionable number one force in the world. They missed the first industrial revolution. Now they've decided to win everything and end the fourth industrial revolution by taking over the world's leadership again. It's all true, it's just a question for all of us, except that we need to use friendships and good relationships with all of them, that we know all of this and benefit from it and ask them for support and help in Serbia, and what else can we do more than this? Will something about Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia change for us? I'm afraid not much, and I'm afraid it's putting ourselves in the position of someone who's waiting for something they'll never wait for. I think that we have really acted responsibly and respect your position that you are absolutely against the EU, but here I am trying to show you that our position is more rational, that it is responsible, that it is serious and that it is based on facts, rather than on the right for you to have a different attitude, that you have a different opinion and that you have a different policy. I'm sorry if I delayed the speech. It seems to me that this is also a good way to show how we can express different views in democratic dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55242	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55243	You, Mr. Vukic, in your address yesterday united everything we have listened to for months at your conferences, sweet lies and bitter truths that you will try to lose as much as possible in Kosovo and Metohija, and then you have asked one more question – are we going to stick to our own fantasies? Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Vukic, can't be any fantasy. It is a constitutional formulation that you have to stick to and when you think about getting at least, to lose at least, to get the most, you have to make sure that everything we lose or get has to be within the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and within the AP KIM as part of Serbia. You talked about demographic movements in KIM, about how people move out, how Serbs move out with KIM, and how in other parts of Serbia, things are different. Does that mean now wherever the Serbs move from, we should leave these territories? Well, unfortunately, Serbs are moving from both Negotina and Serbia's Montenegro, from Montenegro, from Tutina, from Cecnje, from hundreds of cities. Well, does that mean we should give up those parts of Serbia because it's hard to live there, so people move out of there? You said in 2100 there would be twice as many of us. If I understand, did you mean all of Serbia or maybe even Kim? But whatever. If someone had thought to give up KIM, to admit false Kosovo, we would not be there in 2020. We don't think you're going to dare do anything like that, but we have to remind you of that, too. You had one of these populist parts when you were talking about how we couldn't be more in the way of the Ostroga Boys, and then you reminded us that they took Krka, Krupa, Ostrog. You say we kept quiet. We didn't shut up, Mr. Wolfie. You didn't shut up either, you were a Serbian radical back then. She kept her mouth shut. Now don't you, when you're in power, feel the kidnapping of the Virgin of Ljeviška, Decan, Gracanica and other monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija. If the government is silent now, then they will come after Zich, and by Ljubostin, and by the Sopocans, and then the temple of the Holy Sava on the Wizard will not be safe. Mr. Wolfie, you're saying we don't have a head to lose and we don't have kids to throw away. Absolutely correct, no one is normal until the war. You keep stressing - you'll do anything to keep the peace. Do everything you can to preserve peace, but make sure you do everything possible to preserve the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. It's a priority of all priorities. You keep saying that we have to fight to get something, that we don't know exactly what ours is. We know, Mr. Vukic, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has defined -- Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the state has no right to defetism. You have a constitution. You have Resolution 1244. You have Russia ready to help, just stop these EU integrations and you'll see we'll get better. I guess after Sunday's election, you realize that this was the last blow to globalism. You need to turn around where we belong. You, Mr. Wolf, finished the sentence of Pekic yesterday. You should love your children's land, not your grandfather's. It's not a good comparison for you, because it's hard for children to have land if they don't inherit it from their grandfathers. Bad kids sell their grandfathers. Mr. Wolf, I will end my debate with Him - everyone is born to die once and for all, honor and shame live forever. We sincerely want you to define yourself for honor and for your sake and for Serbia's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55244	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukitch, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55245	Dear People's MPs, I will try to speak in a different way and not just answer to the honourable People's MP. Not for days, weeks and years, but I've been listening, although we've recovered the country from bankruptcy, although they can't tell me that anywhere, anywhere I've stolen anything, and I'm not talking about you here, because I haven't, they lied about my family members, so they shut up, because I guess you can lie once or 100 times, but you can't see after a year or two whether you're telling the truth or not. Lately, the only thing I've been hearing is, it's one thing that ends with Kosovo, you take the pain off our backs and you're guilty if you don't, because they don't like the part where you say you're going to help our people and you're going to protect them and you have other people who, when they don't tell you directly, are trying to draw you that you're wicked, how you're going to betray our Kosovo and Metohija, our people in Kosovo and Metohija, how you're going to put yourself in the history of the worst, because I guess even those who helped us have a de facto, they didn't agree to it, I don't know what they agreed to. You are calling me to the Constitution today, everyone, even those who were in power at the time are calling me to respect the Constitution, and in 2008, when the Constitution was to be implemented into action, the Constitution did not even remember and they let them form an independent Kosovo, so-called. Yesterday, coming to the National Assembly for the first time, I had a chance to see what it was like to be prevented from coming and talking to the representatives of the people, when someone's trying to chase you, wanting to fight you, I don't know what it is. I've read a lot of books about fascism, Nazism, and I haven't read anything about similar cases, that they existed anywhere. I've read a lot of books. Maybe a few people in this room have read so many books from that area. I understood a lot that could happen in the world, but I didn't experience that kind of fascist savagery. I've put up with it all, and I've always responded in a decent and civilized way. All this time, all these seven years, I haven't been on a vacation in over four days, not one year. I fought, and I tried to get the country out of a bad state, and I tried to work hard and faithfully. I'm one of the ones who doesn't get up from this chair when she sits down, for me there's no toilet, no bed, no rest, no phone conversation with anyone in the world to leave you. I'm sitting from morning till night, until it's over. And yesterday, and today, and every time, and every day in the workplace. I fought all the time for Serbia that I swore allegiance to, not any other country. I was the only one, I was the only one who could stand up to strangers when they made solutions against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I was the only one, Verice, and today I am the only one who has not delivered any of the Serbs to The Hague tribunal, neither you nor Jojic nor Seselj nor anyone else. I don't need gratitude for that, and none of you get me wrong, that's what I've been doing for Serbia. [[Applause]] What they're doing to you, they're not doing to you, they're doing to humiliate all of Serbia and to show that they can do whatever they want at any moment, what they can think of and how they can think of it. There's something else. You said you mentioned it, we didn't shut up. We didn't shut up. That's right. Those who were in power kept silent. I'm not talking today, but I'm fighting with what little opportunity we have, with one hand in the ring while the other one's tied up and we can't move. And so, while someone's hitting you while you're bleeding, I'm thinking of turning myself in, rather than thinking we're fighting. As you can see, in these seven years until now, not full of seven years, there has been no disaster as it has been since the 1990s, the first seven years, and as it has been since 2000, the first seven years, and no pogroms over our people in Kosovo and Metohija, nor recognition of Kosovo's independence. It cannot be independent of Kosovo three times. They declared it in 2008 and all the great powers of the West accepted it as an independent state in 2008. You mentioned the temple of St. Sava. The temple of the Holy Sava stands like a postcard to us. If we hadn't invested 30m euros, it would never have ended. Only today when we have money, when we have a successful economy, so we can invest money will this temple, which is both a symbol for the Serbs, but an important and cultural and tourist facility for all of us. You were talking about the need to protect people. That's okay, you say, but the most important thing is to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity. Agreed. What kind of authority do we have in the Cavalry? The power consists of three basic elements. We don't have any of those three elements under our control. No territory, no people, no monopoly of physical coercion. None of the three basic elements that represent some kind of power we don't have. Do you know how many Serbs live at the moment? Zero. Zero as well as the Globe, as well as the Dry River. Zero. This does not mean that every place where zero Serbs live should not belong to our country, but I am just telling you that you will not find any man who will say that he lives in Serbia. Today, when people listen to Suleiman Ugljanin, they are ashamed to listen to him and those who have to pat him for partying, they are ashamed to listen to him. They know they live in Serbia and they are waiting for the support and assistance of their country of Serbia. They whistled at me in New Market when he was Erdogan. Erdogan's wallpaper, my whistle. When I started talking and when I said, despite the whistles -- people, I don't know what to tell you, but I respect our friend Erdogan, but that highway will get the state of Serbia here. People are starting to tap. People understand what life is. I just think that when you talk about defetism, and you know me well, you know that I've never been a defectist, that I'm not going to be, but I'm going to fight for our country. And I didn't tell you all this because I made something, because there are secret deals, because there's something going to happen. I told you today – it will be much harder to talk to Serbia from today, than it has been until today. Much harder in every way. That's not why I'm happy. And I'm not happy about it at all. I'm not planning on doing any of this, I'm just pointing to what is really a situation in Kosovo and Metohija and nothing more than that. Don't live in conspiracy theories about how someone made a deal with someone, so it's just waiting for the day when it'll reveal it to someone. It's not gonna happen. I brought it here to show you, just to see, people. I've got a file full of it. The only person being attacked in all the Pristina media today, yesterday, the day before, ten days ago, one single man, is me. No one else did. What bothers them when I've made arrangements with them, when I've given them everything in their hands? Can someone explain it to me rationally and logically? No one seems to be able to explain it to me. No one else. They don't mention anyone else. When ours was, of course, the largest event in the last 20 years in the territory of all Serbia, in Belgrade, there was no news, and when 1,000 or 1,500 newspapers were gathered. Wolfie's done. They look forward to it more than anyone else. And for what? What they seem to do is neither they nor the Serbs in Kosovo know who works for or against their interests. I think they both know each other well, both Serbs and Albanians, and therefore I understand the Albanian reaction, and I especially understand why Serbs with over 85% support the policy that we are leading, which is serious, responsible, which is not harmful, which is not dishonest. On the contrary, she is brave, honorable, but serious and responsible and she protects both our national and our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55246	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Radeta, you have no right to a replica. The president explained everything nicely. Thank you. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go, colleague Jojic. (Whispering Radeta: Where did Jojic come from now?) Here you go, colleague Jojic. But he's not on the list. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55247	You just want to get this one in line? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, it is true that from the Battle of Kosovo in 1389 to today, it has been 630 years. Nothing is unknown, and let's remind ourselves of what separatists and regentists and raptors have done since 1945 on this side. The first demonstrations the Shipsters organized were in 1968. The other demonstrations, mass, which were in 1981, were the demonstrations that were the most intense when from all the centres of Kosovo and Metohija in Pristina, 150,000 Shipatarian terrorists and Nazis came together, so I was one of the commanders in the joint squad, when we had 10,000 members of the security service in the group. Then, on May 13, 1981, after 30 years, we entered the Serb municipality, because police and security forces could not enter Serbia for 30 years or Prekaza. What should be reminded is that the leadership has been wrong, both the judiciary and the authorities of the administration, which took place in Kosovo as it has been historically since 1945. Josip Broz liquidated Krcun, who was a major opponent of politics that was at the expense of Serbia. He liquidated Josip Broz and Rankovic, who began disarming Cypriot terrorists and Nazis. But that's why Joseph Broz organized the Brion Pleum in 1966, held it in the Brions, not in Serbia. Since then, Serbia has no leadership that is interested and struggles for Serbian interests. What you mentioned, which is true, the DOS has left lasting consequences for Serbia and Kosovo. You can imagine, over 1,500 terrorists and villains Vojislav Kostunica, then president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, released from prison, who were as proven war criminals. What I would like to point out to you is that, as federal justice minister at the time, Mr. Kostunica has made a request asking me to pardon Flyor Brovina. However, I rejected the request and the proposal as federal justice minister and as a Serb. I would never sign such a thing as a Serb. However, what is very important for Vojislav Kostunica and DOS, to know and never forget that Kostunica and DOS delivered to the Hague criminal tribunal the greatest heroes and heroes of Serbs. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia must take care of its people, its interests and lead an appropriate policy aimed at ensuring stability, peace and security, but at no cost to tolerate and allow it to do what it wants of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55248	Thank you. The word is Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55249	Mr. President, yesterday in your presentation you started from historical aspects, these are indicators, and then you moved on to Resolution 1244, of course, given the fact that they delivered us a resolution that was delivered to us and signed as it was, it was unfortunately the only paper we could get hold of after NATO aggression. When talking about the negative parts of Resolution 1244, it should be noted that key parts that are important for Serbia, which says - Article 4 confirms that after the withdrawal of the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel will be allowed to return to Kosovo to perform their post in accordance with Annex 2. Then -- the demilitarisation of the Kosovo Liberation Army of the KLA and other armed groups of Kosovo Albanians, as required in Article 15, in the text below. Then, also very important - promoting the establishment of significant autonomy and self-government in Kosovo, etc. So, in Resolution 1244, Serbia as the successor of the SRJ and that it has the opportunity and the right to fight for its territory and to say in the resolution itself, the return of the Serbian army and police. When you talked about the Brussels agreements that it was the only option, what was left behind, because the vermin they did, Borko Stefanovic and all the negative contracts and agreements that were signed. I remember Mr Tomislav Nikolic from 2012 when he promised to abolish those agreements in Kosovo Mitrovica. All right. You came to power, you couldn't, the Brussels Agreements were signed, if I'm not mistaken, Ivica Dacic. But the controversial detail of this agreement is Article 14 where someone really needs to finally explain, and today you are here, where it says -- it is agreed that neither side will block or encourage others to block the progress of the other side on its path to the EU. Does this mean, given the fact that local communities do not go to the EU, that regions do not go, countries go, what is said in this respect, that they will not block each other? Because you said, I will remind you yesterday, the possibility between 2025 and 2030 for Serbia to join the EU, in what form, with what limits? Also, Mr. Vukic, I want to say that we can really agree on a large number of things when you were talking about the hysteria of Shipatarian terrorists, then, when you spoke metaphorically to hang you around many other things in Brussels, whatever you tried, but you also said that they told you that Serbian dreams of demarcation. Serbian dreams of demarcation, that your dreams and Serbian dreams are to carry out the demarcation. What's the question here? You as president of the state, the first one here among us, must when you're talking about the first, second, third Prizren League, if the others weren't able, we should make, not a Serbian dream, but a Serbian dream to put on paper, so, just when we strengthen the economy, the military, in 50, 100, 200, 300 years, just as the Shiparis have waited 100 and more years to come to their dreams and slowly realize the great Albania, we should do the same and say that we will distinguish ourselves with Greece in the Drac Belt and define our borders and respect this constitution as it is. But of course we're all aware that we need to be more economically powerful, militaryly stronger, and we can't possibly be militaryly neutral, because that's the wrong policy you've had since 1945. Also, you said - if there is no compromise, expect an attack by the Shiptara. Of course, they'll keep provoking, that's what they've been doing since day one. But until we define our position and say, this is a red line that we don't go over, this will be a Serbian dream and a Serbian goal, every day we should talk to every month and every year and to our children, and we who lived in Kosovo and Metohija, who were baptized in the High Decans, the Mother of the Left, and other saints, to send a clear message and teach them, next year in Prizren and next year in Knin. Until we do, and for the next 300 years, we won't give it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55250	The president has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55251	I'll try, with the gratitude of Mr. Jojic, to answer a few things now. I do not think that Serbia's leadership today is less Serbian than Mr. Rankovic and many others in Serbian history, on the contrary, but time and the future will give their grade in the best possible way and generations to come. Never have the contemporaries ever respected enough. I'm sure the future and history will give their best judgment. As for your remarks, there are a few things I'm very proud of. I appreciate the passion with which you approach this problem, because it says how much emotion you invest in everything, but I want to tell you that in Article 14 to understand, they have not defined who, and what borders it enters, because signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the range that they can reach. They didn't open negotiations like us, so they could be admitted as a state. That's why we accepted that item 14. does not contain entry into the UN. And let me tell you, that's the only night I can write a whole book, the kind of pressure we've been under, and what's been going on. So, two problems were that night with the Brussels Agreement. It was one that we let the uninterrupted entrance into all international organisations, including the UN. The second point was for the northern Kosovo Police region to be composed of seven municipalities. These four of us, plus South Mitrovica, Vučitrn or Vushtrick, as Albanians say both Serbian or Skenderaj as Albanians say. Even though the Deputy Prime Minister, at that moment I refused, I was thrown out. They tried to put pressure on everyone else, and others told them that they were afraid of me and that because of me, they wouldn't accept such things. I guess I served as a special lunatic and a scarecrow for all of it. Then they put pressure on me here for ten days. Then they told me one thing - we'll accept the thing and you accept the other and we'll go to the signing of the Brussels Agreement. I said for another ten days that I wouldn't accept any of those two things, so they could kill me. I didn't accept either of those two things, and then we signed the Brussels Agreement. So at point 14, there is no danger for us in the Brussels Agreement. Nothing at all. He and the Adriatic know it better, and she can explain it in more detail. They can reach the SP level. We won't even tell them about the reasons why we all support visa liberalisation, but you're smart, young man, so you understand why we're doing it. So it's not something that's incomprehensible. I wanted to show you something else. I want to point out a few things, since we have more documents now, about Resolution 1244. You've read that and I'm going to show you here to see what it looks like, these are the positive standards that we're referring to. We have a little more negative norms to which Albanians are called in Resolution 1244. I just want to read them to you. I think it's important that people know that, I think it's important that people know that Resolution 1244 is not a single thing at all, and it's not an act that doesn't cause us a lot of problems. The key negative consequence of this Resolution is that it suspends our country's right to exercise sovereignty over the territory of the province of KIM and in it what is much more dangerous for us, and I will read you a complete member, so the SRJ are accused of the outbreak of crisis and violence and repression in the province. So, Article 3 says -- it specifically requires the SRJ to immediately stop violence and repression in Kosovo, in a way that can be verified, to start and end withdrawal in stages with Kosovo, in a way that can be verified, by all military, police and paramilitary forces. So, they realize that we certainly have paramilitary forces. So, according to the emergency schedule, the deployment of international security access in Kosovo will be synchronised. You immediately read item 4. By referring to it, which we call upon. And there's only one problem they've made for us according to that point. Do you know who approves of SRJ's entry? KFOR Commander. So without Commander KFOR's permission, we cannot enter the KIM territory. KFOR commander after leaving, depending on his assessment, after leaving the Russian contingent in 2003, is NATO's commander. NATO lets us enter Kosovo and Metohija while the decisions of the countries of Quinte, above all, will never, and therefore I have broken all morning, as many mornings and as many nights, as well as how to react and how to effectively and effectively protect our people. They also find that in Kosovo, the resolution, which we always call upon, realizes that humanitarian tragedy is taking place and condemns all acts of violence against Kosovo's population, as well as all terrorist acts by any party, which indirectly determines the excessive responsibility of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for the Kosovo crisis. It is also noted that the situation in the region remains a threat to international peace and security, which establishes the basis for using the Security Council's mandate to decide on additional use of force. In Article 3, in Article 9a of Resolution 1244, the Security Council, under the threat of force use, is required to prevent the restoration of hostilities by maintaining and where it is necessary to impose ceasefire and enable the withdrawal and prevention of return to Kosovo by federal and republican military, police and paramilitary forces, except as prescribed in point 6 of Annex 2. So I just want to point out to you, understanding your good intentions, I'm struggling and I can't talk to those, to tell you the truth, who would easily give up everything that's Serbian, and I don't have a problem talking and showing you, because it's impossible to know all that. That's what I need to know because I've been doing for seven years, and I've lived with it for seven years. No one else in Serbia knows that, all possible acts. I attended all the conversations. Guys, I've dated them 150 times, if I were the dumbest guy in the world, I'd have to know the most, if there wasn't one dumber person in the whole world than me, I'd have to know the most. At Resolution 1244, the Albanians initially called on her much more often than we did, and then as a commanding officer from 2014, 2015, as if someone had told them – you are doing nothing else, call on the decision of the International Court of Justice. Here, there are general Vladisavljevic and Vujic, so they can tell you that here, but as a drunk plate, they do nothing else, they just stick to it. Now, the Vucici can't do that, besides your country, your foreign minister asked for it, your country asked for it, you got an opinion from the International Court of Justice and it's not an ad hoc tribunal, it's a real international court of justice. What else do you want? What the UN said doesn't interest me, but what it tells us at every negotiation and then it looks at you before Ashton, then it looks at you Mogerini, looks at you and Merkel. What's my answer to that? I fight, don't worry, I don't stay to say anything. I'm calling on thousands of other documents, but I'm just telling you that they've changed and suddenly they're completely focused on that document and it's become their key argument. Article 11a of the Resolution states that the main responsibilities of international civil presence will include promotion, the establishment of significant autonomy and self-government in Kosovo, listen to me now, please, Miljane, it is the hardest member for us, until the final solution, with full consideration of Annex 2 and the Rambuje agreement. Why? Why the Rambuje deal? Because in the Rambouje agreement, they put one attitude that we like, and then they just write Rambui, and Rambui is that after three years they have the right to plead and make a decision on independence. They put that in Resolution 1244, except we never wanted to read it, we never wanted to read it with our people. They sold us all the tricks, everything. They did it all against our people. We had people who didn't even want to read it, who wouldn't read it, who wouldn't even ask them, and where is their referendum? Where Albanians made mistakes and contrary to Resolution 1244, they did not make a referendum either. They called on the 1991 Kacani referendum, called on the 1991 Kacani Constitution to be fully unlawful, met in three tents, and 25 circled something. Article 11d states that after the establishment of the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo, the authority of international civilian presence will include the transfer of its administrative responsibilities to these institutions with supervision and support for their consolidation. So they have always programmed the strengthening of Pristina institutions towards Belgrade and the world, "er gaumnes". They planned it all along, they drew it in our paper, and we took a sentence that we caught on and over and over again on television they believed it. I just want to tell you that you understand how difficult Serbia is, not because I need to complain. I've heard this 500 times from them, and now they don't even mention it anymore, because I find one norm that's in collegiate with it, and then they keep quiet about it. What am I going to say to this 2010 thing? Just tell me what to say. Is that not a binding opinion, the International Court of Justice verdict? What can I say? Opinion? What can I say? So our position is certainly not easy, but I must say that not even the position of all those who are against Serbia is as easy as it was a few years ago. That position will certainly not be much easier for them in the future either. We will fight for our country, fight for our people, and we will look at every possible way that, as I said, in the future, we will lose as much as we have to, and we will get as much as we can. If I told people how honey and milk flow and how strong we are in the world, I really couldn't, it wouldn't be fair and it wouldn't be true. Thank you for wanting to listen to me and just one important piece of information, I'm sorry. Since you talked about the dialogue on the Brussels Agreement, everyone, that's the main topic, just to hear one important piece of information. We received official data from Serbia's MUP. So, since 1999, to this day, KIM has exactly 9,000 ethnically motivated attacks, 9,000 ethnically motivated attacks. In the period from 2014 to today, a little less than 500 attacks. I just want to show you that these results aren't as small as they look. When you look at proportions, you'll see that this is multiple less than it was in the previous period when they said everything is much better than it is today. This dialogue has brought us peace and stability, and although it is certainly not enough rights for Serbs, a little more security for our people and for our citizens. That's the thing I'm happy about. Here, let me read you the exact details of today's arrest. They arrested 28 people, 19 cops, nine citizens. Of those 19 officers, 11 are Serbs, seven Albanians and one Bosniak. It's 12 from the north, seven from the south, and all nine citizens are people from the Zubi Strak are Serbs, ordinary citizens, who stood up to them at Varage. Now, just to be told by the international community that it's two months, three months planned action against crime and corruption, and then ask me -- and what after that you can tell them. You smile and say, "Yes, you are right and I congratulate you on the rule of law that you advocate, since some expert will come to ask me the day after tomorrow – what have you kept on the border for 17 minutes?" This is what they will tell us – this is an extraordinary action in the fight of the rule of law and the rule of law. What do we do, it's a situation we have to face and in which we have to fight for the best interests of our people and we will fight for it and we will never give up on it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55252	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Vukic, first of all, thank you for being commander-in-chief this morning, with your decision to raise the battle effort of the Serbian Army and to put the police units on the alert, reaffirming once more what we always say, which is that the use of the military and police is a legitimate option and a legitimate means of defence both the constitutional order and the citizens of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It is finally and the right way to talk to Albanians and it is an option that must as Damocle's sword hang over their heads all the time. You know, you can't go into negotiations and spread defetism, say that we always have to do something, that time doesn't work for us, that if we don't reach an emergency agreement first of all, we're going to postpone joining the European Union, that in the next 40 years, according to statistics, we're going to lose 44% of the population. You must never hear from our mouths that Kosovo and Metohija are lost because they are not. The situation is difficult on the ground, it is a fact, but it is not lost and will never be lost, as long as we Kosovo and Metohija do not give up. If we lost him, then why are they still taking him away from us and why are they still asking us to give our consent to the independence of Kosovo and Metohija? Tomorrow, Mr. Vukic, let us give up Kosovo and Metohija, that we are not looking for anything, that we are not interested in anything, a clean confession to confess, do you think it will satisfy the appetites of Albanians? I'm absolutely sure they won't, and tomorrow they'll be looking for both Presevo and Bujanovac and Bear, which aren't even 10%. It is clear that recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence would, in fact, open an invitation to all interested parties to further burying the rest of Serbia. I think it is completely naive to believe that a sustainable compromise with Albanians is possible, and that it is completely naive to believe in the sincerity of the Western forces involved in the process. You know very well, and for a moment you said that the West had used all the tricks. You said whatever the Albanians did that they were always on their side. They bombed us to achieve independence, arm them, give them political support. I think it is quite clear that we cannot believe, even if a compromise were reached, that they would be able to fulfill anything from this compromise that goes into the interests of the Serbian people, as they failed to fulfil Resolution 1244, and as they failed to fulfil any of their only obligations under the Brussels Agreement. Do you think, Mr. Vukic, that Croatia will allow Serbia to enter the European Union until they take 10,000 acres on the left bank of the Danube or at least make us accept some arbitration in which we will surely lose, as has always been the case? Serbia needs a fundamental change in state policy, not to pursue a European Union that obviously does not want us and to turn to our traditional friends and defend exclusively the interest of the Serbian people. You have huge support for the citizens of Serbia and I think that's a fact. Yesterday you received a frantic round of applause in the Assembly, you have a huge parliamentary majority, even though you yourself said that you came to the Assembly with nothing, that you carry nothing, that you can offer nothing and that there is no compromise in sight. Now, there's a saying that says -- every government corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is absolutely certain, Mr. Vukic, that at least you are partly drunk with this support and a team of applause, and it is quite clear, regardless, as no one has lasted until dawn, nor will anyone's authority forever, so neither will yours, whether it will last another five, ten years, it is completely irrelevant, but you must be aware that on the day you are not in power, you will be the loneliest man in Serbia and there will be none of those who are now playing friends and are applauding you. There's another saying that says -- today's vizier, tomorrow's blade. It is quite clear that this huge support imposes on you a commitment and a desire to do something great to be remembered by the Serbian people, however, I don't think that this should be a solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues, because we need to wait for favourable historical conditions in which we will be able to achieve our national interests rather than run to resolve this issue as soon as possible. I am absolutely sure that disowning Kosovo and Metohija is not something that can go well in historical terms, because history will not write either "Pink" or "Informer" or many others, it will be written by some generations that will come after us and we will not be able to influence. You can blame all of Serbia, or the rest of Serbia, with gold and cadif, if you do not give up God, Kosovo and Metohija, that is what the people will remember you by. It is my advice that this great thing to do for Serbia be the opening of factories, to be economic empowerment, to be the rise of national pride so that sometimes in the future, if we are not now, we can sometimes be able to achieve our interests in the future. As for this thesis, as we in Belgrade have no right for a hundred years to wait for some solution, people in Kosovo and Metohija live there every day, you conduct a referendum on which you spoke on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and you will get the result that you know, that they have only one wish, and that wish to live in Serbia, they want to live free, they have no freedom since 1999, but they have hope of living in freedom and in Serbia. If you recognise Kosovo's independence, you will put out that hope and without hope of freedom there will be no survival for Serbs in the area, but only a matter of time and technique when it will disappear. Over the centuries, the Serbian people have preserved neither statistics nor a high standard of living, but freedom, the fight for freedom and a sense of national pride and identity, and that is what you must work on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55254	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55255	I have no naive belief in Western forces, no naive belief in any force. All forces have their own interests. What I have faith in is Serbia, it's citizens of this country, and I'm committed to our country's progress. A few things you've noticed correctly. I have no illusions, and I have no doubt that there will be other conditions for joining the European Union, despite Chapter 35, bilateral, that someone will say that it is the Danube border, that they will be able to have six different arches for their different border disputes with all neighbours, from Slovenians, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and Montenegro, if you will, all others, therefore, somewhere in the sea, somewhere on land, their rivers are a problem, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. Possibly. I just didn't understand what was fundamentally changing. I'm not drunk with support or applause. I think we have won many times in the most convincing way in modern Serbian history because I have not allowed myself to be drunk or to experience it in a sweet way. At all times, we acted seriously, we didn't, we didn't rejoice too much, we didn't attack our opponents, we turned to work, we turned to hard work. As far as the results are concerned, I'm proud. Wherever you go, you'll see that the factories we opened. When you head towards Zrenjanin and Kikinda, when you head for Šid and Zagreb, when you head for Novi Sad, when you head for Nis or Nis itself, soon six or seven factories, when you head for southern Serbia and Leskovec, and Vranj, and in Leban, and in Vladic's Han after ten years, the first factories in the Kingdom and two, in Kruševec and Krumbersubert, Čačka "Forverk" looks magnificent. Please go see, soon they're opening this beautiful and very good factory, two in Loznica, in Shabac is "Jasaki", for which we only paid 10m euros, although we are not in power there. In Kragujevac we created "Simensova" and "Milanović" factory, something outside of Kragujevac, soon there will be thousands of employees, but it is not enough and we will have to strengthen in Kragujevac, but these are the things that will remain and we will have to do a lot in Kragujevac and Šumadia. I'm not satisfied with it yet, I'm not satisfied with myself first. And that's what I'm proud of as well as the fiscal consolidation measures and the regulation of public finances by domestic relations and business and what the Serbian Government today has much more power, and even if it has this army and that there's this police force that you've been talking about, which we almost didn't have in the previous period, except formally and on paper alone. When you say do I want to do something big? That's right. I want to do as many big things as I can and I'm in a hurry. I don't think I'm someone who has a lot of time. I want to run the sprint for as long as I can, not lose weight and go clai-klai and fight only to stay in power for as long as I can without being left behind. But for me, one thing is amazing. So, I've been listening 10 times today, as if I've come with some document that recognises Kosovo's independence, or I don't know what, nor have I come up with it, nor has it been my idea. Nemanja Sarovic: Fear exists. Fear exists? Yeah? Now we're back in the irrational phase where someone's fear exists, where someone's afraid, because they heard it from a neighbor or from a neighbor and nothing else. If that fear exists, it shouldn't exist, but it won't save us, it won't save us, it won't give us more than we have today. You're for one thing right. Whatever one of the bishops did in the Serbian Church noticed exactly that. Whatever you do, you'll regret it, and whatever you do, it's all your fault. I know that. And I've known that for a long time. That's why, and when we brought the Brussels Agreement, I was the only one who went to Kosovo Mitrovica, I faced not only whistles, but also physical attacks, although I tried and thought I did, and today I see that we did all together the best and most possible work for Serbs, because to be honest, I didn't care much about Albanians in Kacanic, Glogovec, the Serb, the whole Drenica, I cared about Serbs. And today I see these results. Their nervousness specifically tells me how right we were and wouldn't happen to go to Chabra today, it's the only Albanian village in Zubin Potok municipality. To remind you of the Chabra and the Chabra incident, more fake than real, they began a coup over Serbs in 2004. I think we did a big and good job. I'm trying, because at the end of the day when a lie goes by, a brainwashing, a story about set-up events, a story about fictional things... I brought here a bag of the worst shit I've ever heard of in the last month. It's not easy for a normal person to handle, people get excited when a neighbor says something difficult, so they usually react reluctantly. To repeat, yesterday I experienced that a national MP was trying to distract me from entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Nemnja Sarovic: That's why he got from us. I didn't understand you. No, they wanted to say that since they were being prevented, that's why they reacted, but I can't react that way. I'm the President of the Republic. I can't and I can't react. And since you know me well, do you think it was easy for me not to react? Do you think it was nice not to react? Do you think it's nice to look at someone who's running into me, and they're shaking with fear while they're flying and I have to keep my mouth shut and watch? That I have to keep my mouth shut, be polite and watch him curse something, throw something, scream, literally shake his whole body with fear? But what to do. And you don't understand if it's possible for someone to think of doing it. Besides, I didn't react to any of it. Today I'm getting a lecture from people, and there he is in New York, that Jeremy. He's in New York, I'm here fighting my people to see how we can get him out of an Albanian attack. He's a great patriot, the one who gave them the opinion of the International Court of Justice in 2010, and he's sitting in some bar in New York, doing whatever he wants, while I'm fighting here with our people. Now, I'm a traitor. What kind of people make sense? By what justice? By whose? What did I do? What did I sign? What did we do wrong for our people? Is there anyone who can tell me at last except the Chapraz-divine I've been listening to all along? I listen all the time to what anyone tells me what's going to happen, so I didn't come to the National Assembly with it. And I don't hide it from you when I have anything I'm going to come to the National Assembly, I'm going to show you what I'm going to do, and I'm going to fight for it. I don't have anything in my hands. I don't have any plan. We don't have anything, we don't even have a conversation. We fight for the life and survival of our people. We have no proof, you didn't do anything to Wolfie, but there's fear in the people that you will. I don't know what to say, people. I don't know, it's best that this guy in New York doesn't. The best thing is that every three days in London, you bought your apartments, it's best that he doesn't. They all took their place, they all put their billions away, I don't have them, and I sit with my people and I fight every day and I work every day, I'm guilty, what more people? For a brother's "France" bar that never came in. He never came in. That's what I've been listening to for two years. And what would you do if you heard it every day and for a million other things? And that's his house at sea. What a sea, I haven't seen the sea in four days in seven years. And that's all, it's every day someone has to say. And you'll admit to an independent Kosovo. I have to say, I won't. Oh, no, no, what you're saying I won't, it actually means you will. If I had said so, they would have said, "Did you see if you saw it?" Well, what do you people mean? What do you people want me to say? You know I'm fighting for Serbia, I'm just asking if it's fair, is that always fair? Just think about it, people. Did I offend you? What can you say about Serbia's economic power? I know you're looking forward to Serbia's greater military strength, and you've got something to do with it. What's worse? Is everything ideal? Of course not, it'll never be, as long as we're alive it won't be. And when was that good in Serbia? And in what period were we satisfied? Here, now I'm telling you, it's better now and it's going to be the best time. We have a problem with Kosovo and Metohija. So what now? Is that my problem? Did I bring it, in any way did I generate it, create it, make it, do anything? I didn't. I don't have any plan. I will fight for a compromise, because I think it is better to protect people's lives, because I think it is better to protect Serbia's future. If that's the wrong policy, I don't mind it being the wrong policy, but that also means, when I say that I will fight for the lives of people, that I will fight for the lives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Do not underestimate our people in Kosovo and Metohija, you know there are no elections stolen, such as no elections stolen anywhere. I know you know this well, and that's why I didn't want to talk to those who protested in 2017 for false theft in the elections, and they knew that there was no theft, because they had 16 controllers in polling stations, and we didn't have four, us and the Socialists together. They had 16. How did we steal past 16 of your controllers? They knew all that, but it's easier to explain. I'm just asking you, respecting your patriotism, respecting your patriotism, your care for your country, just please, please as God, try only from time to time to be a little fair. Don't tell me, thank you for this or for what you've done. Here, this is good what you did, this is bad. That's not what I'm asking. Criticise everything, just say what's wrong, but about what's wrong, base on facts, and not on it, there's fear in the people or she said that it's going to happen because every year I listen to Nemanja, every year, e, Vukic promised, so they brought him to power in 2012, he promised, he'll sign by 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2019. And here, for seven years I didn't sign what I promised. What am I? Houdini? I apologize, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly and your MPs for the excess passion in this response. Thank you for your attention one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55256	I have to do something procedural. It's our Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. We can continue the debate. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vukic, listening to your report yesterday and what she gave us for this session of the Office, I can agree with this historic context of the loss of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but this demographic synthesis, the science that you have presented to us through this methodological approach, is something that cannot be a guideline for us to solve problems in Kosovo and Metohija and for the future, both us and future generations. I remind you that these great Western forces were on our side as our allies in the First and Second World War. In World War I, we lost a third of the Serb population, so again we kept our unity between the people and the state and our southern province, KIM. All that, and you mentioned one part, which they later did with their evil policies towards the Serbian people Broz's communists, that famous demarcation of the 1956 borders, you mentioned to me the Lešak and the surrounding villages, Leposavic, who knows how long it would go, maybe to Raška and to the Kings, but it simply has to be a lesson for us now in these changed geostrategic circumstances, or you as president of the state and your authority, to leave this issue to future generations to know how to keep it and in what way to talk to precisely the world powers of which we know forces, all those under NATO cover do not want well. Today there were controversy over Resolution 1244, and in preparation for this session and annexes I looked again, Resolution, Military and Technical Agreement, however, we must agree, that in the last 20 years it was the only international legal document that gave us the basis to fight for what they had done, first of all, traitors from the dossal authority after 2000, because the patriotic robbery of Kosovo and Metohija, under Djindjic, Cindzic, Kostunica's government, Tadic's government had such a situation, which you well know, because you were then an MP from the same parliamentary group, to reach more than 30 billion dinars that they robbed. What's the suggestion? You say, be fair and correct, come out with that proposal. Deny policies to bind Kosovo and Metohija's fate from Serbia to the EU. Economic parameters such as this, which should be a special session, cannot, or we cannot fully accept, especially given the new belt and the way of the People's Republic of China, everything we can expect from brotherly Russia and, above all, military assistance and political assistance. It was shown before the start of negotiations in Brussels, which was this unfortunate Vuk Jeremic and the traitorous Tadic's power had moved from the UN Security Council, that Western-European countries were not being honest with us and that they were already talking about keeping what was needed for Serbs and above all to stick to our constitutional framework, but that they wanted to, and thus they gave the wings to Haradinaj, the murderers of Serbian children and the villain, that he now tells you, Alexander Vukic, to the President of the Republic in the face – no, I am interested only in good neighbourly relations, nothing else. So, the only way to go is to find a new formula, now that all that goes in favor and for the benefit of, above all, such support, unreserved support that we have from China, Russia, India and all other countries and from these smaller, conditionally said countries that are members of the UN, which are calling off that recognition, to seek, insist that right there, under the auspices of the UN on the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, we have full political and economic and military integration with the Russian Federation. We can't just leave it like that and say, it's the fate of the EU, so what do we do, because it'll be 15, 20 years soon, Mr. Wolf. Europe will sink completely economically, and we will, God forbid we lose our territory, and therefore you must always bear in mind what Sima Milutinovic Sarajlija, as a teacher of Negosev told him – every Serb must have his own destiny, regardless of whether he was the president of the state, the MP, the minister in the government, which some of your ministers do not understand, to bind to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. When he taught him, he said to him, "The sword and the heart, your soul and your songs." And we have to tell ourselves and do so to save and preserve Kosovo and Metohija and that to every man in his heart and in his soul, that is all that should be in mind, that Kosovo and Metohija is forever Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55258	The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55259	Mr. President of Serbia, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problems of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija began a long time ago and culminated in 1998 and 1999 when Serbs were openly and tirelessly persecuted and killed without anyone's responsibility. As a witness to numerous events and turmoil in Kosovo and Metohija, I can testify that Serbs, not only during NATO aggression at the time of the SRJ, and in 1999 protected every Albanian house, just as if it were Serbian. I myself took part in the protection of Albanians with members of the SRS, which we did in 1999 during the bombing. We respected our neighbours and believed that respect was mutual, but it seems that only the Serbs believed it. However, it pains me that all of Serbia's governments so far have persistently silenced the tragic fact that Serbs from the KIM area have suffered the loss of the rank of genocide and have suffered the most immediately after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement and the adoption of Resolution 1244. Only in the period from June 1999 to July 2000, more than 10,000 different crimes and war crimes were committed in Gjilan and the surrounding area, exclusively against Serbs and other non-Albanians. In that year, 132 murders and 153 kidnappings were registered. Albanian terrorists made 75 shellings from mortars and hand rocket launchers during that period. That's when 80 mines were done. In the pogrom of Serbs and other non-Albanians from Gjilan and the environment only from July 1999 to June 2000 I will remind you 232 people have been beaten. 638 houses and auxiliary facilities were burned down. In the same period, as many as 1,323 houses or apartments owned by Serbs were robbed, and 966 houses and apartments were violently usurped. Also, if someone forgot, I'll remind you that 123 vehicles, 103 bars, as well as 824 cattle. In the period between June 1999 and June 2000, 57 churches and monasteries were destroyed and destroyed only in Gjilan and the surrounding area, and 885 tombstones were destroyed. According to official data available from 1998 to 2002 in the Gjilan area, Kosovo's seas killed 202 people and kidnapped 260 people of Serbian nationality, and no Albanian was killed. Unfortunately, the sad number of Serb genocide with KIM is under the auspices of the international community. Apparently, it doesn't mean hundreds and thousands of those unreported cases. It offends and hurts because it humiliates us. Unfortunately, when they came to power in Serbia in 2000, Kosovo-Methohic Serbs were left to themselves. The criminals of the Đakova group, Fjore Brovina, Mazreku brothers and more than 1,000 Albanians were amnested as representatives of the regime at the time spoke, a signal for reconciliation, and for us Serbs with KIM it was a sign that we were left at the mercy and mercy. Albanians, above all those who were released from prison, and who returned to KIM to continue their bloody beer, were forced by the state's moves by Serbs with KIM. Is anyone aware of that? At that time, only the Serbian Orthodox Church was with us, and we were with it and with it. Can you imagine our disappointment when in early 2014, the Belgrade war crimes court for lack of evidence freed the Gjilan group charged with the brutal death of more than 80 Serbs and 34 people are being led and disappeared today. The living are more than 150 who are beastly tortured. It is sad that this information is presented to a judicial council only by a lack of evidence. The release of the problem at KIM EULEX is an unforgivable mistake, but Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic's treasonous move. From this authority and from you, Mr. Vukic, I expect that mistake to be corrected. In solving these problems, it is simply necessary to include the Russian Federation, which is our force as protector, and to return to KIM Resolution 1244, which Mr Putin also always emphasizes. Russia with the rest of us friendly states is the only guarantee that KIM will remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. It's the only way to solve problems. For us, the Serbs with KIM are not acceptable to any division or any distinction. That means a huge number of Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55260	Thank you. The word has Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55261	Thank you, President. Mr. President of the Republic, Ministers of the Government of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing that the theme of Kosovo and Metohija today is in the National Assembly, and to be honest, it needed and it had to be much earlier, which is why we MPs of the SRS have advocated. What's not good is that these benches on our right aren't filled with MPs, but it's a matter of their policy. Kosovo and Metohija is a question, not a party issue, it is a question above all ideologies and parties. As I was preparing for today's session, I read a careful report on KIM. Not to go too far in history, Mr. President, you gave yesterday a very good cut of the historical relations between Serbian-Albanian relations since the time of Ilir. Under the auspices of the international community, you started negotiations with the international community. The negotiations were constantly minceded and obstructed by Albanians. I will start with an economic forum when they have openly prepared the war, unless solutions that do not appeal to Albanians are surprised. With the election of Fatmir Ljam, a war criminal testified as head of the negotiating team, by eradicating the state border with Albania, by introducing 100%-to-peer taxis from Serbia and BiH, by adopting the so-called Trepce Statute, then by adopting a resolution on Serbia's alleged genocide through the establishment of a war crimes court, etc. to open threats and pressures, theft, robbery, intimidation and physical attacks with a clear goal of strengthening the migration of Serbs. My question to you, Mr. President - why did you agree to negotiations under these conditions and these pressures, to new rounds of negotiations, when the Albanian side did not respect what was previously agreed on, and above all, I mean the Serb community? Another question, Mr. President, you who passed the best political school, did you trust your international friends too much, what did you call them? I'm not sure of their true friendship, and these friends have been very good for us today for the problems we have. I will take the opportunity to remind you that you were personally honored and respected in Paris at the celebration of the 100th anniversary of World War I. The Serbian Radical Party remains faithful to its principled commitment, that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia, which has taken away one part of the international community from us by force, and with which we and one part of the international community will never be reconciled. There's a lot of our guilt in all of this. I'm talking about those who came to power by a five-October coup and who removed the issue of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN Security Council and put it into the hands of those who haven't really witnessed our friends. It is also in favour of this information that during their rule, the largest number of states have recognised Kosovo's independence. To remind me that their product of the International Court of Justice's opinion today is also the strongest argument for Albanians to gain independence. The criminal NATO bombings were called campaigns and interventions, and Serbia's biggest heroes handed over political and military leadership to The Hague. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also a disgrace to the human dignity that only today, after 20 years, can we and can we talk about Kosharam, their heroes and exploits. Mr. President, I know you're a good chess player. I'll use chess terminology to ask you a question. Why do we always play black figures? Why don't we take certain initiatives? In particular, you said that only after meeting with the macron will you come out with a clear plan of countermeasures to Pristina on charges introduced that are more than six months in force? Speaking of the EU, I'll tell you that the EU is like a train - who gets in earlier, will have a good place, will be able to sit, and who will later enter, will not have a good place, will have to stand if he gets on the train at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55262	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55263	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, simply, and yesterday and today I have to be here. That's how I understand it, and it couldn't have happened if I wasn't here. It's my need, it's my understanding and I didn't have any dilemmas. I might say something that's different to interpret, and I don't care about that, I guess because I've been in politics a long time since I might be from the Woodland and because I've been through a lot of hard things in life and politics and myself. So, on this subject, you can't be political opponents to me, not me to you, and I guess it should be at least once in the lives of all of us, that something this important, perhaps most important, we agree without being political opponents. I get it, I'm gonna talk like that, and that's how I'm gonna act, because I think it's the obligation of all of us. This is both a national and a state issue. I don't love this country any more than any of you, nor do you love this country more than I do. If that's the case, then I have to be here and I have to say how I feel about this. Getting ready for this, I didn't just come here with some thinking about this, but, of course, I talked to people and I prepared a big rally that was at my place on Saturday. I've spoken to people and they've unanimously said what I'm telling you right now. So I have to be here, I have to say this is like this, and I have to ask to point out the need for a unique attitude on this matter. The report is very exhausted. You can see a lot from him. We knew a lot, and we didn't know a lot, but there are some things that are clear. The first is that we Serbs are to blame for what happened to us in Kosovo. It is clear from the fact that in the 40s last century we had 40% of the Serbs in Kosovo and now there are few percent, so that is, the wings of our policy. Furthermore, the report shows that again in the last 30 years, this policy has not been malicious, maliciously driven by people, but it has led to some of the problems that we have had and I very much appreciate what you said, Mr. President, that you also see your little guilt at some moments and moments, I mean in 1999 and prepare all those and problems that have happened and that's how it should be looked at. So, the report as a real report that speaks in detail about many things to this moment and as much as I am a man or let me say as a party ready to point out something, I can't possibly stick the label of betrayal and something like that to be heard, and that's why I said at the beginning, I'm different maybe from others, because I simply can't talk about this subject the way it's said. So if I were to say something that some people would like and get some plus, that would be minus for me just because it doesn't lead to unity, but simply those pluses are little minuses. Who doesn't realize it like that I can't help him, but I really understand it that way. I have my own position on all issues concerning Kosovo and each of us has them, but I am not going to say it publicly. Why won't I tell him in public? Because I'm a little scared, it's a bit of a chill in me that because of the serious situation, it's just maybe a little different from that general attitude that we'd have to have, and then it's for everything. So my attitude will be the attitude of all of us, and if we set things up like that, then we've made a big step. That's why I'm advocating one maybe session that might be closed, so we can all shut ourselves up here and bring that attitude. It's the attitude of all of us, no matter what our personality is, it's a little different. Just imagine a message to the world -- the Serbian Parliament, 250 MPs unanimously made that decision. It's a big decision. They can be strong, they can do whatever they want, but it's a big story. An unambiguous attitude, and you know what the consequence is. They're the ones who fight, they're the ones who don't love each other, they're the ones who fight over everything, they don't agree on anything, etc. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need this approach to the Constitution tomorrow. Everything else is wrong with us. Mr. President, you mentioned me this morning when you asked me if there were such bad scenes in our long time ago. They were gone. You and I entered parliament together in 1994. You and Stevo Dragisic were the youngest MPs, and you two chaired the Rules of Procedure. One older gentleman, it seems to me he was from Kosovo and was a veterinarian, many times we had controversy and disagreement political from the pay phone. You and I, and never a single ugly word, neither insinuation was directed on either side. I'm proud of it and I'm just saying it to say that we need it, but it's not a few years old, it doesn't matter which side. So that's one very, very important thing. So we are at one point that is very specific, very challenging and we need to be both wise and smart and unique. When I said at the beginning that we couldn't be political opponents on this subject, let me just ask you, did I remind you that we were political opponents in 1999, when Serbia was bombed? We didn't. Serbia was bombed, we defended it. I was the commander of the city's territory and I'm proud of that time and what we did. Thank God no one died in Kragujevac. Everything was under control. We've worked extremely hard. This looks like something to me now. It's similar in the sense that it's hard. Well, can we ask ourselves the same question? Why should we be political opponents when it comes to this subject or such an important topic, these topics are more? That's why I'm simply pointing to it and asking everyone to act like one. Understand the most well-intentioned thing I say to you, the unique view of this matter, our relationship on this matter is very important as a message to the world, and I ask you to behave this way. You can expect me to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55264	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55265	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and respected citizens, one small crackdown at the beginning. I don't think it's burned again, but look briefly at the results of the short-term end-of-the-line sources for the European Parliament, because Serbia's EU integration is closely linked to Serbia's policies towards Kosovo, because these policies have been conditioned by those integrations. It is often said that there is no need for any of these integrations to be subordinated and in any way adapted to them, as certainly the EU will fall apart, as some power centre that depends on our success, the success of our intentions in Kosovo. Very short. The results of the elections say the ruling ethnics and the Social Democrats have fallen, that Eurosceptics have grown, but not enough for anything, and that liberals and greens have significantly jumped, as a highly pro-European group. What is looking forward to is the first time after 25 years of exit over 50%, which also shows that Bregzit has actually strengthened the EU. Our citizens need to know that there is not even enough Euroscepticism among Fides' voters, Orban Fides, although there may be selective acceptance of European values, but there is not even enough Euroscepticism there. Expecting the EU's collapse and changing international power centres, it is unrealistic and therefore needs to continue Serbia's European path. There is an argument that politics towards Kosovo should not be adapted to the EU, because it certainly does not want us. As the main opponents of enlargement and our EU accession are most often mentioned, say, by the French. Recently, a text entitled "Makron has prepared a hell of a plan for Serbs in Kosovo" has been published in our media. I read that text, read it from another source where that same text had a completely different title. It is the following, a new French strategy published by its embassy in northern Macedonia aimed at bringing France closer to the Western Balkan countries and helping them get closer to the EU. Visits by the French president were announced in June, plans to strengthen the rule of law, reforms, sustainable development, transitions to healthier, greener and greener energy, and France is even willing to spend its money on it. It's a hell of a plan, and if it doesn't destroy us, we'll survive everything. This shows the error of giving up European integration, because Europe will not, so it is possible to implement and useful to implement Kosovo policies without regard to European standards. It is probably true that the new relationship of forces in the European Parliament will make it harder to decide and more difficult to decide on Serbia, but it may be harder to decide precisely because the decision will ask more liberals and liberal Democrats, precisely thanks to the growth that owes to the McCron, as a political option less prone to a political compromise with true European values, and we will also have to make these true values in our process of European integration faster, stronger and better, to say, implement in our European integrations. However, this will also cause all our regional neighbours involved in the process of European integration, so let's expect that it will also push the Albanians. Today, too, the question is also often asked whether it is up to the Brussels Agreement and to continue implementing the obligations arising from it, Chapter 23 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where this state, this Assembly, its elected majority, has taken on itself some legal obligations and as a responsible society, I suppose, should implement them? The Brussels Agreement was voted by 173 votes in favour and voted in favour of both SNS and DS, so the opposition parties that are now in some associations seeking to annul the Brussels Agreement. I'm not for the international commitment to be audited every year, two, three or five years, because as a state and as a society, we show complete insecureness and insecure if we make such radical strategic turns so often. I'd like to sublime a few of the thesis we heard yesterday and today in the presentation of the president. I think it is very important that these things are spoken from the position of government in the Serbian Parliament. From the position of government in the Serbian Parliament, that the Serbian public deceives itself when it comes to Kosovo's reality, I agree that in the 1990s we made a mistake because we underestimated the international community. Earlier presentation of one of the MPs across the street, however, he also developed a political career on the international community's understanding at the time, and today we heard that we have no others but NATO. The reality was cruel even then today. We have heard that the UN has determined that our forces have been terrorising Kosovo. We solved the political problem by using military and police forces before the end of the 20th century, on the threshold of the 21st century. We heard that within eight years, the rule of Slobodan Milosevic's Serbia had practically lost its sovereignty in Kosovo, that in Kumanovo, in 1999, we practically signed a kind of capitulation, that Serbia is not present in Kosovo except in education and health. Perhaps too late, but the time has come to sober up, and thank you for the information that has been released in the National Assembly from the position of power, it is time for them to be heard. We heard that through the forgiveness of our electricity bill, Kosovo costs 150m euros annually. To this should be added double receipts of officials, Kosovo supplement, etc., but we also heard that the EU is our largest market, our biggest partner, our investor and our grant donor. I welcome that finding. That we can endure a frozen conflict, it is not certain that the Albanians will not tolerate it and will strike at Serbs, they have struck, here, right during this session, although they have introduced to the soul the fees to freeze and delay or disable the conflict permanently, so we have informed NATO from whom we expect it to defend us, NATO to defend us, that public opinion wants the status quo, although it is impossible and does not give any guarantee to the Serbian side, not even the basic security guarantees for normal or any life of people. Things sound pretty confusing, but at the same time they sound pretty finished and lost. It seems that there is simply no way to celebrate, but in our political debate, Kosovo continues to be a subject suitable for accounting with political inexplicables, to blame, to conquer and defend Kosovo's power and to make beautiful traitoric labels despite reality. Things in public, in Serbian, should be presented to the kind of people they are, which is that we moved long ago in Chapter 35. It is open and produces legal obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which this authority, as the opposition at the time, together with the current opposition, the then power, has adopted, and I would welcome it and I would vote for it because it is about European integration and the only real strategic foreign-political definition of this country that guarantees the final and true reforms in which Serbia should become the one that has never been in the history of its statehood. So we moved a long time ago in the talks on elections under the Kosovo system, the Serb municipalities community. Of course, here we have problems in realisation, a national convention as a body that gathers NGOs, has a working group for chapter 35, many have written about the community of Serb municipalities. Recently, they published a comprehensive document, their political analysis where it was stuck, about who and how it is and when it may be resolved and whether it will be resolved by the Serb municipalities at all, whether there are divisions or not, etc. Citizens need to hear that and inform them, so they may be less prone to self-deception. Energy, telecommunications, civil protection, customs, joint crossover management, border or administrative, who already calls them etc., therefore, all of this has long since moved away from what the citizens think when they say political negotiations on Kosovo are being negotiated, they think only political negotiations on status. Negotiations are status neutral. It turns out that it is unpopular in Serbia to promote European integration, as is unpopular in the EU to promote enlargement. Let me tell you, the fear of populistism that makes these political things unpopular for promotion, politicians think of next elections, statesmen look at next generation. On July 1, 2025, I want all the leaders of the region, including Kosovo, to be in front of the National Assembly and to raise the EU flag in front of it along with the Serbian flag. I don't know if it's real, but I want to believe it, July 1st, 2025 may be too far away, but from the point of view of political actors involved in processes is very close, very close. Many yesterday words were spoken to us in 1989 and 1999. I don't want to call anyone for a later acquired mind or for the subsequent courage to look the truth in the eye and to just say it now, but I will remind you of the words that the last prime minister of the common state of Ante Markovic, a country where all Serbs have lived in one country, which was the goal for which we entered the wars, that all Serbs live in one country. All Serbs have lived in one country, it was called Yugoslavia, lived under compromises to which life together is bound. At that time, Ante Markovic said we would pay for delusions by poverty and by the position of a remote periphery in Europe. I hope we move from that position soon. What is our goal as a society in Kosovo? What do we want from Kosovo? State-law status, that's a legal category. Territories, or we want everything that goes with Kosovo as the widest possible term. Citizens of Kosovo, all citizens of Kosovo, and those we call ugly, do we want them too? A referendum on where Kosovo's citizens want to live has been asked. What is the voter list for this referendum, all citizens of Kosovo or only part of Kosovo's citizens divided by a national line? Can we count on international support for such a thing? Which international centre will be able to legitimize that if we decide to go that way? Status without substance is nothing. In order for a society to be acceptable to life, it must set out its citizens conditions for a quality life. Here's a society analysis. Reform processes are slow, the judiciary remains sensitive to political influence, the state administration is politicised, the fight against corruption and organised crime is not progressing too much, political pressure and attack on journalists are common, making the media scene vulnerable and biased in defining issues in public debate, weak institutions, nationalism and corruption, the lack of education system, fostering brain drains. This is not an analysis of Serbian society, if that is what you first thought, this is an analysis of the Kosovo society in the report of an international NGO. It's obvious that it connects us much more than we think. An interesting corruption affair, a veteran pension in Kosovo, reportedly entered their latest progress report on the EU, shared much more veteran pensions than were KLA fighters, and the prosecutor who investigated it resigned and fled to the United States. Very interesting. Finally, something our historian Dubravka Stojanovic said about the frozen conflict. It is necessary to say what the frozen conflict really means for our collective consciousness, how in our collective consciousness and historical memory we perceive it. By freezing conflict, we freeze the loss and position of the victim. It creates empathy. The victim has advanced indulgence and forgiveness for everyone and the victim's position is excellent for homogenizing the nation and mobilising further action. We freeze the enemy, we freeze the Turks. We have a great historical excuse for everything. Besides them, we also freeze Albanians as enemies with whom we look great, better, European to a greater extent than they do. And we're freezing time. We view history as an eternal fixed moment in which we all live along with all our ancestors and all our lasting historical enemies. The Turks of 600 years ago, to whom we took our revenge, are the same Turks we took revenge on in 1995 in those places. There's no difference. All our historical accounts remain largely uncleared, all our historical enemies and conflicts are mostly open and we have great excuses for all the historical missed opportunities. That's why I'm against the frozen conflict, because we lose one town a year and we lose 650,000 people, that's more than one New Now. And somehow this has to be solved. At the end of the line, in the common European family, the issue of national states, national limitations and national sovereignty is fully relativised and Serbia has the opportunity to have greater powers over Kosovo than ever and to be part of the largest state community.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55266	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. Another speaker on the list has been reported, Djordje Vukadinovic, and then if someone is left with time, and I see there is only one parliamentary group in question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55267	Thank you. President, something wasn't done by that unit. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to answer that right away, but here, fortunately, I can make a few points. I won't respond to what they were, though, I'd say, incorrect things and attacks and insults, no matter what you, Mr. Wolf, were trying to make a point of tolerance. Either way, this is too important a subject to be offended or to be irresponsible or irresponsiblely debated for collecting some points on one side or the other, although you've told me a lot of things incorrectly. I want to correct only two facts, namely one untruth and one half truth, which is stated in principle, has nothing to do with me and the criticism or my political friends or allies. First of all, it concerns the half-truth that the government, or the previous government and Borko Stefanovic, have accepted the crossing of administrative or border, is true. I'm saying it's half true. But there's also one addition to that information, which is that your government or government of this majority implemented it. So, this government implemented, with strong opposition from Serbs and Serbs then, the Serb leader in Kosovo and Metohija. I have before me the conclusion of the government since 6 December 2012, which President Ivica Dacic, where it is said, is talking about making these crossings and it is said that it explicitly stands at the point, it seems to me 3, the government believes that an agreement has been reached in line with the EU's position on status neutrality and that it does not prejudge the final solution of status, and point 5. – at the administrative crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak there will be no charges of customs and other goods duties for the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, and these duties are charged. I want to tell you, another thing, even more dangerous, even more problematic is your finding, that there was an incursion of ROSU and said July of 2011. So it was the only case and we know how bad it ended, Mr. Wolfie. So, I mean, and that's a fact, whether you like it or not, we can talk about the responsibilities of previous authorities like this or not, and I'm really not someone to defend it, but if ROSU couldn't do it in the north like this, it's a fact. You say you have now greatly strengthened the state both military and economic and political. How we've strengthened when every little bit of things happen to you every few weeks, and then you're going to raise the battle, and you're doing special TV shows, so it seems like the war situation started and then we retire, and then you're going to announce some of the sharp measures that you're going to say I don't know when, and then you're prolonging. So, simply, the fact is, I, Mr. Vukic, most kindly ask you, was I really the most correct possible, what would you, personally, personally, at one time as a representative of the opposition leader say about such a situation? What would you say about the Brussels Agreement? Not you formerly, so you say I've changed, although it can stand as a question, but at all you are, that you have a government before you, which signed an agreement, like Brussels, and then it turns out that six points, or all of the Serbs in that agreement, are not fulfilled, and you are, or not you, but the government has applied and fulfilled everything that happened to them. Wouldn't you be thundering here? You couldn't hear any other of you as skillfully as... You are skillful to return a compliment, you are a very skillful, good speaker, but of course you have all the resources possible, so you are still increasing the effect of these speeches and it is difficult to get a chance to answer. So, what you would say, is, how would you thunder, as you would call them, whether traitors or incompetents, you choose the term, that a six-year deal stands, signed by you, or by your country, you have fulfilled everything, and these others nothing. In 2015, you congratulated the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija after the second, conditionally speaking, agreement with Isa Mustafa in August 2015. I quote your tweet: "I think our people in Kosovo and Metohija have reason to be pleased. We've reached good agreements. Tonight, a community of Serb municipalities is being established." Those are your words on August 25, 2015. "There is a community of Serb municipalities being established tonight." Marko Djuric then said those famous five zeros, how we won with five zeros. It's 2019. Almost four years, and there is no "z" from the Serb municipalities community. Of course they're responsible, but isn't there any responsibility for what happened? That's what I need to ask you. Wouldn't it be okay if in some way, at least self-critically, you say - I was wrong, they cheated on me or that's the price we have to pay? Don't, Mr. Vukic, no matter what the differences between us, let it happen to you that this community of Serb municipalities is eventually some sort of compensation for this legally binding agreement, so that something that is their old unfulfilled obligation, I simply ask you and I draw attention and friendlyly warn, friendlyly, so don't offer us this, to offer it to you as compensation for this legally binding agreement. Secondly, you've talked a lot here, I say effectively, a lot of things, but I haven't heard, at least not enough, is there, under what conditions is Serbia willing to accept a chair for Kosovo in the UN? The statements that you, including Mr. Dacic, made on this occasion, are always a little vague. You say - we won't do it without any agreement, we won't recognise unilaterally declared independence if we don't get some compensation. What could be the compensation for recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence? What could be compensation? Is this division, or is this demarcation, perhaps compensation? So, most certainly, if we're wrong as a state, you as a government, once, don't make a mistake again. We can argue very effectively, the media resources you have, switch to the opposition responsibility, but the fact is that neither the Serbs in the north, we are talking about the north, Mr. Vukic, were as powerless as they are now, nor could ROSU do before that, nor were our positions this bad. I do not dispute the good intentions of those who have signed or supported the Brussels Agreement here, but that there have not been conditions, over all these years, to say, as you have announced many times, enough is enough, that there is no point in treating the state in this way, what kind of, what, such, one sovereign, independent state. Not you, these friends. After all, we're talking about a lot of friends, and as you can see, when it comes to supporting Serbia in key things, then these friends, at least these European friends, there's nothing. Then these Russians remain, but their influence is limited. Why do you get the impression that you've been here, consciously or unconsciously, preparing people, the public, for what, compromise? Yeah. What compromise? As if we've all tried, as if most speakers have tried, with rare exceptions, to explain that Kosovo has no salvation, that we can't save, and they won't give us, that's your words, nothing, not even a division, that's why you've blamed, I don't know, some irresponsible factors in the country and abroad. So is it really possible, firstly, that it's a platform we haven't heard? Is that a plan, a demarcation? Ivica Dacic, whose statements we have here, one day, literally one day, says -- that is the platform, on February 19th, and then on February 20th, says: the demarcation with Kosovo is not an official proposal, but an idea of state officials. So in two days, two different statements. Is that really a suggestion? Is that our proposal? Is that a secret plan or not? Secondly, you said that it was also rejected by Serbian citizens, referring probably to poll results, and on the other hand, that both public and international factors do not accept division. The last, literally last time I said it was not a phrase, we are not defending Kosovo, but Kosovo is defending us, and no one has looked back on it. Why? Not only for symbolic, historical and all possible reasons, the importance of Kosovo and the Metohija for Serbian people and Serbian identity, but very practically, for political reasons. If the Kosovo and Metohija problem is solved, as the majority part of the West or the international community or that part of the international community wants, it will immediately raise the issue of Republika Srpska and you know it, probably as well as I do. Isn't it better to deal with it then, to tighten up here within the limits of the possibility, not to point out the war drums, but not to yield and not to allow us to give more than we have to, not agree to that? Do you know, do you believe there is even one MP in the British Parliament who would accept the independence of Fokland or Maldives from the British crown? What does Kosovo mean to Serbia, and what are the Foklands for the UK? No single British MP would accept that, no matter what the difference. In our case, under different excuses, they are actually passing through, we heard yesterday and today here, suggesting that Kosovo and Metohija is a ballast to be freed. So is Resolution 1244 in effect? Is this assembly resolution from January 13, I end up in 2013 in force? What are we going to vote on after all? Is there a document to be voted on, or are we just voting on your oral report? Perhaps this vote will give some green light for some further negotiations with a mandate and platform none of us have heard of, nor does the Serbian public officially know what's in it? In theory, a report on previous work can be backed back, but I do not understand that it is also a mandate for future activities and future negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55268	Thank you. Mr. President, do you want to wait for the last speaker or are you going to wait right now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, you are not respected, Mr. Vukadinovic, for no moment have you tried to be tolerated, except you would like to pretend to be. I want to translate into the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you, MPs, what is it that Mr Vukadinovic said. May I have your attention, please? So, Mr. Vukadinovic said this morning that we signed an agreement on integrated border management and that we are to blame for setting borders on Jarinj and Brnjak. Right after that, I presented the document with the 2011 Borko Stefanovic initials. Each page shows that five crossings were placed by a colleague from "one of 300 million" or as they are already called Mr. Vukadinovic, from their main boss Dragan Djilas's party. That's how left-wings team up with tycoons. So much for their idea and ideology. So each page says Borko Stefanovic, on each page. And Djordje Vukadinović came, had lunch, stopped by the O.R. and said the following thing – you, Mr. Vukadinović, didn't tell the truth, he said - he did sign it, it was accepted then, but you and Ivica Dacic, you implemented it. So what do we do? You know, Serbia is a state and so do all the normal and serious states in the world. In this, the state differs from some other kind of community, which the state respects the agreement and that the state does not interrupt its continuity when it comes to the change of government, and this has the power of an international legal contract. We're going to tear down the international legal agreement? What exactly did you resent us for respecting domestic legislation and international law? What were we doing just as we could? Is it dacic's fault that he only acted as he could at that point? What did he do that you imposed on us as an obligation? Do you understand what I have to answer to today, people? The man said this morning, I remind you, I quote - he never entered into the north before the Brussels Agreement. Then we found it to be false. Then we found out they got in there on July 26th, 2011 and it was the biggest and most severe incident when ROSU came in. All of these after that were incomparably minor incidents. He says it was the only case. So I made it up a little bit that it wasn't, and then I remembered it was the only case. It is precisely because of this one case that these borders on Jarinj and Brnjak between Serbs and Serbs have established. That's exactly why only one case and they didn't need a second and a third. Here's what's happening to us the fifth time they've done it, and we haven't once set a new line between Serbs and Serbs. And we didn't accept or sign anything like that once. You're telling me to admit it's a mistake. It's a Brussels deal. You're fascinated and obsessed with the Brussels Agreement. You don't know what you'd say about the Brussels Agreement. I tried all the time to hear any remarks. The Brussels agreement gave us four mayors in northern Kosovo, internationally recognised for the first time since they had not been internationally recognised. Maybe that's funny to you. It's not funny to me at all. You've done something else internationally, something we've never done. This is the Republic of Serbia. Jojic knows this well. The Department of Justice and State Administration, the Department of Criminal Penalty, is otherwise signed under the decision of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, first for Flyor Brovina, which was released in 2000. Let me show you that paper too, so I don't have to read anything from fictional paper. This is the signing of the President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, at the time, but what we forgot to talk about and never said - sorry. He never said - I was wrong about it or these were mine. Subject: Execution of sentence for the convicted, please listen to me, not for those against whom the case is conducted, but for the convicted, Mazreku Ljuana, Mazreku Bekim and Albin Kurti. You and all of us forgot that then Albin Kurti as a convicted terrorist was in our hands, but by the decision of their three men, the Mazrek brothers, convicted of the rape, and for the rape, Nela, if I'm not mistaken, we never gave any acts of charity, charity, no one ever gave, but that's why they made a decision to release the justice convictions of the convicted Mazrek Ljuan, Mazrek Beki and Kurt Albin. This Albin Kurti, of Father Zaim, born in 1975, was transferred to the district prison in Nis. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison for a crime in Article 125. KZ SRJ. His sentence was due to expire in 2009, 27.1. However, due to a decision to pardon the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the number 112-03005/2001. Since 7 December 2001 he has been released from the sentence of prison and was fired from the Niš Penal Institute on the same day. Now let me tell you, I understand now, people, why they all day round and why Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci are living on me today. What if they attacked someone else? You people of terrorists who have been convicted for 15 years of the most serious crimes against our people have been released, convicted, not those against whom the proceedings are being conducted. They were in our prison for the maintenance of the sentence and were released from the maintenance of the sentence, and today they stand for the great Albania and they salt our brains. Now they're the main coalition partners with these or those. You say he has a secret plan. He's got a secret plan. There's no secret plan. You had a secret plan while the people thought you were fighting for Kosovo, while the people thought you respected the 2006 Constitution, and in 2008, you didn't even remember the Constitution. They declared an independent state of Kosovo while you were silent and you didn't write any texts, let alone anything else on this issue because it was important then whether Kostunica will beat Tadic or Tadic Kostunica, and not whether Kosovo and Metohija will leave anything behind. Let me tell you something, you're right about one thing -- Kosovo defends us, not even in territorial and geographical terms, not in terms of our historical heritage. You can see in Kosovo, it's true, everything we've done and everything we're going to do. You can see both honesty and honor, but you can see all the opposite of that in those most often called upon. You've put all this together nicely, talked about secret plans, chairs in the UN. What are you waving your hands for? Are you threatening something, or is it your habit to wave or have some other problem? Don't wave your hands. Don't wave your hands, I'll answer you precisely. I, unlike you, who gave them independence in 2008 and kept silent as the bays, trampled the Constitution of Serbia, which you brought, was against it and did not allow a chair into the UN to enter the Brussels Agreement, and I will not allow it in the future. But imagine people criticizing us for implementing the international legal treaty that they brought in. You guys ever heard of anything like that? Did you hear in some country that it happened? Show me, please, in which country it happened, that someone may attack you for such a thing that you respect international legal contracts that the previous authorities have accepted and signed. I've seen everything in my life, so we can't put these guys back in jail now, because we have to respect their decision that they're free citizens today, terrorists who let them out of prison. Not out of custody, but out of prison. They did not suspend the proceedings against them, but let the convicted terrorists go, with the judicial convictions convicted. To answer other people's questions. As for the Republika Srpska, let me not forget, that all the people may see what you are wrong with. For Republika Srpska, while respecting BiH's integrity, according to President Dodik and what other Republika Srpska officials say, both personally and the government of the Republic of Serbia, we have done more than all previous presidents and all previous governments combined. Because it wasn't the work of drilling into the chest and of the arguments that you're serving, whether we're going to respect international legal agreements, which some former government signed or not, but in how much we really helped them. So when Republika Srpska has a crisis, and it would be a miracle that there is no financial crisis, because it cannot have because of the political situation, a large number of investors, there is Serbia to help. And what did Serbia not do in earlier years? And why did Serbia not finance projects in earlier years in all Republika Srpska municipalities, as it can today? Why hasn't Republika Srpska marked all the significant dates in our history before with the Republic of Serbia, as we do today? And what had the authorities not previously worked with the Republika Srpska to create a memorial centre in Lower Gradina, so that we could make a pilgrimage place for all Serbs to know that we were killed in Jasenovac? Well, what did none of that do, that you didn't do any of it, but that left for me, a traitor to work on? If that is the measure of betrayal, I agree that I am everything you say, so times 10, because that means that I love Serbia much more and I appreciate freedom, which some have mentioned more than anything, because freedom has no greater and more important value for our people. General Vladisavljevic would like me to answer more, I have more of these papers from 2008 and 2009, General, there will be opportunities for that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dubravko Bojic has asked a question. Didn't I make a deep mistake in the name? (Dubravko Bojic: No. I'm sorry, it's okay. You said, "Why did I say yes?" "And am I disappointed in international friends?" No, for the little ones I know are friends. For these others, I know they have interests like we have interests. As for your key question - why do we keep playing with black figures? Well, we're forced and not just by black figures, Dubravko. Since I see you know chess, they've made us give a lady, but we don't move our pedestrians forward, but only the rate on the H line one forward and that's it for the black figures and the ladies and the cannon less. And you can't do it any other way. If you think we can play white figures even after the Kumanovo Agreement and after 2004 and after 2008 and in this system of forces in the world, it's not real. It's not even possible, it's just not real. Veroljub Stefanovic, it would be very important if we could talk realistically about the problems we face, it would lead us to be much more complicated. Unfortunately, you can see that in this situation that only I can't agree on is that it reminds me of that time in 1999, but it's true that we may need harmony and unity more, but it's always most important that we keep democracy and that everyone is allowed to say what they want, whatever they want, as long as they want. So I'm happy that some today could speak for more than half an hour and say everything they think and think and get an adequate answer. I'm very sorry about that. [[And I didn't get a line.]] And as for this... The Faith of Radeta: And it should be. I wrote it on Twitter. I got another line on Twitter, otherwise I don't have enough. Just let me tell Veroljub Stevanović something. If we could understand that we have a common future and that we have a common goal and a common interest, even if we see other political means that we need to come to, I'm sure we could have easily achieved that unity. This way, I'm afraid we won't reach it for much longer, and that will be another weak link in the defense chain of our national and state interests. Unfortunately, I can't change it, I can't, and I don't have that kind of power to do it. Someone said that in 2015, the ZSO began to form. Guys, I said that. We completed the agreements, signed the principles on the formation of the PSO, August 25. 2015. Nightmares since talks and negotiations with Albanians and the EU. Came out happy to announce to the people, to tell the people we got principles, we're going into formation of the PSO. And you're telling me that I'm guilty because Albanians and Europeans didn't want to do what was signed. It's my fault that I was gullible, that I thought international legal contracts were valid for everyone else as well as for us. That's my fault and responsibility. Thank you for that, I will always act like this, because what Serbia has signed, Serbia will fulfill it. That's how serious countries behave, that's how serious countries behave. I apologize and I am guilty of believing in the gravity of the EU that it will go through, but I am not the head of the European Commission or the head of the European Council or anything else, that I could have decided on it. I say this to them every day, so what now, that I should kill myself because they will not fulfill their obligation? We've been counting the days since they didn't do it. How many 2,200 days it's been, in the day we know. I don't understand what's our fault? What are we responsible for here? At the end of the day and all day yesterday, I didn't get an answer to that question. Yeah, we fight, make the best paper possible, I'm happy out, happy. I remember, I've got Pavlov's reflex when I go to Brussels, and I've never had anything nice to take me there. Anna went twice and something nice to happen, and I never, ever get taken there just to be tortured around Kosovo or anything else. I literally have Paul's reflex whenever I go there and it was my only good night. I went out and I'm still happy that I've achieved something that I can make Serbs happy. And now it's my fault that they didn't do it. (Anna Brnabic: President, when they agreed, that's where everyone ran to meet. When they negotiated, Pristina ran to fulfill. Anna would be much sharper than me. So, just one thing to tell you people, I want to tell the citizens of Serbia. People, seven years, so in seven years since the 1990s, we have come to the Kumanovo Agreement, in seven years after 2000, of all the stories that this is a democratic issue, only to replace Slobodan Milosevic. When Slobodan Milosevic is changed, we will easily solve the Kosovo problem. How many times have you heard that? How many times have you heard that? We've heard it from all of them a million times. Then they so democratically solved it, that in 2008, we got an independent Kosovo, and so we solved it with the 2006 Constitution that the preamble still stands for us, not for not listening to us in 2008. In 2008, we respected neither the preamble nor the spirit of the Constitution, nor the letter of the Constitution, we respected nothing. That's why you, Wolfe, 11 years later, you're guilty of it. Where are the people? Where's that? Let me see what else I have in my papers. Filip Stojanovic, who certainly suffered himself and the whole family, spoke, a prominent Serbian family from Gjilan, as well as a good part of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. We do not silence the suffering of Philip, on the contrary, we are talking about the suffering of our people. We don't silence the suffering of other peoples, but for the first time, someone can speak plainly and unequivocally about the suffering of our people, as you know. For the first time, it's never been the case before. That's why you, however hard it is for you to get through everything you've been through, I'm quite sure you feel proud, because someone can finally say what the Serbs have survived and what the Serbs have been through, and don't be afraid that someone will hit him over the head. They can beat me all they want, I'll keep telling the truth, and I'll keep fighting to know the truth about our people. We will not keep silent about Kosharam or Pastrick, nor will we keep silent about all our heroes who have laid their lives on the altar of the homeland, nor the misfortune of our people banished from Croatia, nor the misfortune of our people from many parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we will not pretend that there were no crimes on the other side and we will prosecute our criminals who have done so against other peoples. I think it's such a fair relationship, more open, more honest, better and fairer relationship than all the previous authorities had. I know you agree with it, I know what politics is, you won't say it, but I know that as a man you agree with. I know, I feel the pulse of a Serb people who sees it, who knows it. You know what the veterans told me, we still made some mistakes in the procedure, we left some people out of the column, because someone was afraid of whose reactions. These people told me -- nobody did this to us, we were left without hands and feet 20 years ago, no one told us no thanks, let alone someone to invite us to some event, not to give you anything, just to show you respect and to take off the hat for those heroes who have defended our people throughout the former Yugoslavia. I don't have a problem with that, I'm proud of it. Then they attacked me, mixed up two Lazarevics. Natasha, you told us about the decision to change and return from the UN to the EU, or Eulex. I got pictures of broken cars, destroyed trucks, completely destroyed trucks today from the Tooth Creek. I suppose you'll be able to see them, too. Everything you've got, NSO, FIT, whatever they're called, that new ROSU, everything they've done today. So, I just want to tell you that we had to respect here what the UN Resolution is and what was the letter of approval of President Tadic from 2008, 26 November 2008. So there's no change, there's no change now you want or you don't, it's the law for you and you have to respect it. So President Tadic responded to the UN secretary-general's letter, which otherwise required the Serbian government to respond to it, and without his letter, the Security Council could make a decision on the reconfiguration of UNMIK and the deployment of EULEX, but without his consent it would have been practically inconclusive because of the Russian Federation's announced veto on any decisions Serbia disagreed with. This was done, therefore, by his statement, in fact adopted a report by the secretary general on UNMIK's work since 24 November 2008. After that, we have nothing to do and what to look for. I can't tell you that I'm complaining about behavior either Federica Mogerini or Katherine Ashton. They led in a correct way, as far as possible, where, of course, we are always under more pressure than the other side. Who wants to tell you it's different is different. It's something that's completely clear. So, the situation for us is to get back to the score. The result is that we have kept peace, that we have not lost anything strategic in seven years, and in the seven most difficult years that are not to compare with that of the two-thousands or the one of the 1990s, because we had something, then there was neither independent Kosovo nor from the angle of Albanians nor from the corner of Americans or Europeans, today it is. In such impossible conditions, we have voted the most for the Serbian people, invested the most in KIM, invested the most in KIM, and we have not lost any of the key rights in the meantime, nor have we lost any of the levers of power. Why do you think I repeat the question, why today both Haradinaj and Thaci and all the Albanian media are attacking me with such sweetness and not attacking others? Why are they supporting my political opponents in Belgrade? Why do you think? Why are they more suited to them than I am? Can you just think about why? Tell yourself that, so sometimes it'd be fair to say that to the public, there's no coincidence of people. Perfectly, they recognize who it is that protects our national and state interests, as the Serbs at KIM do. They can drive them as much as they want to vote for someone else, they always know how and who to vote for. I won't answer again if there's only one more speaker. I want to thank all the MPs for their very correct and very serious and responsible discussion. Today has been a terribly difficult day because of what is happening in KIM and we will have many more difficult days, but I am sure that by talking, by dialogue, so why not by open disagreement, we can get closer to some common attitudes, to be more complex, to be more united, and to be able to protect our national and state interests even stronger. I'm gonna finish today the way I started. They've retired from northern Kosovo, I don't think that's why we should be much happier than this morning, because they're going to try it again, not once more, but many more times because it's their dream, their unfathomable dream, and that dream will remain untrusted. I will end by saying that we will all fight together for Serbia, for the interests of our people at KIM, for the interests of our country, and as I have said, I am a man known for a character that does not radiate with optimism, but rather vice versa, but I am absolutely sure that we will make conditions more wise, more serious, and more responsible, that from the impossible we can achieve as much as we can for our country and our people, and we lose the least that we have to. That means Serbia will win. Thank you very much. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-28-0.u55270	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have the time per article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure. Is anyone picking up? (No) I'm finishing the search. I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Director of the Office for Kosovo and the Metohija of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its associates, of course, especially thanks to all MPs who took part in the work of this session and in the discussion. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Tuesday, 28 May 2019, starting at 17pm and 15 minutes, as the day for voting the single item of the agenda of the 20nd special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Please stay in the O.R., just so the ministers can leave the O.R. [[After a break.]] Please take your seats to join the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for work, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly, as you know. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Report, we are moving to a decision. I put the report on Kosovo and Metohija to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – four abstentions – there is no vote, not 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the Report on Kosovo and Metohija. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has carried out a discussion of the only item on the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the twenty-second special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Dear MPs, tomorrow's session starts at 10:00 p.m. Please, immediately after considering seven, eight amendments, we will approach the vote. Tomorrow's the last day of work in this session. Thank you.
