ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session was called on Monday, past Article 87, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure, due to the need to consider the proposals and decisions contained in the agenda set out in the request of 161 Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of the 161 MP, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution, in Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. At the meeting of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SDPS parliamentary group; 2. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the MEP; 3. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the members of the RIK, which was submitted by the MEP; 4. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's chief prosecutor; 5. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been filed by the State's chief prosecutor; 6. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 7. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 8. Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Republic Election Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic, proposed to conduct a joint single search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the MP group SDPS, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has submitted a parliamentary group of SMS and a proposal for amendments to the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputy members of the RIK, who submitted a parliamentary group of SMS and, second, a proposal for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor from 14 June, a proposal for a decision on the election of a deputy public prosecutor from 3 June, a proposal for a decision on the election of judges to be elected on the first time at the judge's office. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 146 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. We are going to work on the established agenda of this session. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the first three points of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? That's Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Tatjana Macura. No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57334	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under some normal circumstances, these points of the agenda are not discussed. At the beginning of each assembly, it is mathematically determined how much the political station belongs to seats on the assembly committees and, of course, every political party proposes whoever it wants and is mostly not discussed and the usual practice was that all MPs were on such proposals and voted regardless of which parties. Unfortunately, we have a specific situation here and, first of all, the public has to say something about it. If the assembly majority had listened to the SRS appeals since the beginning of this call and, as usual, we have brought the Rules of Procedure, we would not have had such a situation today, but unfortunately the congregation majority has shown its kind of arrogance and behavior by the system we may have, we have most of the MPs and we will do as we think. The consequences of this are very bad for parliamentary democracy and we have a few words to say about it, and it is exclusively about this draft agenda. Problems in the functioning of assembly parliamentary groups have arisen since DS Boris Tadic misused the Constitutional Court and when the Constitutional Court made an unconstitutional decision to have MPs, although none of the MPs in this room used their name and last name to compete with the citizens of Serbia, we were all part of certain lists or coalitions and those lists, or coalitions, represented their political programmes and these political programmes elected voters and voters as they voted. What was the voter's will was partly at the beginning of this call. So, not entirely, I'll explain why I said it in part. That is why we think it is still not too late that in a future meeting, which will come very soon, so that we do not have the same problems, that the most urgent way to accept the SRS proposal on amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs and return to that law is the provision of Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that every MP has the opportunity to make his mandate available to the party who chose him as a MP. This means that those who think that the mandates belong to the MPs, such a thing would not ask their MPs, and those political parties who are convinced that in the proportional electoral system all mandates belong exclusively to lists competing in the elections, would certainly ask their MPs to sign such statements, the SRS would. What other problem arises at the beginning of this National Assembly, this call, and what good work has led to the situation in which the National Assembly is operating today? We reminded ourselves that two groups didn't cross the censorship and that's a fact. Whether they lacked one promil, one percent, or one vote to cross the census is absolutely irrelevant. The important thing is that they have not crossed the censorship and that those who have not crossed the census are causing chaos in the functioning of the National Assembly. And I guess it is clear to the assembly majority that they made a big mistake to accept US Ambassador Scott's proposal, and to introduce this group around Bosko Obradovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and this Aleksic into the Assembly. Not just them, but I'm apostropheisting them, and I'm going to explain why they're doing it. When we said that Bosko Obradovic was an American man, that he was inserted into a so-called national electoral body, they didn't believe us. We even had problems with some members and in our party, they said as much as possible, so Bosko is a nationalist. Now I guess they should have seen it at the American Embassy and figured out who Bosko Obradovic really is. But I wouldn't be talking about him in that sense right now, but in terms of what's going on in the National Assembly, which is why today we have to discuss something that has never been a topic of debate, but merely a topic of voting. When they entered the National Assembly, when they were introduced into the National Assembly, we had certain parliamentary groups, which at that time corresponded to the lists that went to the elections. Very soon, Sandu Raskovic Ivić was driven away from her party and imagine, she took no less than the mandate of her party, and was president and then, with that mandate, walked under the mouse from one party to another, and I guess for now, she settled in with Vuk Jeremic. She also passed that Sasha, what's her name, Jankovica, and I don't know who she's with, who she's been supporting, and now she's like the vice president of that Vuk Jeremic. And imagine, the other day, news came up, said Vuk Jeremic - we submitted the amendment, but I guess it wasn't taken into consideration. The Wolf Jeremic submitted an amendment for something in the National Assembly, just amazing. A man who, neither participated in the elections nor had, nor bought at that time was still a party. The second case, i.e. the second problem that arises, is what Bosko Obradovic is doing. He separated part of the MPs, formed a parliamentary group, he doesn't have a parliamentary group today, and that's why we have an increased number, I don't know if the president of the National Assembly and the secretary know every morning until they check how many of us in the Assembly have the so-called freedoms. MPs. How many and what kind of parliamentary groups do we have? It's just impossible to know. And the fact that we have twenty or twenty-twenty MPs who are now some kind of standoffs, whatever that means, is also a big con voter, because these people who are elected on some lists cannot represent voters in an adequate time, compared to the time she received that list. Em, they cut that list off the time for the debate, but they have to race, 24 of them, as many as there are, who's going to get to the office first, to file a request so I can speak, they don't know whose name. What else do we have? We have this Alexic who is also pushed into the National Assembly, who did not come by the will of the citizens of the National Assembly, and this Alexic imagine her, so what is happening to us is not on the globe and beyond. He sold his party and now someone's wondering how the party can be sold? It's very simple. Vuk Jeremic had no will, no desire, no capacity, no party structure to collect 10,000 signatures throughout Serbia to register the party. He only has money won, here we see, the D.A.'s dealing with how he thinks money can do anything. No, democracy cannot be bought with money in an even democratic society, as much as it has been misused in Serbia, it must be put to the end and the assembly's current majority and members of the most serious and major political parties in parliament, the opposition Serbian Radical Party, must be put to rest. We are always for it, that if there is something to be done to bring parliamentary democracy back to the National Assembly, to restore the reputation of the National Assembly, to do everything we can as MPs, and we have done it already, here it has been three and a half years since we've been in the National Assembly. So and then this Vuk Jeremic can't form a party, and he'd like to go to the election and then he makes a nice deal with that Alexic who was put in here, Scott put it in there, and he came over the list of Boris Tadic or whatever, and then they just make a transge-frange combination, he as some kind of organ of his party met somewhere. That nobody could even check it, or check it out, and maybe five, six people managed to buy it too to make such a decision and they made a good decision that the president and legal representative of the party was no longer that Alexic, as his name was Miroslav, but that it was Vuk Jeremic. And of course, the ministry acts in accordance with the law when it gets such information, the ministry has to register it, and we today have such a single party that is created in a way that really the parties don't. There were various ways of coming to parties, buying mandates, and the SRS felt it when it happened to us 10 years ago. Then almost everyone supported the need to break the neck of the then SRS, that it should stop us from winning power, and we were on the verge of it, and then everyone was ready to step footing the constitution and famous legalists of the DSS then, we will never forget it and we must never forget it, have, with their absence with the Assembly's Administrative Board, allowed the vote to take away our mandates. Then when there was public reading in that small hall, I had to remind the MPs who were not at the time, and here there were those who were then, when there was a public reading of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, when it was already ordered that the Constitutional Court should abolish that provision, imagine abolishing in the law a provision prescribed by the Constitution, never seen. In the course of this debate Gordana Komic, then the perjanica of the whole process, runs into this small hall and remembers everyone who was, shows "The Official Messenger", still hot from the press, before she appeared in public, Gordana Comić had it in her hands and says: "Here it is, the Constitutional Court's decision to delete this provision of the Law on the selection of MPs and from that moment on, the MPs are the owners of the mandate. What do we have today? We have proposals to amend some members of the board and RIK. We have a proposal from the SDPS parliamentary group that we have nothing to talk about, the SDPS is part of this parliament, they have their own parliamentary group, they have their reasons to change some of the MPs in a certain committee, to choose some others. We know that this is due to what Meho Omerovic was headed by this Committee on National Minorities, etc. But we're not going to spread the story to it right now. Me and Meh are done. So we won't even talk about this proposal from this parliamentary group that only uses its parliamentary right, and it's normal to vote for such proposals and vote for the whole assembly. But we do have something that is really not normal, the president of the parliamentary group, in a people known as SMS, and as the official Party of Modern Serbia. Tatjana Macura suggests that we change members of some committees, determine new board members and do the same for RIK. Dear fellow MPs, I really don't know if any of you will vote for this. This party did not exist at the time of the Republic elections. This party did not participate in the elections. Tatjana Macura, who is represented here as president of a parliamentary group now, has been elected to the party list enough. The party won a number of seats by the will of the citizens. The fact that they're making a circus in the National Assembly, it's their legitimate right, we all represent ourselves from here to the citizens for future elections, but this party, or this parliamentary group, is now broken into several groups where we have some free MPs, etc. So, some general papaziania was made. Come on, we have to put up with all this because we haven't arranged for the Rules of Procedure, but imagine you, says Tatjana Macura, the president of that SMS party, that she proposes, for example, to relieve the duties of members of the Committee of the National Assembly MPs, for example Branka Stamenkovic and Sasa Radulovic, who are still members of the parliamentary group that they have, but the parties have had enough anyway. Where's the legitimacy for a proposal like this? Well, she could well have written that she suggested that on some committee, Aleksandar Martinovic, Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanovic, Aleksandar Markovic, not to mention, so she could put whoever she wanted. What's she got to do with the party enough? How can she and her SMS party, modern, be very modern, how can they demand that members of the board be relieved of the MPs of another political party? This is really something that is amazing, and then, of course, it suggests and they propose some MPs that she has managed to frame, to build a parliamentary group, so as long as you happen to decide on the parliamentary majority, then vote for these proposals, count on you to have a similar proposal in 10 days, two, who knows how many times there will be on this side to make new parliamentary groups, to move from one, out of the other, etc. So, this is a mockery of the Rules of Procedure, whatever it is, this is the act of the Constitution, this is an act of parliamentary democracy, this is a mockery of the National Assembly. The National Assembly and the MPs of the majority must not, and I believe they will not, agree to something like this. Here, I ask, did anyone talk to Branko Stamenkovic and Sasa Radulovic, I don't know if Branislav Mihajlovic is still in the party, this Ana Stevanović is not even at Macura, she's probably somewhere with Vuk Jeremic or Djilas, I don't know where any of them are anymore, did anyone talk to them to ask if they know that there will be no more members of some assembly committees where they've been since the beginning of this call? Did anyone ask them if they were okay with it? Who was Mrs. Tatjana Macura consulted in the first place, and where did she find the source of the right to do something like this, from her own personal right? So, the SRS thinks it's not too late to change the Rules of Procedure, that things like this can't happen to us anymore, that the majority of the assembly can't possibly vote for these proposals, because this would really be legalization of total lawlessness. We continue to regret that you in the congregation's majority do not accept the very well-intentioned SRS proposals. We've all known each other for a long time, you know that we've always fought for parliamentary democracy, that in this National Assembly we've experienced things to fight for our vote. You know as well as I do that before they were Democrats, that they changed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly three times to make it impossible for us to talk, to do it the way we did it, and of course we do it, we do it, we use the Rules of Procedure as bad as it is, but it's not a good thing that you don't accept our suggestions. We never do anything against the state, on the contrary, we always try to contribute by our work to strengthening the state, strengthening state institutions. You'd better accept our suggestions, so let's get together some important things in the functioning of the National Assembly. It is better than waiting for Sam Fabrizio to appear to you, that you must again hold that national convention for the EU, and there are those who organised Mirdita, so those from the Natasa Kandic Fund, etc. Then it turns out in public that you have to listen to them, instead of using the capacity of MPs, MPs' groups that are legitimate and legal in this National Assembly and that these things don't happen to us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57335	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Is there anyone else who can come forward? Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Assembly is composed of 250 MPs, who need to have the same rights and obligations, the same rights and the same obligations. On board membership, most of us are members of one or two committees or we are deputies. Mostly, this membership on the committees is based on the strength, the number of forces of the parliamentary groups, not even on the results of the elections, but on the strength of the parliamentary groups. The DJB parliamentary group, DJB, was not a party but an association of citizens, who as a group of citizens went to the polls, gained the right to a parliamentary club, the parliamentary club achieved, based on the number of MPs, the right to represent in the bodies of the National Assembly. It seemed to me that there were 18 MPs. If one of the MPs had 18 MPs, and it fell apart, and reminding me that her leader was being defended by making here a real invasion of the parliamentary benches I'm sitting in, and they spit on me so modern and cursed my dead mother so modernly, it must have been ultra modern. All that aside, all those animosities, but I don't understand how a parliamentary group with five or six members, I don't know how many now, can inherit the rights of a parliamentary group that had 18 MPs. So, all to take the inheritance right in the National Assembly, that the MP club that fell apart, that newly formed clubs have the right, on the basis of the number of MPs to inherit board membership, all to assume that we can push that rule through, I don't understand how the rights that had 18 MPs can now retain six MPs? So, if they had four memberships, it seems to me in committees, four alternate seats, that as a parliamentary group they have the right to both a member of the RIK and a deputy member of the RIK, which is what parliamentary groups that have five members, as we do in the parliamentary group that I belong to, we do not have those rights. So on the one hand, you have MPs who will have two or three times more rights, or representations on boards and on the electoral committee, and on the other hand we have us who will not be equal to them. For these reasons, do not delay the right of parliamentary groups, regardless of what came to the elections as a group of citizens, and now the members of the Social Democratic Union must have changed the name, it seems to me to be Lekovic's party, which in the elections did not win mandates, all sides, to admit that the party instead of the association of citizens, the parliamentary group, etc., has the right to inherit from the previous group, but to exercise the right of five MPs, the rights that had 18 MPs, for me, is unacceptable and I cannot vote for this kind of decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57337	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57338	I don't think anyone has to be mentioned by name, but I'm not going to discuss what's right to a replica, the chairman knows that. Indeed, one way to approach this problem and decide not to vote is that one part of that former parliamentary group cannot assume on itself neither the rights nor the obligations of the entire parliamentary group. Here, we ask - why didn't Ana Stevanović, who is now at Gilas, suggest something like this? So, I just want to confirm what I said in this first part, to draw the ruling majority's attention to whatever some of the perhaps formal reasons that make you vote for this, that you need to be even more formal, and see that there's no reason for that. We can't open Pandora's box, we'll be dealing with this kind of thing until the end of this term. This is just the beginning. You know, when it happened in 2008, Zoran Krasic almost once a week told Tadic's Democrats: "You put a rock in your shoe with radicals, you hung a stone around your neck. We shall cast out the rock, and the stone shall lead to the bottom." And that's what happened. That's why we have to take care of it. Regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court is then misused, we must keep an eye on and return the most urgently to the law provisions of Article 102, paragraph 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and allow the parties, the electoral lists to ask people who are on the list to make their mandate available to the party who is running them in the elections. If we don't, we're not gonna get rid of this kind of trouble who knows how long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57339	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57340	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will agree with my colleagues in most of what they said. So, this is a seemingly technical change and so far it hasn't been discussed, but I think we should finally learn from what happened in the previous period, so that we don't have such things happening in the period ahead of us. Someone mentioned whether or not we spoke to colleagues from an MP's group. We didn't talk because they don't want a dialogue in parliament and we don't have a chance to talk. They're talking to us through press conferences, through a political monologue here in the assembly hall. This is not a way to discuss and discuss serious topics, especially serious topics that have been launched today, which were launched during this debate. The dialogue was conducted, will be conducted today in parliament, as parliament is the place where legitimately elected citizens' representatives get mandate and trust of citizens, assume the obligation and responsibility to carry out a very responsible job. I repeat, legitimately elected representatives of citizens. The dialogue is still being conducted in parliament today, though one part of the opposition does not participate in parliament's work. To be perfectly precise, one part of the opposition, realizing how hopeless and pointless the decision on the boycott of parliament was, did not participate in the boycott of parliament, because they have experience. The second part of the opposition that participated in parliament's work, realizing the error of such a political decision, has returned and is participating in parliament's work. And the rest of the opposition seems to me to be still searching for a way to return to parliament, aware that they made a certain mistake when they made such a political decision. Because to be clear, all that is happening today in Serbia has been seen long ago, and the boycott of parliament and protests and the mourning of Serbia abroad, but nothing good has ever done Serbia. Therefore, it cannot bring political points to those who do so in the short term or in the long term, and it sends a bad picture from Serbia, right at the moment when key issues are addressed which are of paramount importance and importance in defending national and state interests. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been mentioned a little while. It is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, that the greatest criticisms at the expense of the Rules of Procedure on Labour come from that and so on. The alliance, I no longer know what his name is, comes from people who participated in the construction and definition of procedures of such a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. To be clear, there is no ideal Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but as chairman, we always try to make one balance, respecting the right positions on the one hand and opposition on the other. I'll quote Nikola Pasic. He said a long time ago, when you are in power, you make laws that will benefit you, even when you are in opposition. It seems to me that those who aren't here today didn't get that quote right, thought they were irreplaceable, immutable and passed laws the way they wanted and how they fit at that point, and that's why they have a problem with the Rules of Procedure themselves today. Many, ladies and gentlemen, are open questions when we speak specifically of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The president of parliament has rightly raised one of the questions, precisely what it was just a few moments ago. So the MP comes from one election list after the elections to parliament, then changes one parliamentary group, the third parliamentary group, the fourth parliamentary group, and you no longer know how many independent MPs you have, and how many parliamentary groups you have in the republican parliament, which is certainly not good. Another key question for us is when we talk about the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, our halls are empty. There are those of us who want to be responsible, serious and committed to doing our job, because it is our duty to the citizens. Parliament is the voice of the people, Parliament is the place where we talk about alternatives to how to get as high-quality legal solutions as possible that will be in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia, but on the other hand, the benches are empty and it sends a bad picture to the public about the work of the republican parliament. Here is the question of how to impose an obligation on MPs who have received the mandate and trust of citizens, but to put it aside now, they are getting paid here, they are raising travel costs here, how to impose an obligation to attend sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, in 2000, when DOS came to power, everything that seemed and worked until 2000, during the period of power of Slobodan Milosevic, it was not good, everything was red and nothing was right, and they were supposed to affirm what was good. I agree, there were mistakes, our biggest mistake was that we weren't aware of these mistakes when we were in power, but after that, but they were supposed to affirm what was good, specifically the Rules of Procedure of the work of the time. At the time of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, I will remind you, colleagues who have long been in the multilateral system and who have long been in parliament, I think you too, Mr Arsic, remember that the Rules of Procedure at the time were very clear and precise, that every moment there must have been 126 MPs in the hall and that when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure at the same time, the National Assembly pleads on the injured of the Rules of Procedure. There are a number of open issues to be considered in the next period of time. Of course, the question that we are talking about today cannot be solved only through the Rules of Procedure, but also through amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. When the last amendments and additions were adopted, it is true that the Constitutional Court made a decision, as it is, that the term of office belongs to the MP. It is true that certain suggestions of the professional public have been respected, but at that point, at least on our part, it has been seen as a transitional solution, because there have been many open questions that require answers. Some of those questions we've managed to solve, some unfortunately we haven't. For us at the time, the key question was, it is not disputed if the Constitutional Court has decided that the term of office belongs to the MP, but let's look at how to prevent this mandate from being the subject of political trade in a future period of time, because political stability is important. For each of the next governments, political stability is important, this violates political stability. Political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress, any area we talk about. We in Serbia have a proportional electoral system. I believe, the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, that this is political reality at the moment. On the other hand, none of us, with all due respect to our colleagues, did not take part in the elections by name, were the leaders of our political options on the ballot. So why is the electoral list led by the leader of the political option or the leader of the coalition, why are political parties in some way being demoted? I think that's the subject we need to discuss as well. Let's talk about everything that can improve parliamentary democracy and the development of parliamentary democracy in Serbia. We're ready to talk about it. We are ready to discuss everything that can improve the existing processes in Serbia, but we are not ready to talk about it on the street and under the tent, but where the dialogue is being conducted in parliament. Looking at the demands of the so-called. The opposition, or the Alliance, as it is already called, I see that one of the demands is that they control the media, through the RTS editorial policy, through REM, whether or not to control the work of electronic media, one of the demands is the change of election procedures. Be careful now, the changes in election procedures require those who have defined these electoral procedures and say – we want fair and democratic elections. What does that mean? If we had unfair and undemocratic elections in 2008, because we were talking about these very electoral procedures, correct me if I'm wrong, and we went to the polls. To be clear, as far as they're concerned, I'm not going to pay too much attention because they're not here, but I'm going to say just one sentence, there is no electoral procedure that would put such a political option back into these assembly benches and that would lead such a political option to power. We can talk for days, nights, years, but there is no such election procedure. I can see there are threats. They say either fair and democratic elections, or revolutions. We will have fair and democratic elections, and as far as the revolution is concerned, we weren't afraid of you that October 5, 2000, do you think we're afraid of you 19 years after that? We pointed to all of this because the SPS was the first, again let the corrections of colleagues who had long participated in the life of the multi-party political system, the SPS had the first bitter experience in 2003 or 2004, when its mandates were taken and when it was headed by a parliamentary group by Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, then the mandates of the SPS were kidnapped. The Socialist Party of Serbia had a bitter experience a year and a half or two ago when a parliamentary mandate was kidnapped, I don't mean the SRS because it has this attitude forever, but I think of these colleagues who address us through a press conference, why they didn't react then. Then why didn't they make any suggestions and any suggestions? We were saying that this bitter experience would not happen to other political parties, for the sake of political stability, let us talk about this topic. Otherwise, it's true, let's remember the election night, let's remember the pressures that existed on RIK's work, let's remember those unkind scenes when brave people, strong people attacked women, because they usually attack women, unfortunately. We also remember who gathered at that time on that stage to support a coalition that had to pass the censorship because they lacked several hundred votes, I think. So someone had to gather all of them, and that's where I totally agree. So much for fair and democratic elections. If it's fair and democratic elections, it's an honor. So, we express our willingness to talk and also talk about the creation of a new Rules of Procedure on Labour, and the development of a fundamental reform of electoral legislation. It is that it is not popular in the election year to do, but we are ready to talk about it, but what is the essence it can't be a reflection of the current political moment, because we had it in the period behind us and you see what kind of situation we've come into. This cannot be a reflection of the current political moment, so that each ruling coalition brings the Rules of Procedure as it deems necessary, adopts electoral legislation as it deems necessary. I think we need as wide a consensus as possible of all relevant political factors in order to come to a common acceptable and universal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57341	Right on the line, the People's Messenger, the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57342	I said in my first report, but here's an example of the SRS showing what we have suffered and suffered and suffered for the work of respect and struggle for our democratic rights in the National Assembly. My colleague, she didn't have that case to take their mandates, it was the first of the revolution, but after the fifth of October's revolution. In 1994, Serbian Radical Foreigners were kidnapped in the then federal and republican parliament, Jovo Glamocanin was headed by those who then went and there was evidence and even some TV shows footage of them taking money, so bought people. But it's always kind of a congregation majority when it's in their best interests, actually the congregational majority always do, and then when it's in their best interests, you keep quiet, and when it comes to being threatened in any way, then it comes as a problem. We Serbian radicals are proud of the fact that we are the political party, perhaps the only one on the political scene of Serbia that has never taken anyone's mandate. We respect the will of the citizens, respect the election results, whatever it is. We have never dealt with politics because of day-to-day politics and because we would win some sympathy for those elections, we always do it in the best interests of Serbian citizens and we always do it in the National Assembly, respecting the maximum democratic principles. We've been forced into some things, but we've always been guided by the team that parliamentary democracy is sacred. We have a serious history of parliamentaryism, we Serbs, and now we have allowed this kind of chaos in parliament, after so many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57343	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on line, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57344	I had no information that this happened in 1994, simply, I could not have had that information, unfortunately, because of my age, or fortunately, because of my age, but I was talking about a period after 2000 and coming to the DOS authorities and I reminded myself of the bitter experience that the Socialist Party of Serbia had, when its mandates were literally kidnapped, and at that point you know very well, I was not in parliament at the time but I followed political developments, you will agree with me, it was not known how many MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether DOS has 170, 180 or 300 and some MPs. So much for fair and democratic elections and fair and democratic atmosphere and strengthening parliamentaryism in Serbia since 2000. You know, I'll agree with you, not sitting alone, and I would say so, and not wanting to participate in Parliament's work, not just today, but when we talk about something that is life issues, let's say, Tijana's law, when we talk about something that is issues of national and state interest, the report on Kosovo and Metohija, clearly says that this part of the political group that does not appear in the Assembly hall is not in politics for the sake of politics, which are citizens of Serbia and the future of Serbia's citizens, but are in politics because of their own personal interests. Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57345	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57346	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this united principle debate, we first have proposals on the selection of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly. MPs' groups propose candidates for members and deputy board members in proportion to the number of MPs from the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. Of course, the National Assembly will decide in voting day. I'd like to remind you of some things that the committees of the National Assembly are responsible for. The committees are considering draft laws and other acts, they are monitoring the implementation of the government's policies, they are monitoring the enforcement of laws and other acts, they are considering the work plan and the report of the ministries or other state bodies, they are considering the work programme of the National Assembly, they are agreeing on the acts of the state authorities, they are launching initiatives and they are submitting proposals, they are considering the presentations and other issues of the National Assembly's competence. So, as much as we, on the one hand, may sometimes consider such proposals to be just formalities, it is still an important issue in the functioning of the National Assembly. Today, we also have a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members. So RIK makes president and makes it another 16 members appointed by the National Assembly on the proposal of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. The extended composition will, of course, work when the time comes, be made up of representatives of voters, and the National Assembly will appoint members and deputies of members in the permanent composition. Decisions taken from today's agenda, i.e. from this joint debate, have been proposed in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 167 and 168. Rules of Procedure. What I still wanted to say, even though the proposal has been submitted by some other parliamentary groups, again, every opportunity is used for unfounded attacks on Alexander Vukic, on the SNS, on the SNS parliamentary group, and why I have mentioned this now - I will explain to you who is doing this. This is what that MP who performed performances here at the beginning of his term playing guitar, singing, balloons and acting circus, making a circus out of the National Assembly, which is done by that MP named Sasa Radulovic, I am free to say his name and last name, who is not found fit to come to parliament and talk with all MPs in parliament. He sent Branko Stamenkovic, who held a press conference in the lobby, and of course it is legitimately the right of every MP to hold a press conference, and now we are talking about some things from the National Assembly's lobby, so we have to practically feel an obligation to look back at these conferences. So, the charges were very clear and the charges applied to Alexander Vukic, and to the SNS, as they took mandates from Enough was enough, and as it was a dangerous precedent, because, and I will now quote a colleague - members are from parties that did not exist in 2016. I really don't know if Branka Stamenkovic, or whether everyone from enough, remembers that Sasa Radulovic, who made a dangerous precedent in the National Assembly, is the one who shut down one parliamentary group with his own will, and then decided to build another parliamentary group, with the same name. So, I think in the history of Parliamentism of this National Assembly, there have been two parliamentary groups, with the same name. That way, it was he who was playing with the election will of the citizens, as it suits him. Come on, today I'll be with some MPs in one of the MPs' groups, tomorrow I'll be with some other MPs in another assembly. Sasa Radulovic, in fact, is the first MP to have just traded mandates, and traded MPs, and all because of the privileges that exist in the formation of the parliamentary group itself, because of the privileges someone gets because he is head of the parliamentary group. As he attended the sessions, he made it very clear that his appearances in this House and his address and his speeches had absolutely nothing to do with ideology or with some programme, which is why some citizens voted for even enough. So there are absolutely no charges that the ruling majority is ending the electoral list of citizens, and that is a very difficult accusation, it is also a heavy accusation and it is not true that the SNS, is taking mandates or taking mandates, especially not from Enough, because it does not take mandates from anyone. I will also refer to counterpart Stamenkovic's statement, which said they are the loudst opposition in the assembly. As far as I can see, we have an opposition in the Assembly that we can discuss both the draft laws and the proposals for decisions that are on the agenda, whether they are the loudst opposition in the Assembly, by not coming and by showing such irresponsibility both to this Parliament and to the citizens, who have shown them some respect in the elections, we will not even talk about it. Another thing that I wanted to look back on, which may have attracted the most to me, is that Committee membership, they claim that membership is assigned to the election lists rather than to the parliamentary groups. They also claimed it for the formation of RIK, because today we have the RIK agenda. counterpart Branka Stamenkovic first called for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I will now show everyone and this is something we received at the beginning of our term. It says on the cover - the collection of regulations and the first, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is inside. Absolutely not the things that Branka Stamenkovic was called upon, and of course the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also speaks of the electoral right, where it is said that every full-time business citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to choose and to be elected, the formation of the RIK is also not mentioned, but the choice of MPs is said to be elected by the President of the Republic 90 days before the end of the National Assembly's term, etc. In Article 102, in the last position, point 4 states well – choice, termination of office and the position of Members of Parliament is governed by the Law. I have to tell you, I have to admit that I'm a little embarrassed to be talking about these things, because I didn't think I'd be in a situation where someone who's an MP in the National Assembly doesn't know the provisions of the Constitution, that he doesn't know the provisions of the law by which he's chosen to be an MP in the National Assembly, and that's the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament. Therefore, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs makes it clear that RIK is formed and that RIK is formed on a proposal from parliamentary groups. If we went one step further, then we would have just concluded how much ignorance this is, because the co-worker and her colleagues from Radulovica could have read the Law on Local Elections, which also says that a municipal, or city Electoral Commission is being formed. These electoral commissions are formed in a way that represents, or depicts, the composition of parliament at the moment they are formed. So, in order not to turn this into an election process class right now, I'm just going to say in the end that there are absolutely no charges directed to Alexander Vukic and the SNS to take over anyone's mandates, because, you know, ladies and gentlemen, we don't need that. We'll meet at the next election that's coming soon, so you'll see who the citizens will give their trust to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57347	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Professor Yokic, you wanted a replica? (Mihailo Jokic: Yes, yes. If he can. Here you go, Professor Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57348	To solve all these problems, to change the way the MPs are elected. If we go back to the majority system and we choose MPs by the majority system, all these problems that you've been talking about, my predecessors said, they'll be resolved, or they'll be nonexistent. So I suggest that we think seriously about this and go back to the quorum, that there must be 126 MPs present at any moment, as you have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57349	Thank you, Professor Yokic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57350	The way Sasa Radulovic behaves and behaves in the National Assembly is his right and cannot possibly be the basis for anyone to say or to think that he does not belong to some right that belongs to the MP of the people. We talked about Saša Radulovic at the time when he was elected and when he was Minister of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic. We didn't have a different opinion then than we do now, and we don't think we're saying anything positive about Sasha Radulovic now, because we don't think she's got the right of Tatjana Macura, who, too, played with him when they played and sang there in the hall, and she was part of that orchestra and how she, I guess, sings better, so she's okay now or because she's back in parliament is okay, and he's not. So, don't people, let's be principled. There is no basis for someone to ask to be resolved from a place on the Committee an MP who is not a member of his parliamentary group. It doesn't exist. How did she choose these very MPs selected by that Mrs. Macura? You can defend yourself as much as you want, but you made a situation a few days ago for the MP to take an oath and say, "Enough has been done" was chosen by him and her, instead of there, to go there. So we're talking about something that's facts. We don't want the story going that way now. We just want to distract you that you have to... We have proposed in October the amendment of the Election Law absolutely in accordance with the Constitution. Come on, there's still time to talk about it, so this situation doesn't happen again. Let it go now, you're talking here, my colleague is reading what is the authority of the Committee. Well, don't. We've been here a long time to get us so someone... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57351	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic: Here you are, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57352	I just wanted to say that what I was talking about was the responsibility of the Committee of the National Assembly only represents the introduction of my speech and I now believe that none of the MPs would have to go so far into the details of what introduction I gave to my speeches. To be clear, I did not say that Sasa Radulovic had no right to something because he played guitar and sang in the National Assembly, nor did I say that Tatjana Macura sings better, so now she has the right to submit a proposal for it. Simply, there are the rights of the MPs of the people who are equal to all the MPs of the people. All MPs are exercising their right and, in accordance with that, probably, we can all submit proposals from each parliamentary group on what we consider relevant and interesting. So let's not banalize things now and stick to something, grab onto something that really doesn't stand. By commenting on a press conference for Branka Stamenkovic, I was only drawn to this ignorance of how RIK was formed. What I wanted to explain was that there is no downside for this debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57353	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Right on the line, the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57354	We can accept it all, but we haven't heard from the legal basis? Where does it say? Here's to simplify, that one MP from some parliamentary group may request a shift from any place of president, or representatives of another political party. The president's shift, as requested here, could be requested by the vice president, as my shift was sought. All of it can, it's part of the procedure, but this is how someone says from a committee asking to replace an MP who's not in his parliamentary group, it's never been seen. Here, we just liked to see where it says it. Here, maybe I don't know the Rules of Procedure, so to tell me where it says it, nothing more. So, we're not standing here on the side of the DJ, or Tatiana Macura's side, but we're just on the side of the Rules of Procedure, Law and Law, nothing more than that. There's no need to spread the story now, to turn to which side, we just want to know why you, if you're going to vote, are going to vote for this. Here, there are no colleagues of Arsic here now. On behalf of the National Assembly, he held talks at the beginning of this call for distribution and places in RIK and distribution of committees and committee presidents and so on. Does he remember? I don't remember, I was here on behalf of the SRS. That text never showed up, it wasn't part of those quotas, it wasn't part of those conversations, that's all we're talking about. If they have formed a parliamentary group, the Rules of Procedure allow them, let them, but it does not give them the right to participate now. If this is going to be accepted, then we have to sit down now and bring it all down to zero, get back in the hat and sit down and share time in the National Assembly and board seats and RIK and everything. So, you have to do this, it just can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57355	Thank you. Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more... In fact, since we no longer have registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word. Excuse me, colleague Marijan Rističević called. My colleague Rističević, did you want a violation of the Rules of Procedure or a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57356	Mr. Chairman, I have the right to another part of my authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57357	I'm sorry, I didn't understand. You have the right to the second part of the authority? Yeah. ) You have when we finish the order, when we finish the list, because we have a list of registered Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57358	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57359	Comrade Arsic, you wanted a replica? (Yes) The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that when this assembly of the National Assembly was formed, when we discussed these committees, I spoke to representatives of the MPs of the list because, above all, I felt that if they could agree on a list, to agree on the appointment of candidates for MPs, to agree on an election campaign, it would be a turn to agree on the composition of the Assembly's working bodies, the composition of delegations. Our Rules of Procedure does not treat MPs' lists as the basis, but treats MPs' groups. Of course, every MP in the course of verifying his mandate determines which parliamentary group he will be in, whether he will be around that list from which he has been elected or within another list, or whether there are several parliamentary groups within one electoral list, I will not go into it, but the Rules of Procedure have been enabled and done so. It is now that certain parliamentary groups do not exist or have completely fallen apart from the ranks of the former regime, yet they have left some members of certain congregation working bodies there. Are we going to view this as a contemplative state and let it go until the end of this term, or are we going to adapt the situation to both the Rules of Procedure and the state of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly? I think it is more correct that the Rules of Procedure must be respected and that MPs who are members of the congregation's working bodies must reflect the number of Members of Parliament as many MPs as there are in which assembly group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57361	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Since we no longer have registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, colleagues Risticevic, you will be able, of course, to exercise your right when we are done with the list of MPs, not now, we have a list of MPs, we are moving to the order of the peoples to apply for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, colleague Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57362	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have talked here many times about the judiciary and the prosecution, given that today we have several points on the agenda concerning the election of public prosecutors and judges who choose for the first time on this post.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57363	Comrade Fehratovich, one moment, please. I'll give you your time back, but we haven't moved on to another united debate. This is the first united debate. You probably signed up for a second joint hearing. Do you want to talk about the first united debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57364	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57365	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57366	Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, I followed very closely when you spoke, like all previous speakers, and I must admit that you are partly right, but that speech of yours sounded more and looked like you were in our benches as representatives of the opposition, but legally, in the right way, you made a full point, so the question is why did you and your MP group all these years back when the problem was identified in the right way you didn't react? I was surprised, indeed, when I saw that some Party of Modern Serbia, I didn't even know that it existed in our parliament, I really must speak for the citizens of Serbia, to realize that this meeting had no legitimacy then. Why? Four MPs' lists have not crossed the censor's threshold. You yourself realized that there was pressure on that election night, which we were talking about. As possible, whose strength it is in this country to allow anyone to break the laws consciously and to let the parliamentary groups that have not crossed the censorship. You know, the SRS didn't cross the censorship in the local elections because of one and a half votes, and we accepted those results. We didn't beat up women, nor did we invite ambassadors to ask them to repeat our election to some polling stations. So what's the result of your defeat in front of the people the American ambassador introduced? You mentioned several MPs. Unfortunately, the Bosnian pot is much deeper in this congregation. Let us take an example of Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic. It was elected MP on the Alliance for Better Serbia list, made up of LDP, SDS and LSV, a coalition that has not crossed the censorship and is the first defeat of the ruling majority. In late January 2017, she left the league and joined the new party. She was a member of the party's presidency. Since the end of May 2018, he has been a member of the Independent MPs' Club in the Serbian Parliament. In March 2019, he became head of the Parliament Club of Independent Members after the club's composition was changed. At the Parliament club, the Independent MPs were no longer members of the New Party, Zoran Zivkovic and Aleksandra Cabraj, who, according to Tepic at the time, decided not to stay in it. Zivkovic, however, said it was a lie that he decided not to be a member of the club anymore, citing that a statement that he did not sign had to be signed for leaving the club. It is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the media attack each other and you verify here, because such a law has been passed and the law passed by the Democratic Party at the time was headed by the Democratic Party, and you are implementing it today. In the media, Tepic rejected allegations that the Club of Independent MPs will be the club of one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, and then in April 2019 he becomes vice-president of the newly formed Freedom and Justice Party, headed by Dragan Djilas and we today in this parliament, which we send to Serbian citizens because the SNS had no strength, no desire, no desire to make laws, no changes to the laws, or to return the provisions of the Law on the selection of MPs. We have a situation where those who have money can buy and do whatever they want, buy MPs, MPs' groups, propose amendments, and then question the purpose of the election. Why do we who respect the Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have to speak this way? To introduce legitimacy into this parliament. How, unfortunately, and now it sounds ugly to people lately, and we have to say, political prostitution, for me, are moral freaks in the Spruce Parliament? Not long ago, the ruling coalition, otherwise led by those who are not here today, the Democratic Party, was heard by the MPs of the Verica Radeta, was the goal of destroying the SRS and was and I will now quote one part after stealing the blank resignation, and then stealing the mandate of the SRS from Tomislav Nikolic and his followers, was then hosted by the Serbian Radical and the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic and really hit the right thing when he spoke there and said the key thing. I will only quote part of it: "Since September 2008 something happened in the Spanish parliament that has not been seen in any democratic and civilized parliament, which is to educate some parliamentary group of some political party that has not participated in the parliamentary elections at all. If crime is legalised in the National Assembly, then how can you expect crime to be eradicated in ministries, public enterprises and units of local self-government?" I absolutely agree with the said one, but there is one small problem, Alexander Martinovic was then an MP for the opposition, the SRS, and now head of the ruling SNS parliamentary group. The question is why and seven years after everything that's happened, because you are these amendments to the law, if I am not mistaken, the application started in 2011, why haven't you changed and returned to parliament as it should be? The second thing after that, shortly thereafter, you claimed in the media, representatives of your coalitions, I speak DS, SPS and G17, says – under the pressure of the EU, we had to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and unfortunately, parliamentaryism was destroyed. When it comes to the role of the Assembly on meeting the conditions necessary to obtain EU candidate status, meeting the government's 96-point action plan, then Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, said it is not only laws and their adoption but that it is very important on the way that citizens play a greater role in the application of the law. Djukic Dejanovic, as an example, cited the Law on Electoral MPs where citizens will decide with votes that what political offer will pass in the elections and then continue to support and encourage all those MPs who stole the mandates, saying, "The president of parliament has added that in the past it has become a practice of signing the blank resignations, but that it has only been formally there for a long time, which confirms the fact that in this meeting several MPs have left their clubs without having suffered any sanctions." When the President of Parliament comes out in public to future MEPs of information that he will not suffer any sanctions, then why are we surprised that what is happening today is happening and will happen in the future? You'll be worse than Gordana Komic if you vote like that today. You'll be worse, because you got the votes of the Serbian citizens, because then you promised to change everything wrong with the DS. On the contrary, you continued to enforce both the Rules of Procedure and the laws adopted by the DS and forgot how Gordana Comic then punished the MPs of the SRS and kicked out of parliament. Is that your policy now? Will you continue to act that way? Why was this statement important, the President of Parliament, then? Because she said openly under EU pressure. That's why I'm saying that you're the same as DS, because you're still passing laws, every law that's reached the tide is written because it requires the EU to do this, to comply with EU rules, 90% of the law. So, the EU says - make moral freaks, political prostitution from parliament; no problem, buy MPs. Why are we going to the election? How much does that MP cost? How much does a parliamentary group cost? Is that what we're fighting for? In view of all these claims, one politician said: "I am not ashamed to say that I have changed, only donkeys do not change." Now, you see, I say this - I am not ashamed that I did not leave the SRS and 2008 and 2012, when no censorship passed and in 2014 when Vojislav Seselj was not a prisoner in The Hague tribunal, the anti-Serbian tribunal and I am not ashamed not to change my mind, because my opinion is that I am in a party that has ideology and only those who are given strong ideology do not change their minds, because ideology is not an opinion, ideology is the way, ideology is the goal. Until we have in Parliament to discuss ideologically and seriously access every law, we will have the situation we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57367	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Unfortunately, I cannot answer you from the chair's seat to this political part, given that you referred to what I was saying during the debate, but I want to tell you that we as a Parliament club have always had a principled and clear attitude. I agree with you completely. The Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure must be respected, and as far as expelled MPs are concerned, I can tell you that. As chairman, you know this very well, and I think the other chairman, i.e. I am convinced and convinced that the other presidents have the same attitude, we do not cast out the MPs as it seemed and how he did the chairman whom you specifically mentioned, and I think you are witnesses of all of this. Mr. Martinovic, do you want a replica? (Alexander Martinovic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic we've opened is very serious. I agree, Mr. Damjanovic, with what you said. So that's really my word. What happened in the meantime was next. The Law on the National Assembly was passed which simply dropped a provision of the Constitution, which says the MP is free to make his mandate available to the party who has run for office under the conditions prescribed by the law. The ruling majority then, led by the DS, felt that the provision in the law should not be found. I agree with you on one more thing, the Democratic Party then the Unique Democratic Party, otherwise all of this, that we are not much of a liar and that we do not, as the young would say, fake, all of this Đilas, Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Borko, all of it is DS, only fragmented into the smallest possible parts. That DS thought, now I'm going to be a little rough in terms, she thought what some people who have, or who are potentially infected with HIV, think that HIV is happening to someone else. That's how they felt the transition from one MP to another group only happens to someone else. When they experienced this happening to them in 2012, then they began to cry out loud and it happens to them day and day. And today they are abandoned by certain province MPs, and that is their political destiny, and we agree on that. What's the problem here now? I'm saying the National Assembly Act was passed. In the meantime, one of the standards that we had to adopt on our path to the EU, is the standard which otherwise applies in the European state that the MP is, on condition, the owner of his mandate. Our problem is, not that it's standard, but that one part of our political public obviously didn't mature enough to accept that political standard, and then that political standard with us was driven into one total extreme and all of what you said, I agree, I don't think there is a single democratic parliament in Europe that is possible for you to change two, three or four parliamentary clubs in one term. We need to work on a slightly different political culture. It is important to take care of whom people, or whom parties run for elections and what is evident, are written by many theorists, about the diabolical power of money in politics. So don't think that Marinika Tepic went from one to the other to the third and fourth parliamentary groups because she had some ideology. It was a matter of interest. It was money. Who is the richest in this Alliance for Serbia? Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57369	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Comrade Damjanovic, you will be entitled to a replica, but before you, Neđo Jovanovic. Excuse me. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57370	I thank the chairman. Given the mention of the SPS, I considered it appropriate to comment on something that was highlighted by counterpart Damjanovic, not to oppose him because he presented facts that could not be doubted and anything that would otherwise be extremely pointless. What does that mean? This means that everything that is pointed out, as the distinguished colleague Martinovic said, stands and unfortunately we suffer it. We are witnesses of a process that involves a radical approach, but indeed a radical approach. What's the problem? The problem is that what we're talking about today can only be systemically solved, and systematic resolution involves passing a new law or amending an existing law. So what needs to be brought into line with the Constitution, and in order to be in line with the Constitution, that means changing certain parts of the Constitution. Therefore, the problem is not very simple, the problem is delicate. It is, on the one hand, a purely legal-formal observation that no one will question and cannot lead to doubt, and on the other hand, we have a problem that implies these, so-called international standards, which mean again standards that we must comply with from the point of view of democracy, but democracies that are viewed through the prism of Europe, through the prism of the European community, the EU, all those who, in some way, will be rude, as has just tried to avoid a respected colleague Martinovic, as we are forced, whether we want or not, we accept some standards whether we agree with them or not. In particular, dear fellow Damjanovic, we do not need to lead the controversy over something that is perfectly clear and why you are standing at the position that we accept as correct, but we must accept the fact until it changes the regulation, which means one side of the change of the constitution, the change of the law, which must certainly be in line with the Constitution, and that is what my distinguished colleague and boss, the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group pointed out, think about changing the electoral system, then we will come to this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57371	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miljan Damjanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57372	Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Martinovic, whether or not we agree, we cannot disagree on something that makes sense. Where do we disagree? We disagree, and you, too, Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Jovanovic, are graduated lawyers, you say -- those were EU standards. The EU standard, the EU's recommendation, EU paper, the EU's ultimatum, the EU's application, cannot be above the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution itself does not know the definition that the MP, city councilman, municipal councilman, member of the local community, owns anything. Did they do any damage? The only good thing she did to this right hand side, the DS and the factions of theirs, and those Jeremics, Gilasi, Obradovici, I don't know what they're called anymore, is the only good thing they don't come here because they didn't deserve to be here. They've been destroying Serbia for so many years. But you can't get rid of the fact that this law came into effect at the end of 2011, that several election cycles have passed and that you knew that this problem was going to happen and that you had a period from 2012 to 2014 to change it, return it, comply with the Constitution, from 2014 to 2016 and now from 2016 to 2020. Well, we cannot accept it, we are aware that what the EU has given us, that proposal is not right for us to accept it, because it is said by the EU. I don't have a problem with accepting something that's good, but the problem is when we accept this right here. Why isn't that on the agenda? That's what we need to talk about. And the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57373	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57374	This formulation from the Constitution, Mr Damjanovic, reads about this: the MP is free to place his mandate on the political side, but now be careful, you have the word "your own", a little formula that points to an property-legal relationship, that we are not now entering these constitutional-legal finesse, but definitely that the provision is a bit of property-right character, is not, of course, but is drawing on it. So, the MP, what does that mean, someone should be elected a MP, to verify his mandate, and only then is he free to, under the conditions of a certain law, his own, it is said, mandated to make available to the political party, whose electoral lists he has been elected from. When the Law on the National Assembly was passed in the National Assembly, the majority then dropped to determine the conditions under which the MP can make his mandate available to the political party whose election lists he was elected and we then criticised it. Meanwhile, we have faced the fact that it is indeed the standard in EU countries that the mandate belongs to the MP. We can think about this and that, but the fact is that it is. If you have a firm intention to belong to one community of states, then you are obliged to accept those standards that you like, some of us like. In this situation that we're talking about right now, I don't mean your position personally, but your MP groups are a little more comfortable and comfortable than ours. You say you're against the EU and okay, that's a legitimate position. (President: Bringing the end. ) Be a little flexible, Mr. Arsic, we're talking about a serious topic. Give your colleagues a little more time. I can't say everything in two minutes, it's a serious matter. So when you have this attitude that you do not want to be an EU member, then it is a position that is more or less comfortable, but it is not an easy position when you have the view that Serbia should one day join the EU, then you are obliged to apply the standards that apply in that EU. In this EU, standards that we like a little more and some standards that we like a little less. Just to remind you, and the SNS parliamentary group in that term, if I am not mistaken, in 2012-2014, had a situation that some MPs were abandoning it. In particular, Mr. Borislav Pelevic left the SNS parliamentary group because, specifically, he was against me becoming a member of the SNS, and then he took it as an argument to leave the parliamentary group. So, if someone leaves the MP's group, let me say, can happen to every MP's group, but what happened to the DJB group, we need to put a little time back. How has this parliamentary group been formed, that is, how has their electoral list been formed? Over Facebook and Twitter. Neither your party nor my party has thus formed an election list. That's why our parliamentary groups are more or less compact. But they, I think, made Sasa Radulovic and his associates an election list so that they collected the candidates via Facebook and Twitter. There's one MP, he's a living witness, he said – we first met, we first sat down together to drink coffee on June 3, 2016, the day the mandates were to be verified. By then, these people didn't know each other at all. As a result, the parliamentary group experienced the debacle it had experienced. I doubt it can happen to anyone in this House, to this extent, because no one made the electoral list the way Sasa Radulovic made it. So, the roots of this problem are a little deeper than the mere application of the Law on the National Assembly. So, even when you're making an election list, you have to keep an eye on who you put on that election list. One of the colleagues noted well, DJB in 2016 was not a political party, but was a group of citizens and they performed as a group of citizens, and now time has shown, as a group of completely incompatible, unrelated people who obviously did not have much political experience and who are now going on what is happening to them, which is that their parliamentary groups have fallen apart to practically components.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57375	Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57376	Mr. Martinovic, I guess the main goal of democracy in our society is to have citizens decide who they want to see in parliament and when they want him to represent him in the vote. What's rounding up? He's rounding up the list. When we talk about EU standards, we cannot agree in one way, and it is not the EU standard for citizens to be deceived. When I say double-crossed, that's exactly what I mean by the example you gave, and there are more examples on this right-hand side. List, name of party or coalition and leader or representative who is headed. The campaign includes the party's policy and coalitions. In order, depending on the percentages they received, they are represented by the MPs. What's going on now? We're blind and pretend to be blind. The fact that we are being denied here every day in this House, that we must not be blind. From Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who took the DSS mandate, then kidnapped the SPS mandate by Dijana Vukomanovic, then set out to form one parliamentary group, the second, the third, the fourth. It's not a question. It's proof of their morals and education. I don't have a problem with what they are, we have to say in Serbian, thieves. When you steal something, the mandate when you steal it, you're a thief. The problem is, there's no sanction for that. That's the problem. Another problem, I absolutely believe that at least, who are here now, everyone in this room will agree... Our main goal from the election cycle to the election cycle is to convince as many citizens as possible to go to the polls. If the turnout wasn't 45, 50, 55%, we'd probably be satisfied that the turnout is 70, 80%. How can we convince, after this call, Serbian citizens to back up? Now I'm not talking about yours and our MP group, I absolutely think they're compact. I'm talking at all. What about tomorrow when some more fragile people come, less moral? What did he vote for? What's gonna happen? Will the election will change the will of the citizens? You know that's the most examples we have in the municipalities. Here are the most impressive examples. In certain municipalities, one political party wins 40% and does not form power because everyone else joins or makes a coalition, but some come, call it a tycoon, a man with certain interests, a local bastard, and even a Western bastard, buys MPs from another political party and they make the other majority that the citizens did not vote for. They didn't support it. We have many such examples, especially in the previous period. Let me remind you, for example, here's the freshest example, of a local parliament. It's the Starship Community. There is an opposition to the SRS, a constructive opposition, and there are SNS, SPS and some group of citizens. Seven months before the election, of course, someone came in, gave the money and decided to buy a councilman or change his mind or whatever, whatever you want to call it. Now, that's when you make a coalition with those, when it happens or those who don't have any politics, or ideologies, who have entered in a suspicious way, and I can prove that they entered in a suspicious way. I spoke before and after the elections, because it was once DS projects, as well as various groups of citizens at the Savawedding, the Old Town and other municipalities that applied as minorities. Imagine, a Jewish minority or a Greek minority at the Sava Wreath. There comes a councilman, a road map, and he decides what happens. And, of course, depending on who gives him more, because he doesn't have a program, no ideology, that's what happens to us. When parliament has been formed since then, the flea market has been moving, from that moment on. The same situation that is in the Republic Parliament today is in most local parliaments in Serbia, in municipalities, which is that the committees that entered with some lists no longer belong to those lists. That is why there is no EU standard to define democracy and parliamentaryism in Serbia. We tried, we saw it wasn't successful. We tried, it doesn't work. Let's get back what's working.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57377	The word has the People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57378	Thank you, Chairman. Neither are we the political option, as Mr. Martinovic said, which was collected through social networks, via Twitter and Facebook. The Socialist Party of Serbia lasts 28, here is 29 years of existence and political action. And for all 29 years of existence and political action, a relevant political factor in Serbia's political scene. It is true what Mr Damjanovic said and I fully agree. People always decide. It is the most credible and most measured court and we the court of the people always respect. Of course, our goal is not to depolitize citizens, when we speak in the perspective of the next elections. We need greater participation from citizens and do not honor us to work on the depolitisation of citizens, but we should focus on those who advocate some alleged boycott. They advocate a boycott because they know that some next election cycle would not survive politically, not because it is not fair and not democratic elections. As my colleague Jovanovic said, today we are talking about one look, this is, as I said, a technical question, but a delicate problem and we need to systematically solve it with one systemic approach. Until then, we must respect both the Constitution and the law and the existing Rules of Procedure. When you say we are doing something and we are doing something for the EU, we are not, we are not doing it for the EU, we are doing everything we do and we are doing it for the citizens of Serbia, and our key foreign policy goals are full membership in the EU, as is the traditional strengthening of friendly relations with both Russia and China, and with many other countries. We did not, of course, speak as representatives of the opposition, we expressed the views of the SPS parliamentary group. As for our within the coalition relationship with the SNS, it is long-term and strategic and brings results that are recognizable. It is true that the law that we are talking about today, amending and supplementing the law, was passed in 2011, but it is also true that in the post-2012 period, correct me if I am wrong, started with consultations and talks within parliamentary groups in order to bring about reform of electoral legislation and the creation of a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I think that group was led by a colleague then, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Why do you care? Just because one part of the opposition didn't find it appropriate to continue those consultations and to participate in the work, that's what I just said. So, we are ready to talk, but we must achieve the broad consensus of all relevant political factors, because we cannot work ad hoc, not every ruling coalition can, it is not good for Serbia that each ruling coalition changes electoral legislation and that it brings new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We've never advocated sanctioning MPs. I think you're all witnessing it. We always thought that we could always talk about anything, between us, who are in the O.R. today, find some common denominator. I guess this common denominator is Serbia's prosperity and that, looking at this common denominator, we move the topic from the field of politics to the field of reasoned and democratic debates. Not as it seemed of those who are not present, not the power of power, but the power of argument. Thank you, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57379	The word is Alexander Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57380	Officially-legal these MPs who pass from one to the next, the third or fourth parliamentary group cannot be called thieves because it is their right to give them the law, but there is something else. A colleague, Damjanovic, spoke about sanctions. There's something called political sanctions. I think that Serbian citizens see and understand well what is happening in parliament and that in the next elections they will not support those who were protagonists of this practice to change several parliamentary groups during one term. There's one more thing I'd like to say a few sentences about. In addition to this latest affair by Vuk Jeremic and this then Montenegrin foreign minister, Nikola Rocen, according to how "j" are Serbia-Montenegro's mother, even though we knew it without this conversation, here is Mr Damjanovic, who says one, I think is the vice president of this party Vuk Jeremic, Vladimir Gajic. It places the position of the People's Party naked, and that is probably the attitude of Dragan Gilas. "I don't think the parties in Serbia have any ideology at all, that's a delusion. We have neither left nor right nor center in terms of political theory. They're fake divisions. What's the difference between me and Gilas, Gilas and Obradovic, maybe we're not from the same place, maybe we grew up in different circumstances, we have different family opportunities. In order for ideologically defined parties to exist, it is necessary to have organised society, institutions. I can tell myself I believe in democratic ideas. Bosko Obradovic and the People's Party," says Vladimir Gajic, who is the vice president of the People's Party. He doesn't even know which party he belongs to. He says "Bosko Obradovic and the People's Party are more insistent on national issues." As they insist on national issues, we saw in this conversation between Vuk Jeremic and Rocen: "They are more insistent on national issues, which is at all a place in every country in Europe, Makron is a patriot, an English prime minister, a queen, a German prime minister, etc., they are all nationalists in a positive sense of the word. It is a false dilemma that we are ideologically different." And then the final sentence of Vladimir Gajic, Vice-President of the Vuk Jeremic party, follows: "I am ideologically different from Vojislav Seselj or Vukic. They are the most common gangsters and thieves, and I promise, when the People's Party comes to power, we will initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court to ban SNS, SRS and SPS." That is how Vuk Jeremic imagines democracy, just as the Serbian national issue, specifically the Union of Serbia-Montenegro, imagined, meant that "j" mother to Serbia-Montenegro. He would do the same to the Serbian people in Serbia today, only to be given the opportunity, but Serbian citizens will not allow it anymore. And there's one more thing I have to say. He, who is his timely "j" mother and Serbia-Montenegro, and now would like to "j" mother to the citizens of Serbia, he says - needs to change electoral legislation. The one who is a "j" mother in Serbia-Montenegro, who served as an adviser to Boris Tadic's cabinet, forgets that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, as well as Dragan Djilas, forgets that Bosko Obradovic, too, forgets that Boris Tadic, that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs by whom, in Serbia, there is a proportional electoral system with Serbia, as one electoral unit, was passed in 2000. Under the law elections were held in the Republic in December 2000, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016. When they succeeded after those elections by 2012, I won't say that they won, they didn't win those elections, they just managed to form governments after those elections. How, you know that yourself. So when they succeeded after these elections until 2012 to form governments, nothing bothered them, I was a great law on selecting MPs. Nothing, absolutely shouldn't have changed. They remembered that the electoral law was not right in 2018 and 2019, when they realized that the people would not. You have one paradoxical situation, remember in 2012, when Boris Tadic lost the presidential election, he was convinced that DS would make a coalition with the SNS and that he would be the Prime Minister. When it broke down and there was nothing of it, then he said less than a year ago – the 2012 elections were stolen, all the SNS stole, and in 2012, he said they were the cleanest choices we had. There, that's the kind of people it is. About people like Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas, Boris Tadic, etc. What is the task, I mean every decent politician in Serbia, is to expose to the citizens of Serbia the people of the former regime, to see what kind of people have decided on our fates. I would just like to hear, if this is how the 29 rooms in St. Stefan's were held, I can imagine how the phone talks on privatisation looked, what phone conversations about the destruction of Serbia-Montenegro's army looked like. What did the phone conversations about KIM look like, etc. That's terrible. It's terrible how this set of people ruined their own country and would have done the same with Serbia if they had managed to form a government in 2012. As for us, and I will no longer report to Mr Arsic for the word, as regards the SNS, we will continue to explain to the citizens of Serbia that those who have ruined Serbia, who are "j" mother of Serbia-Montenegro, and today accuse Vukic of not doing enough for the Serbian people in Montenegro to never come to power again. Maybe one day the SNS won't be in power. It's the immeasurable fate of every political party. No one has been in power forever in democratic states. Probably not any SNS, but I guarantee you, and I'm sure the SNS can only win a third. These, like Boris Tadic, like Dragan Djilas, like Vuk Jeremic, like Bosko Obradovic, cannot beat us. Because it is clear to the citizens of Serbia what kind of people it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57381	Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57382	Mr. Martinovic, I must admit that even too much of your time in the discussion has been set aside for people who, as you said, call themselves along with Bosca Obradovic some nationalists, patriots and have nationalist ideas. You mentioned that vice-president of the People's Party, Vladimir Gajic, and what is very important for the citizens to hear, in addition to banning political parties, political parties that when we look at this hall, affect four-fifths of the total number of places, this Mr. Gajic has expensively charged his nationalism. I will remind you in my own time, defend Nehat Thaci, the regional director of the Kosovo police in front of the High Court in Belgrade, and there is not much to be spent on them properly, not a word, not a sentence. They are nationalists when and in this famous, none of them are represented in opposition, and what they were doing and what the phone conversations were, you remember well that the SRS published the book "Vikilis tells me" where in US officials' dispatches they described in detail that Vuk Jeremic is speaking on television what the people want to hear, which is that KIM is an integral part of Serbia. Then the next morning, run to the embassy and promise and do everything that makes us have a problem with the same part of our territory. Everything no one could ever sign. But there's very little in public, too, because you know very well that on televisions with national frequencies there are no more than once round tables where they would come out to us on a political megdan and, of course, they would be defeated. But when you say, at one point -- don't worry, citizens and citizens won't vote. The citizens of us politicians, who represent them here, expect loyalty to the idea and the program that we have represented and that we must represent. That's what Serbian citizens expect from us. There's a doll everywhere and there's a being, and there's no legal provision, there's never gonna be, which will maximumly define that everything is in the best order even if we stay to change them the next day, that they're in our political option, so let's change the other MP. The question is, how is it possible that he was in our political option for a year, two, three, five, and he actually stood up and proved that he didn't believe in the idea he had followed for years, months, etc. We are obliged to speak openly to the citizens of Serbia and remind ourselves daily what it is that we promised in the pre-election campaign and what it is that we did until the moment we came to this plenary hall. Why am I saying this? If I had just said constructive opposition, what do I think I'm saying by that? Well, we're also in this room a constructive opposition. We promised Serbian citizens that we would fight to keep KIM an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. They promised and asked for their trust to integrate with the Russian Federation. The agreements you've signed, proposed by the government, whose head you're in, and the agreements that we think and according to the program, that part of the agreement that speaks of the approximation of the Russian Federation, Belarus, China, you know very well that we're here to support and we will continue to support it. It is that responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. In order for that responsibility to be complete, I think we'll agree on one more thing, and that, you've now quoted a part of the Constitution as saying that the problem is the part, because that MP can put his mandate to a political party, right, in one part of it, you said it was the kind of property-legal business. No, it's a kind of property-legal business, and as funny as it sounds, there were and very successful, blanco resignations. Here, are you Miljana Damjanovica for the idea of a great Serbia? I am, yes, I am, for the borders of Karlobag-Ogulin-Virovitica. Are you up for integration with the Russian Federation? I did. Would you like to work with Kino? I did. Will you never give up Kosovo and Metohija? I won't. Are we going to try every way, in ten, fifty, two hundred years to recover the occupied countries? Yeah, that's our policy. Will we help Serbs who violently assimilate for tens of years in Albania? We will. Are we gonna do everything we can to get Montenegro back to its queen? Yes, we will. At that moment, if we step down about one thing, mandate, I have signed a blank resignation and the head of the parliamentary group absolutely has the right to replace if I start talking overnight that we need some kind of policy, which isn't our own, our demarcation, that we don't pursue the issue of the Republika Srpska Krajina, that we allow criminal Milo Djukanovic to arrest Serbs, condemns some kind of dragonish prison, that we don't react to anything that is my political option, because I was on that list that propagates such a policy. Now, not with the situation of whether we are more comfortable or less comfortable to you, because you have taken a simple path that is normally less comfortable to you, because it is not only a problem of this law, you know that there have been many uncomfortable situations waiting for you than the arbitration that Croatia is seeking for 10,000 hectares in Vojvodina, through Kosovo and Metohija, across the Raška area, through the fact that you also know that Alexander Vukic was the first to leave when the EU introduced the Russian Federation and said that this is good, we will now take advantage of the full capacity of our exports. Then the German Chancellor came running and said – no, your percentage in exports to the Russian Federation is 2% and can't even pedal anymore. Why? That's what the EU says. But, never mind, you're in that position, that policy, we're on this second one, and only if we protect the people's rights to decide with our vote who's going to sit here, he's going to follow Parliament's work, and that way, in any subsequent election, we're going to motivate him to come out and go out in as large as possible, and then we can say that there is democracy in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57383	Right on line, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57384	I thank the chairman. I don't think it's a questionable loyalty to the idea, as it is said, when it comes to us today having a debate. It is absolutely not controversial and no matter how different in certain political views, but it is good to have a constructive debate. There is only a few mentions of one finding – political sanctions. True, political sanctions exist and there is a court of citizens, as I said, the most measured. The court of citizens who will be held in the elections, and the political sanctions for this so-called, to express myself by that vocabulary, flying from one parliamentary group to another, but also a political sanction for not participating in parliament's work when we talk about life issues, when we talk about issues of national and state interest. It is not the word that only one-point or two-point session was missed, it seems to me that part of the opposition that did not participate was deleted from Serbia's political agenda. Mr. Martinovic mentioned only one example, that someone had requested the SPS shut down. He's not the only one, we've heard a lot of it in the last 29 years. But they forget one thing, what is democracy? Democracy doesn't come true on the street, democracy only comes true in the elections. Only the elections determine Serbia's political course. When we talk about elections and when we talk about that part of the opposition that announces the alleged boycott of the election, if that is, if we speak, and call these political protests, if that is the citizens' response, with all due respect, but if that is the response of citizens who want to change this power and this ruling coalition, then this ruling coalition absolutely does not have any problem in this context and should continue the work for which it has taken responsibility. It is true, Mr Martinovic said – they remembered the change of electoral legislation in 2018, they joined together to represent some new DOS. Unfortunately, they are, that is, fortunately for us, and unfortunately for them, only a pale copy of DOS. They joined together to represent an alternative to the ruling coalition when they realized that this was not possible and that this group would not politically survive some next election cycle, they are now, of course, in favour of a new political flossula and they are pushing for the alleged boycott of the election for the reasons I was already talking about. A few mentions one year, 2012. It wasn't just pressure on the SNS, pressure was made on the SPS. I don't know what it's called, an alliance of someone, it doesn't matter, they talked and mentioned some alleged affairs, mentioned something, some things that the trial got its final epilogue for, mentioned some footage in which nothing was secret. These meetings were public, it was only secret that they filmed to try to use it to put some pressure on the SPS in 2012 to make a different political decision after the parliamentary elections. How scared we were, you saw them in 2012, and imagine how scared we are now in 2019. A little while ago, the Wolf of Jeremic was mentioned. He's not a representative of the citizens, he has no legitimacy and trust, and even when he did, very rarely we've seen him here in congregation halls. Given that a few days ago they criticised the economic and financial policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, only one crackdown, correct me if I am wrong, did Mr. Vuk Jeremic vote in general for the budget we adopted in December 2013? Did we then lay the foundations of the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia? In 2014, did we achieve the goals that we set back then, did we achieve the results that are above the objectives that we set? Now where'd you get that ex-sense? So it all comes down to criticism for criticism, no ideas, no concrete programme, no support from people and citizens, as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57385	The People's MP, Miljan Damjanovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57386	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Mr. Milicevic, indeed, as with previous speakers, we can agree on more things, but there is only one thing I want to remind you of, because you are the vice president of the National Assembly. Since the first day of this call, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has just asked for a change in such a bad Rules of Procedure, that, if the law is bad, partly bad, there are shortcomings, that we simply cover these shortcomings with the Rules of Procedure. It's the only way to go, then. From the first day we say that you inherited a Rules of Procedure which we know is not good, that this call is going, that we need a new Rules of Procedure and, of course, not to bring it, as someone was just saying, from calling to calling, or individuals, or only the ruling majority, is probably an interest, if we are all Members here to respect this Rules of Procedure, to sit together, because this is an indication that when there is a will, it doesn't matter who will speak, it's important to discuss and debate that has some purpose, point and message, and that's what Serbian citizens want to hear from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57387	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57388	Thank you. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly, although the debate has been very inspiring and inspired so far. I would hate for this debate to turn into a sort of lamentation over Sasha Radulovic's political fate and that movement. You know, Sasa Radulovic succeeded in something that was impossible at the border, which is that with the 16 MPs he had in his parliamentary group, it leads him to be an independent MP at the moment. So all he has left is this Branka Stamenkovic from the MPs. I understand the particular need of Branka Stamenkovic, you know, she would like to remain at any cost a member of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so to stay on board, to stay in delegations, you know, she likes to travel. He prefers to travel to Strasbourg. She just loves to travel to Strasbourg and I think that's the basic motive of that whole bitch she had at the press conference. He likes to travel to Strasbourg, and there's all kinds of bullshit in the sessions, and he's embarrassing our country, but what he cares about is he doesn't feel any responsibility in that sense. But there's one problem, and what we're discussing is not a fountain wish. Therefore, membership in a committee, in a delegation, in a working body of the National Assembly, cannot be brought down solely on the desire that an MP be a member of a committee or a delegation. So, simply, there are procedures, there are rules. There is also a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, whatever I think of this Rules of Procedure, whatever he is. So this isn't a fountain wish. Another problem is that Sasa Radulovic and Branka Stamenkovic do not have a parliamentary group, they simply do not have a parliamentary group and none of us are to blame for it. The Serbian Progressive Party is in no way guilty of people not believing Sasa Radulovic and for bringing himself into a situation to lose the parliamentary club, to be an independent MP. It's their own fault. Of course, I also condemn when Sanda Raskovic Ivić moves from one of the MPs' clubs to another, when Dijana Vukomanovic leaves the SPS on whose list she is elected and moves to the party of that Vuk Jeremic, who bought, again, from MP Mike Aleksic's existing party, and of course I condemn when Marinika Tepic changes probably she herself doesn't know how many parties and how many MP clubs. It was mentioned in the past debate by Sasa Radulovic in the context of how he served as minister in Vucic's government at the time. I want, for the sake of the citizens, to say that Sasa Radulovic has never been a minister in any of Vucic's governments. So he was a minister, but in that government, the Prime Minister was someone else. At the time, Vukic was Deputy Prime Minister, not Prime Minister. The Prime Minister was Ivica Dacic, it was the Government from 2012 to 2014, and he was faster and better shot from that and that government. They figured out the people they were dealing with quickly, kicked him out of the government, as one logical solution. I don't want to talk about Sasha Radulovic anymore, he was told what they think in the held Belgrade elections in 2018, when he failed to cross the censorship, and all in the coalition with Bosko Obradovic, they were together in the coalition he and Bosko Obradovic, who was given the latest nickname – Yankees, Bosko Yankees, probably because he didn't break out of the US Embassy, probably because he's in the seventh sky since he got the VIP invitation to the US Embassy and that's probably why the citizens nicknamed him Yankee. For all these reasons, I'd like to say that we're going to vote on these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57389	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that this debate is attended by representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary. You might be wondering why. Well, here, out of the arguments put forward by the MPs, you'll be able to see, because there are some acts that might be called a crime. Stealing an election will is something other than a felony. It's interesting that these changes in the membership of members of the Assembly committees are 19 plus 20. The Committee on the Rights of the Child, he is special, the fact that his chairman is the Committee and the President of the Assembly, and it is mostly true who are members of that Committee, so 20 committees per two members – 40 members have these committees. This parliamentary group that proposes to amend the composition of these committees has a total of, if I am not mistaken, six, then one member of the parliamentary group will not be a member of eight committees, but seven,80. Isn't that right, Mr. Ristichevich? Is that possible? But it doesn't matter how many boards someone's gonna be, but we want to point out something else to you. And you know by now that this has been some established good practice when members of the assembly committees are elected, there has been mostly no debate because good practice has been established, but after this we have to discuss, after this we have to stress some things even more significantly. We persistently, not counting from 2012 to 2016, are constantly talking about changing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not only the Rules of Procedure, if the Law on the Selection of People's MPs should also be amended and harmonised. People's MPs do not have to be the most professional people, but it is very important and important that they are moral people, that is something that Serbian citizens value. They don't have to be the most professional because of three ways of democracy, so it's a direct one that isn't maybe anything special or impossible anymore, given this modern technology, and based on these modern technologies, it's been created by a political party that has just led us to consider now the choice of members of these Assembly committees. Our democracy is a parliamentary democracy, elections are direct and citizens express their will in such a way that certain political lists, sometimes with very well-known individuals, know who will represent them and thus express their will. It is important, and we insist on it, of course, that the citizens, our voters, too, want what was said in the election cycle to be represented, while a certain assembly assembly is going on. It wasn't that long ago, we didn't forget it when there were 306 MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. You know how these cards were attached by some MPs, returning the chairman at the time, but we want it to never happen again. Life is based on natural and social laws. We cannot, as individuals or even as an organized society, change natural laws so quickly, but socially, they are susceptible. Should it, or still, be 10, 15 years, as long as it takes you gentlemen, to change this Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly, so that some things remain entirely behind us? Is everything okay now? You can no longer call on the rules of procedure of some other congregation majority, some Democratic Party. She did bring such a Rules of Procedure for every normal man, and also a moral, of course, must be an unsustainable condition. They introduced, a colleague named Djordje Milicevic told us that sometimes we see these assembly benches, but very often, if it wasn't for a bell located near the chairman, would you, dear colleagues, know what proposal, without saying the amendment, to vote? It is the creation of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The citizens have said what they think of such politics. It's been enough time to run one analysis without us constantly pointing to all the executions of this Rules of Procedure. You should do it without it. Let me remind you, many local self-governments, after the establishment of local self-government, or the assembly in local self-government units, bring the Rules of Procedure on their work. If local self-government does so, then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would have to do so without any suggestion and deal with the issue. The vote on the bell, the vote on the budget, specifically for 2019, to whom should you throw problems, or to whom should you resent what the 2019 budget was adopted in the way it was adopted? Yes, most of the time, it wasn't a problem, but what kind of debate was conducted on this budget? They are no longer the problems of the Democratic Party. That's your problem. Someone else reminded you that Nikola Pasic said - when you are in position, you should pass laws that will suit you when you are in opposition. It's perfectly normal. That's how it's supposed to be done and removed from all doubts and dilemmas. Because Serbian citizens no longer have the trust needed in politicians or political parties. A politician is an abstract concept, except when it is known specifically which person is thought of, but political parties are a constitutional category and they are already mentioned somewhere in the basic principles of the Constitution as parties that need to articulate a certain way and lead politics and precisely prescribed in which cases can be banned by one political party. I hope honestly, I don't know if this will be the case, that this proposal to amend members of the Assembly's committee will pass as a proposal from the Nenada Chanka party regarding the adoption of the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. If you decide to make that decision, it's the right thing to do. Any other decision would be devastating, not only for the citizens of Serbia, but for democracy, for parliamentary democracy, and certainly for the citizens of Serbia, because they lose confidence. We must work our way in this Parliament, by our efforts on the ground, to show how and how we should work in the interests of citizens. Someone said well that the Democratic Party did not win the moment it succeeded in building the congregation's majority and power. From 2003 until 2012, the only winner in all elections was the Serbian Radical Party. Afterwards, Serbian citizens said they wanted something different and different, said they trusted the Serbian Progressive Party, which was created primarily in the theft of the Serbian Radical Party's mandate. It has gained a large media space and the possibility of some of its interests representing Serbian citizens. Later, in a successful, more or less way, they received more trust. But it is our obligation, as people who have been given the right of Serbian citizens to represent their interests here, to work in their interest. Do we work if we do not change the Rules of Procedure for more than 10 years, if we have not changed the laws relating to both the Rules of Procedure and the work of this Parliament for 10 years? That should be approached as soon as possible. Then there'd be a lot less problems of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57391	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57392	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, shall be elected into the Assembly's working bodies and assembly committees by the best MPs of the parliamentary groups, taking care of the expertise, interest and morality of the MPs, as many other professions should be. For example, university professors, and often not, such as these triggers of the "105 out of 5 million" initiative from the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, who sent an open letter to the public, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, about my speech at the Serbian Parliament, 3. Seventy-seven. In 2019, in which lies, half-truths and plantings were presented, claiming that at the session then I told Professor Dubravka Stojanovic that he was the biggest forger and that I threatened her with death, and Jovi Bakic that I said that he was the most common asshole, Bill Clinton, and I needed to be arrested urgently. Dear Vice President, since this is about the sensitivity of the topic and the open letter is addressed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let me read what I said from the stenogram. I quote from the stenogram: "It is not Mr. Martinovic who called the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but individual professors, and I often make arguments. I ask Professor Ševarlic if he supports this stance by Professor Dubravka Stojanovic, who said on February 17th 2014, I quote, "Serbia lost 700,000 people in World War I, thereby reducing the number of Serb victims by 400,000". This, Mr. Ševarlic, ranks the largest forgers of the number of Serbian victims in the First and Second World War, with historians and scientists, academics Stjepan Razlo, Dr. Franjo Tudjman and the former chairman of the SFRY presidency, Stjepan Mesic and others. That's not all, does Mr. Chevarlich support the distinguished professor when he says, quote, "Gavrilo Principe is a terrorist, not an assassin," finished quote. That's what Mr. Chevarlich writes only in Austrian and German textbooks. Professor Stojanovic, quoted me as saying, "Serbia gives up Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska", finished the quote. You know, Mr. Chevarlich, according to the Constitution and the Criminal Code, where the teacher mentioned should be staying today? In the boulevard. You know what a flea is, in prison, not to say by the Penal Code of the Book of Milos to finish. Furthermore, if you defend those professors, she also said this, quote, "The biggest problem of the Republic of Serbia is that it won the wars", finished the quote. You know what that means, that it was supposed to be a fascist loser Serbia. The distinguished professor, probably you, when you defend her and not only her, does not know that the victorious and liberating, free spirit of the Serbian people is an integral element of Serbian national identity and that is what has kept us alive for centuries. "Do you, Mr. Chevarlich, defend Professor Stojanovic, who said on 19 July 2018, that today in Serbia the elites that made war are in their interest to forget responsibility? It's a finished quote. She doesn't know, and I believe you know that the war was caused by the United States, the EU, the Vatican, and Germany in the first place. There's not a single historian in the West who doesn't say what I say today. Not just that. Do you defend Mr. Jovo Bakic, who gave master's work to a student, quote – the role of "Pink" and "Hepi" in the creation and reproduction of the cult of the leader and analysis of the content of the hosting of Alexander Vukic in the shows "Tough Word" and "Cirilica"? It's a finished quote. You're a professor of the university, is this a political mix-up, this subject in the classroom? What did the professor of sociological sources mention, and what literature? It is as if I have given my student such a theme – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual proscration and diletarianism and analysis of elections for the third time by Professor Dr Jova Bakic. Dear Dr. Bakic told President Vukic for the third time, and I quote on 17 January 2014 – Vukic is an exterminator of Angela Merkel. It's a finished quote. Do you support that? It's like I'm saying right now – docent Dr. Bakic Jovo is the simplest piece of shit Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. What if I said it and I didn't say it? Imagine Jovo Bakić when he says, on January 15, 2015, I quote – Vukić can lead on TV duel and Mali and snotty. It's a finished quote. Now, I recommend that all these quotes that I'm saying tonight, and those that I don't have time to say, frame into one folder, and that every day be reminded to list in the study of my scientific achievement – democratic and civilization culture. Once again, it's an honor to the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but some professors have strayed. It's a finished quote. Respected citizens of Serbia, that's what I said. I didn't threaten anyone with death. I am sorry that the "100 out of 5 million" initiative's drivers support such professors in their ranks and that they have settled into such professors. Dear citizens, judge who was telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57393	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57394	Thank you. This proposal that we have today from the newly-formed "Modern Serbia" party and the authorised representative of Tatjana Macura to give MPs who were on the "Enough" movement, and from that electoral list elected, discharge of the duties of members and deputies of the Committee is the legalization of corruption and the most brutal theft of the mandate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I was a member of the verification committee on June 3, 2016, when this meeting was established. Based on the RIK report, we have verified the 250 parliamentary mandates of those political parties, coalitions, electoral lists that won the mandates. Of course, we then reacted and told you that you would be hit by the head of Boška Obradovića, Sanda Raskovica and the whole click through Scott, that is to say, to his insistence, into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, here, three years and a few days later, we have a situation that over 30 MPs have defected, so they stole, kidnapped the mandates of the lists from which they were elected and ended up by some other parliamentary groups. So today is this proposal by Mrs. Macura, who represents this so-called. The party must never accept something that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot. First, since you're signing them like that and you've accepted this act by that newly formed party that didn't participate in the election, let me put out a few words and what kind of party it is. They were formed at the end of December last year by unifying a movement called the Centre and the Social Democratic Union. Interestingly, who is in the presidency, or vice president of the newly formed party who has not won a single vote in the elections – Nebojsa Leković, is well known as Dusan Mihajlovic's right hand, and the New Democracy Vice President – a movement for his pocket, you know that, Mr Arsic, and a small party that has always blackmailed both the SPS and the Yugoslav Left, for a time, stole and kidnapped on all sides. Lekovic, one of the richest people from that time on the basis of his actions. Now, you see. Now, you want one of these newly formed parties, the only thing they have in their program, is that, as Macura said, they're looking for some kind of enterprise, they take the mandates of a member of parliament, and you give them the opportunity to... You know, we have a situation like 2001. In 2002, when Natasa Micic was, because this is where it comes from, that the DJB parliamentary group, or that electoral list, has no one left, and there's no way to get someone on their list to be elected, because these are the ones who took those mandates when we had a similar situation and when she said, "Here, from now on, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has 243, or 248 as she said, MPs. After that, the National Assembly had 308 MPs because they had left the sessions, or returned their mandates to the DSS, and they had introduced others without having verified their resignations. If you had listened to us, Serbian Radicals, in October of last year, and we insisted from the beginning that a new Rules of Procedure be adopted and that you had accepted the proposal from your colleague Radeta on the amendment of the Law on the selection of MPs, which should be a guide for the next elections, we would not have come to these situations, even alone, Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic said in October last year: "Here, in a few days we will approach the Amending Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it will no longer be possible for these various flyers to go from one to another parliamentary club." I suppose you should have listened to those of us who told you that the MPs were elected according to the proportional electoral system, as a key segment of the political system in Serbia where the parties are who determine, because they are selected on their lists. And the Constitution of Article 102, paragraph 2, gives you the right to imitate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Such parties are the ones who determine who their national representatives are, because we have a purely proportional system, and we don't have some kind of majority system, so that they act that way. You didn't listen to it, and that's why today you want to legalize another theft of office. We speak in principle, but when you introduced Boško Obradovic to the pressure of Scott in the Assembly that it was another latent problem for you and you showed that you didn't have the courage to react in accordance with the Constitution and the Law when that one MP was so inserted into the Assembly, without having enough votes to try a coup in Serbia. This is where it has been settled since this morning on how it has been resolved in some other parliaments, so here it is - I do not give us the EU, and we have to listen to it. You were returning to abolishing the blanco resignation in 2011, and that famous interpretation of the Constitutional Court which showed that under political pressure he brought his own interpretation, which is in direct contrast to what it says in Article 102, then it has been raised since this morning – We can't. There, you Serbian radicals against joining the EU. It is easy for you to say now that these MPs should stay in that parliamentary group or their mandates should be taken away. That is not true at all, you know, because in all other countries that are even EU members, these pressures, blackmails, apply only to Serbia, as they blackmail you on KIM, and everything else, that is how they blackmail you on this issue. The solutions are, in fact, different. In the press, the parties agreed not to receive flyers at all, and that's rare to happen there. So, no political party there will accept the ranks of someone who changed their political uniform and came from another party. In Portugal, under the Constitution of Portugal, if an MP leaves the party and joins another, he remains, which is normal, without a parliamentary mandate. How can he take the party's mandate on whose list he was elected, and whatever it is, a combined electoral system, if it came out under the name of the political party. In Bulgaria, Sweden, an MP who leaves one parliamentary club cannot enter another, and you have received, just you, and such MPs, as others have done. And, now it's amazing, if we come up with such an electoral system and we have such a Rules of Procedure, from where Tatjani Macuri's right comes from, you don't have a full day's answer, then Radeta's colleague started with this debate of the Assembly, where she's entitled to the Rules of Procedure, any right, that she is now proposing such an amendment. Let's just say, if it weren't for this troubled group that fell apart from the Radulovic movement, let's start from that he did, which sometimes comes to the meetings of the Assembly, Veroljub Stevanovic, he has his own party which is registered and whose headquarters is in Kragujevac. Imagine now that he has come up and come up and said, "Here, now I have five of them, me and four of them, let me switch boards." What a hypocrisis in Serbia's political system is now, if the elections are the central issue. This is nothing daily-political now, whether or not Bosko said that, what Gilas is doing and his clicks, the machinations and the robberies of Vuk Jeremic. Come on, seriously approach this issue. You're not too late now either. Here, we will now have until the end of this extraordinary session of October 1st a regular session, please accept the only way to get Serbia out of this situation, these are amendments to the Law, or the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, proposed by the SRS. Here, there's plenty of time, we work all July, it doesn't matter, why, we will respond and we will give our representative a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So these are all questions that you skipped just like that, and now you need to have this party so-called. modern Serbia, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't do yourself a bear service, because they're coming now and it's normal for all MPs here to look for a place for dialogue, and we like it best, to face here, to express our opinions, our arguments and to cut down every political opponent in front of these arguments. But that's good for you right now, so all of a sudden, come on, one such suggestion that no one in a normal situation could ever think of. You've been trying to explain it all day with those excuses that these guys are gone, that they've formed, and, well, they want it now. That's impossible. You are violating the election will of voters, in any working body, in the Assembly Committee, in an international delegation, each who has been proposed this way in the way Tatjan Macura has done, is an illegal representative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we call on you to withdraw this proposal from the procedure, i.e. it is no longer possible, we are discussing it, but that in the day of the vote, you should vote on it. You know that it is a normal democratic procedure that, in accordance with the winning mandates, it has always been and respected, every political party has the right through its parliamentary club, not the imaginary parliamentary club, to propose a proportional number of votes to its representatives. You even went so boldly as to form this assembly, that you ignored the fact that the SRS is the largest opposition party, so you wouldn't let us have any presidential, alternate place. The problems were when these international bodies were formed. But by the time all this is over, do it to at least save how much, so much the cheeks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and don't let such a proposal be voted upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57395	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57396	Thank you, Chairman. In the root, i.e. At the beginning of this proposal, political events are from something, to say closer to the past, and related to that famous DJB political option and the parliamentary group in this distinguished home. With their unfortunate leader, I must say, Sasa Radulovic, whom Serbia has forgotten for a while, and with the whole parliamentary group who simply disappeared from a political scene in Serbia. Why is that? A lot of reasons have been said. My colleague Aleksandar Martinovic said that, he reminded me of that "what the coat of arms is born and the time does not correct" and that is one of the reasons, but I thought of the words of the famous Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, who spent a good part of his life in these benches here, it seems to me that it would be a little embarrassing to see who is sitting in his bench today. He also said that the infectious and destructive power of lies is a lie. In this case, it was contagious and destructive for those who, whose function rested on lies, destroyed the one who lied and spoke to the president of the state of Alexander Vukic and his family, and to his work, and to the work of the SNS. It's just a reminder and a sign that the truth is always reaching and that the one whose function rests on lies usually ends that way, i.e. the way that famous parliamentary group and its leader ended. The best keeper of truth in the Republic of Serbia is the people and he knows best and appreciates it. If we are already talking about RIK, about elections, the people best assess the truth in the elections. It is not different in any part of Serbia, so the people in Subotica could appreciate, regardless of the lies that today and in some past period the opposition today depicted in some new group headed by Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas and their semitrons at local levels, regardless of the lies they bring out, the people value truth in the right way. Regardless of the amount of lies they give to the mayor of Subotica, Mr Laban and the president of the state and the SNS and all that we do, yesterday the people gave one assessment in the local community elections where they couldn't hide, first of all, the results of all the work so far listed. Here, reviews, please look at the victory of the SNS in 35 of the 37 local communities in Subotica won 442 mandates in the councils of the local communities, out of 501 mandates, 88% of the total number of mandates in the councils of the local communities. Our people say: The sun cannot shut its palms. No one can hide the work of both the president of the state and the government and the local authorities in Subotica, and I will take the opportunity to congratulate when we talk about RIK, to congratulate the citizens of Subotica on the election, and for us from SNS and our partners this will certainly be an incentive and obligation, to continue to work in the interest of both Saturdays and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57397	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate on the regulation of the personal composition of the various Assembly committees and the Republic Election Commission has opened a little broader discussion on the topic of relations in the National Assembly, relations between political parties, different parliamentary groups, relations with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to election laws, etc. All that we have heard during today's debate is an important topic and it is important for the citizens of Serbia to understand and because of how they are experiencing our National Assembly, to understand well under what conditions the National Assembly is doing, with which all the dilemmas must be fought and in what ways we observe possible correct answers, i.e. the right solutions. What is directly related to today's debate, which was directed towards the SNS parliamentary group, which is the most numerous in the parliamentary majority, and also to other members of the parliamentary majority, are the following objections. The question has been asked how we treat other parliamentary groups, whether there is a desire for this relationship to be correct, whether this relationship is based on the law, on the Rules of Procedure or on some other kind of interest. Finally, whether it concerns respecting the electoral will of citizens or whether it is a violation of the will of citizens, whether the completion of these committees, the working bodies of the National Assembly are already properly organised, how we treated this issue as a parliamentary group and what relationship will be shown when we declare the various proposals we have on the agenda. Some of these proposals come from parliamentary groups that, even people, who have brought this kind of criticism to our account and consider it indisputable. However, there are proposals from those parliamentary groups that have been discussed today, which, at the moment we are discussing, have been established by different names compared to those of the first days after the constitution of this assembly and the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, that is, since June 2016. We all know how many big, drastic changes there have been, when it comes to, first of all, those lines made up by the MPs of the former regime. It's really hard today, right, for us who are in the National Assembly, who are here every single day from morning till night, to say that we remember exactly everything and how it went, who the MP groups were all experiencing metamorphosis, who changed everyone's names, composition, who was wandering where he was wandering, who he was politically belonging to, and then gave up, then talked about all the worst and scariest people he shared the bench with until a day or so ago, found new friends, partners, sponsors, if you want, and patrons, and then changed his mind after seven or 15 days. Many have moved so many times that today it's really hard to tell exactly where they are, who they're even representing, and what this has to do with these difficulties that we're talking about at this session. Of course, our wish, our goal since the beginning of this call, I say, us from the SNS, that relations in the National Assembly are well arranged, that we, first of all, have that level of correctness in the mutual treatment that is necessary for a good Parliament and one for all understandable and acceptable democracy. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, that kind of relationship has, I mean, been shown very clearly, literally since the first day of our joint work in this session. When we established these committees for the first time, and not just those committees, when we were working on the organization of the National Assembly in this meeting, I believe that we as a parliamentary group have shown an absolutely correct relationship. I must remind myself, since this is often one of the topics, that we are, as a parliamentary majority, the bearers of the individual majority and within each of the assembly committees. So, when the committee's leadership is elected somewhere, either the president, or the vice president, it is always done by us participating in that decision, we from the SNS, our parliamentary group or we from the parliamentary majority, and from the very beginning, we have taken a position -- let's agree, correctly, to agree at the level of what is a good parliamentary dialogue, to find common solutions, so that the broadest possible number of parliamentary groups are satisfied and as a result of this type of approach and that parliamentary dialogue the National Assembly is at the beginning of this call is elected, it seems to me, in total, that the president from those parliamentary groups who are not members of the parliamentary majority in any way, more than ten. I think eleven such persons were at the very beginning of the summons, which the president of the various committees, which replaced the chairman of the board. Once again, in this vote we from the parliamentary majority participated. If we hadn't shown that kind of hearing, it wouldn't have been possible to choose any of these people. I guess that's pretty clear. It should be borne in mind that there is no procedural obligation, that the Rules of Procedure do not define any obligation that anyone belonging to any opposition group, regardless of its size, the importance it has realistically, which is measured through an election result or which it attaches to itself, does not matter at all, whatever it is called, whatever gender in the political spectrum it belongs to, there is no procedural obligation to belong to someone the deputy, president or chairman of the board of directors. It has always been and will always be a matter of parliamentary dialogue and so it is in this assembly. So that's the kind of width we have shown. Information that isn't secret, we talked about it more publicly, among other things, and when we discussed this matter earlier, it was that those places for representatives of different opposition parliamentary groups could have been more. It could have been more and more on our proposal, and it wasn't just because it didn't exist on the other side of the will to agree on those proposals. In particular, today's protest has been expressed that the SRS has not been given the opportunity to chair any assembly committee and should know the public that it is not because we have decided that we can't, and we said that we can't. On the contrary, there was a proposal sent by us to lead a Assembly committee by a representative of the SRS. On the other hand, there was no agreement, they disagreed with the proposal, and that is why they did not manage one assembly committee important, I believe that each one is important from the very beginning. The same proposal existed for one international delegation and the same type of response on the other. So, we don't need to doubt our will. On the other hand, no one has ever set themselves up, as if it were the National Assembly, when it comes to this kind of personal solution, a super market, so that everyone is served according to how he loves it, but it's a matter of agreement or having it or not. If he's not here, no big deal, what's to say, life goes on, we work, the National Assembly works. If there's a deal, then there's a solution. Among those 11, I would say that the president, who is vice president of different committees of the National Assembly, were different solutions and are now. I don't need to, just in case someone thinks they're not important or important vice presidents of different committees. At one point, during this call, we even had the fact that the two vice presidents of different committees were practically managing the work of these committees, because at that point, it took a little longer somewhere, a little bit shorter, no board presidents, because the people who were in those places decided not to be MPs anymore, informed the National Assembly and went to deal with some other duties. Nothing controversial, but then the vice presidents, and that seems to me in one case in the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, it was the vice president of the DS, and in another case in the Committee on the Protection of Human and Minority Rights, it was also about the deputy president proposed by the DS, who managed the work of the Committee. That is, by the way, still the case, I don't think the new chairman of that assembly board has been elected yet. But, therefore, there's absolutely enough space for these people to make their proposals, when there's some consensus about it, and we've never had a problem with any proposal that we agree on and support. It is an indicator of how well it is founded or not founded to resent us, but you know what they say, every day, the parrots repeat, what these representatives of Gilas, which these Jeremics, of course no longer can determine, where they are, what they belong to, and they were not representatives of these people in the elections, because in the elections they did not participate in under those hats, but they say that we are terrible dictators, that we are always persecuting someone, that Alexander Vukic is the greatest autocrat in the world, that, you know what he is compared to, Hitler, Mussolini, Pinoc. We're all fascists, and we can't agree whether we're bigger fascists or Nazis, whether we're an SS squad or who we're the devil. But as you can see, and these are facts, so everyone who followed these things knows and wants to make sure that the data checks you out. We always wanted to have a proper relationship with everyone. The more they pay us back, the more they say about them. However, it is an actual condition. Among others, for the chairman of the committee, in this meeting and the Committee on European Integration, Marinika Tepic was elected, at that time on the proposal of the LSV parliamentary group, which she belonged to, with which she went to the elections, and thus became a national MP in general. Where is she now, to whom she belongs, I'm not sure that lady knows at all, but it doesn't matter. We never interfered with personal suggestions. Whoever wanted to propose someone on behalf of his MP group, of us had no comment, no objection, no objection, never occurred to us to do this, it was sovereignly the right of every parliamentary group to make a proposal on its own behalf. And there was no problem, therefore, that Marinika Tepic, in that sense, co-operated with the parliamentary majority, is probably forgotten by many, it was about two years ago, compared to today, although it was difficult to forget some of the details of that presidency, among other things, Marinika Tepic showed how successfully the committee led and when she chaired that session, where Davenport was trying to present one of his reports. Then she showed how much she was able to handle it in any way. So, if we remember anything about that presidency that took a while, that's why I remember it from that detail, among other things. As far as we're concerned, anything that we agree on and implies a deal as the basis for any solution has always been absolutely respected on our part. The parliamentary group, which has been the subject of interest because of the proposal to regulate issues within these committees in a certain way now, is a parliamentary group or a parliamentary group or, in order to rightly name it, it is really difficult for a man to express himself with all these changes, Sasa Radulovic. These are those from the "movement" as they call themselves, "Enough has been", who have indeed participated in the election as a group of citizens, and are registered as an association of citizens. Then they signed some co-operation agreements with themselves to transfer money. You remember all those stories. A group of citizens, with the association of citizens and no one knows in the end where the money they received was, among other things, the fact that they had some of their representatives in the National Assembly, and as it was moving with campaign money, it's just stories and various lectures that are hard to rewind today, nor should we do it at all. As far as they're concerned, it's a very eloquent example of how we returned to, on our part, a correct relationship. You all remember the very beginning of this call. So, in order to meet different representatives of the opposition, and in fact in the order of all the former regimes in this particular case, but, well, to call them what they like to call themselves, we then, at the level of the widest possible agreement, at the level of agreement of all parliamentary groups, have agreed to define the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly differently in this assembly. The same percentage of the elections were held by these Radulovics, who seem to be gone or are in different forms, so we are now discussing which is both the right DS and for each other to be satisfied, all parliamentary groups agree to be seven vice-presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly and to reach an agreement at the level of the president of the parliamentary groups. We come to this hall, put this proposal to a vote, and everybody votes for that proposal, so once again, the proposal that is so defined that it would come out to meet different representatives of the former regime, people who don't think well of us, and everybody knows it, but, well, we show how terrible we are by letting them have each and every one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly, when they already have the same percentage. And Radulovic violated the agreement, at the first vote, which concerned their interests and the wishes of all other parliamentary groups to meet their interest because we show some parliamentaryism, he voted against. He's trying to take on the goodwill of everyone else, then, on the first day, make it brutal, I'd say mean, political propaganda, to launch a campaign on the subject -- we're all evil partocrats, and we all want to increase the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly, we don't know why, and he's the only one who's fair on the side of the force of good, and he's the only one who's gonna be against it, against what he's asked and against what everyone has agreed that it's okay with relations between MPs, that it's not controversial and that we want to accept. From that day on, it was clear what kind of relationship we could expect from that side, therefore by the representatives of the former regime. That was unfair all the time, unfair, it was pretty dirty. It was so dirty that I was sure that the things that Sasa Radulović and all who entered the House of People's Assembly at the very beginning, but also representatives of the DS and those who today are Djilas, today the Jeremics, who are today Dver or not Dvori, did not know what these people are, but it does not matter, so everything that they did, as they were saying, were written, statements of the rules and of Mrs Maja Gojkovic, the presidents of the National Assembly and Aleksandr Martinovic, our chairman of the parliamentary group and the deputy president of the Socialist Group "The Movement of Socialists - The People's Peasant Party - United Peasant Party" Mr. Ristic, and how they treated Mark Atlagic. All that and day-to-day, all of them together, which in the National Assembly, at press conferences, through their media, television, newspapers, daily, weekly, whatever you want, it will certainly enter the anals. So that kind of relationship, I can't remember when we had in Serbia, and that's their answer to our desire to be correct, where, once again, it doesn't matter to us absolutely what they're called, we don't care what they have to do with each other, we don't care whether they argued with each other or not. We just want to respect some of the things that concern us, and that's what we're discussing today, on the one hand, the formal rules. So what defines the law and what defines the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, some, let's say, moral ethical issues, so for those questions that are not defined by strict rules, what we think would be right, on that ethical side. On the third hand, what makes any sense and any logic. We come to the questions that were addressed to us today. Does the parliamentary group, now called the Modern Serbian Party, have the right to make any proposal, since they have not entered the National Assembly under that name and do we, because we put it on the agenda at all, need to have them in the Assembly? Another question that we are told - are we in violation of the will of the citizens? The third would probably be - is that a proper relationship to mandates? As far as the mandates are concerned, it's actually the clearest thing in the whole story. So that's what we've never done. In the way that it's regulated by people's election lists, that's how it's realized, so to speak, throughout this whole thing. When someone for any reason ceases to be a MP, he is replaced by the first one on his election list. Yes, it is true that MPs' groups make proposals according to our Rules of Procedure and that based on the composition of these parliamentary groups and their number of members, the Rules of Procedure say we need to fill in the working bodies of the Assembly. So that's the question of composition. The President's question, Deputy President, is another matter. Today would be really hard to say - and what it would look like if we were running some simple proportions all the time without wanting to even think about whether someone really represented someone or not. Well, every time the former regime argues with each other and builds a parliamentary group, so they better make a request to make changes to the composition of different committees, we accepted and voted for it, all parliamentary groups, as has been said today, without any debate on all proposals. Then we would probably be at every session, but literally every session, we would have some change and because they argue with each other and because they can no longer decide who they belong to, whether today DS, and tomorrow they're a little independent, so they've joined together and made a group, and then the day after tomorrow they come to Gilas, then a day later they go to Jeremic, and then they come back to Sasa Radulovic and so on into a circle, we would have to adopt some of their proposals and no one would ever know what kind of composition is, for example, which Assembly committee. What makes sense is that in this respect, I agree with everything that is said today, it is important to take care of who is the real representative of those people who came forward in the spring of 2016 and voted, so who got those votes and that support. And I think we've been right about that, too. With the list, we respected all the proposals that came from the parliamentary groups that were based on the results of these elections, right after the end of these elections, that is to say, the beginning of this call. We didn't get into what their relationship was like at all. Any proposal made by the parliamentary groups created in this way, I think all other parliamentary groups have accepted without any involvement in the content of the proposal. Today when we talk about these things called SMS and Saša Radulovic, we have this interesting situation that this original parliamentary group under that name under which it is formed no longer exists. And you must have seen what the explanation of this message group looks like, why they're suggesting that in any way change the composition of these committees. They claim they have continuity with their first joint parliamentary group. That's what they say. Anyone who wants to accept it can, who won't, not necessarily. Once again, we have absolutely no emotional relationship. But indeed, there is no more parliamentary group called what everyone was called at the beginning – that's enough. Sasa Radulovic no longer has a parliamentary group of any kind. Whether he has the support of another letter or maybe there is someone third or not, I really don't know, but those who have signed that kind of request can no longer influence the Rules of Procedure, and we still have seats of MPs on different committees that are defined on the basis of some of their own, let me put it that way, original or initiatives proposals. Those who are called SMS today, whatever they are called, do not really mean anything to me either, nor do I make any difference in terms of relations with them and experiences as far as we are or are not political inexperiences, between them and others with whom Sasa Radulovic and those who have fled to Gilas's parliamentary group and the third. It's all the same to me. Therefore, they propose to implement in a different way the fullness of these committees. Whether it's going to be called text or, as they were called at one point, free MPs, on their own, it doesn't matter to me at all, it doesn't mean anything to me. At the moment they changed their name, they argued with each other who could bear the name enough is enough, anyone who couldn't. But since the question has been asked whether they answer politically to us in any way, once again a very clear, clear answer to hear from me, absolutely as much as it was at the beginning of this call when they were all together with Sasa Radulovic, nothing less, nothing more. Let's not see any difference here, so here's the clear proof of everything that could be heard in this room. Over the past few weeks, we've been discussing different laws, and they've been arguing with each other about who's to listen to Gilas' orders that he's not allowed into the O.R., who's for not listening anyway, who's scared of Gilas, who hasn't been scared. During one of the debates, significant and important, I would say, as regards the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, what is often referred to in public as Tijana's law, who, I think, was most clearly talking about exactly the terrible mistakes of that parliamentary group or that group in any sense? So the People's Messengers from the ranks of the SNS. We criticized them, if I have to do it myself. I reminded myself of their shameful behavior, only a few months ago, when here all the parliamentary groups, so all of which, to members of the parliamentary majority, which we literally clung to others, we literally clung to inhumane people, that we have no understanding because we are not at that moment, imagine, their proposal was not in line with good standards when it comes to regulating any legal matter, put to the vote, says – you are soulless people, like people, where you are, show yourself, why you do not respect the Juric Foundation proposal. When the proposal was properly prepared and put on the agenda, only because we stood behind the proposal and said that we would, of course, vote for it, completely forget about their words and those high moral standards that were once guided. We reminded them of it and said: Your conduct is shameless; your conduct is for every judgment. About this group, specifically, about MPs Macura and the others, we talked about SNS, there's no one else. And that's an answer to what our relationship to their political views is, how much we have or don't need anyone. Has that changed because they are in the National Assembly these days? I think they went into the O.R. today. I didn't hear them say anything. It's, of course, just their thing. I think, if you want to ask me for a personal opinion, that they did it because they're a little smarter than those who decided to be the blind listeners of Dragan Gilas, a little smarter, because when you look at it realistically, they have just like everyone else here, quite wide space to say whatever they think they have to say, to criticize us in all the ways they can think of, that way they get to the ear of some voter, so maybe they get some voice, maybe someone can cheat, I don't know. But if they're not in this room, if they comply with the yellow tycoon, Gilas Dragan and his will, they won't have that space. It's the elemental logic of being transferred to a public service all day long and saying whatever you think you need or deny yourself that opportunity, elemental logic. If I were in the position of any opposition, of course I would use the opportunity to reach people and those who are the opposition and from the very beginning of this calls out the most numerous opposition, I think they understand this opportunity well, think well in that direction and use it in a good way. Among other things, I'm saying that because I've seen a little bit of these ratings published in the daily press. Those who have concluded that there is a need to speak in the National Assembly, thus coming to an understanding of voters, have in the meantime raised their own ratings. Those who decided not to be smart but to obey Gilasu, they were their ratings, I think, just executed drastically. What is this modern Serbia, as they are already called, concluded? I think she's figured out what I'm saying right now. What do the others think? It can be understood easily, and we hear it every day. I don't think there's a day that doesn't show up anywhere in a sentence by Zoran Zivkovic, which is also one of the fantastic examples of people who really don't have any votes behind them, who really don't have any voters who support them, and who becomes a member of parliament already, by being on the election list of the other party, specifically DS. This man simply longs to return to the home of the National Assembly. You see that from every statement he makes, every press release. He comes in here, say, in the lobby, today it seems to me he's done it again, and he's been talking about how terribly concerned he is about the investigation into Oliver Ivanovic's murder. Of course, he also took the opportunity to attack the most brutally again with lies, re-insults and propaganda by Alexander Vukic and other people, and he did not remember that it was true that, if someone showed support, he was supporting and providing assistance to Oliver Ivanovic while he was alive, it was Alexander Vukic who confirmed it was the people who were in the immediate environment of the late Ivanovic, who attended his meetings with Alexander Vukic. His widow spoke, let's say, of that, and those who were terribly concerned about the case, and they spoke all the worst about Oliver Jovanovic while he was alive, they don't remember that they didn't even know who he was, probably who he was, if we didn't count those like Rada Trajkovic who knew who he was and she talked about Ivanovic all the worst while he was alive, she said it was a criminal and a fraud. Now she's protecting his memory, now that she's at the lap of Dragan Gilas. These others today show this concern probably by saying the worst possible insults to his widow, and only because she will not accept their toxic narrative and that she attacks Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, because they have decided that she should, but rather the woman is telling the truth and she cares about Serbia hearing that truth, so that Gilasov Vesenovic, among other things, is insulting to his statements, is the worst thing about her. He also called her the devil, and it's probably an appropriate indicator of how Gilas himself treats the issue. The fact is that the other day, some of them signed the agreement, decided to put it on their list, that he could be a MP, if Gilasu succeeds in sucking up a voice, if the same concept as Zivkovic's MP calls out in several. This was an upheaval on what they do, and they always say that they are aware that not sitting in the National Assembly does not benefit at all. Who learned that lesson, who didn't, their thing, their problem. As far as we're concerned, we make sure that relations between different parliamentary groups are correct and, of course, we do not expect miracles. We are fully aware that the correct relationship will not be returned to us for good, but we will be the subject of the worst possible, most groundbreaking insults, misrepresentations, accusations of anything a man can and cannot come up with, but that's just the way it is. It is simply so, and it seems to be one of the fates of parliamentary life in Serbia. By the way, speaking of their relationship, it's probably the biggest sin they recognize among each other that they're a little less afraid of this Dragan Gilas today than he would like. I've looked a little bit at how the gene of these relationships flowed, and I see, since we're talking about it, this Tatjana Macura herself says that this boycott is one big scam, that they're in some kind of incomplete boycott, and that it's true that everyone gets paid all the time, even though they don't come to work, that it's true that they take travel expenses when they travel so much that they don't show up in the National Assembly at all, that it's true that they're members of parliamentary delegations, that it's true that when they travel with National Assembly delegations, they take diaries. That's all, in her words, absolutely true and she thinks it's pointless, so they sort of decided to be principled and not do it anymore. He believes that their greatest problem is that they allow them to be pressured by those who are not present at all in the National Assembly. So, in particular, Gilas and specifically Jeremic, those who did not even participate in the elections and cannot be said to have their own representatives in any legitimate way, but they have the other one. Exactly what is said today is that both Gilas and Jeremic literally bought parties in the meantime. Now, as many parties as there are, and that's hard to say and that's one of the difficulties we face when we need to look after the work of the National Assembly. Does Vuk Jeremic have one or two parliamentary groups? He currently has his party vice presidents in two parliamentary groups. Does that mean he has two parliamentary groups? I don't know, I'm not that smart to tell you. Yet they are at some higher level of politics than we are dealing with these in a slightly different way, actually very different way. Dragan Gilas also has his own parliamentary group. His vice presidents are sitting in the KSP today, which is probably a substitute for this party that Gilas bought for the SAA. Today they also went to a press conference to say they have the right to some representatives on the committees of the National Assembly. There's this Marina Tepic from the beginning of my story. So she's at Dragan Gilas' house right now, and where she's going to end up, don't ask me, she probably doesn't know that, and how am I supposed to know that? Also, Tatjana Macura said that they realized that the "wa Vukic" policy made no sense, so this is her parliamentary group, so they decided to try to animate voters in some other way, not to accept the obedience, the common sense that Gilas Dragan requires of them. So that's the story of their relationship. As far as we're concerned, once again, we have our own policies and we build and defend our policies. Do any of them want to change their methods or won't? It's always on them. What we're repeating on our part is dialogue, any kind of dialogue, if it needs to be run, should be run here. It is a feature of good parliamentaryism and respect for institutions. Not on the street, not under tents, not incursions to RTS, not by shooting at the police, shooting at knives or bottles, not by calling riots on the streets of our cities, literally calling for civil war, because when you call for various scenarios like Ukrainian or Romanian, and all these people said, that's the kind of evil they called. It's not good and it's not acceptable. How and how can he do that? He can go to the National Assembly. Say whatever is in your hearts, everyone has the right within that time which the people gave him in the elections, so as much as the political rewards, that is what the citizens themselves say, but in the words of the People's Assembly. These other ways aren't right. Some people seem to understand it, some people don't get it all the way. Vuk Jeremic, today we talked about it, probably understands that there is no more good way for him, because he who has been able to say such detestable things about Serbia, to curse Serbia so dirtyly and to cry hysterically, showing how much he enjoys that kind of insult both Serbia and its citizens and not to hide, not to hide, but even entertains him when he knows what he was doing with his Tadic, Gilas and others, our citizens. When it gets out, as learned from those talks between Jeremic and Rocen, you remember when they talked about what they did to Serbia-Montenegro's mother, whether or not there is no more real way. Now, whatever one of his vice presidents is saying in the National Assembly or in that room at the press conference, it makes no difference, and it's clear to them. Today, Gilas holds a press conference, and Jeremic must not appear. They ask him where you have Jeremic, he says he's not in Belgrade, we don't know where he is. He's hiding in some mouse hole, he can't look into anyone's eyes anymore. The others who think they have something to say, they seem to be trying to say. Now, someone can say something to him in the right way, someone better not try, because when he says only greater harm to himself. Dragan Gilas, of course, doesn't want us to talk about this kind of disrespect for the institutions they show, about the accident they call for our people, about the conflicts they're trying to generate, about the insults they're making to our account every day, so he's trying to change the subject. Here, let's not talk about how Jeremic treated himself and cursed Serbia, today Dragan Gilas is going to try to talk about the economy a little bit, so it's funny that it's really too much to explain. But he explained to him how much it seems to me, more than a month ago, Miladin Kovacevic, director of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, for example, what the ratio of growth and participation in the GDP of industry, and it showed him so beautifully that man can understand, that even someone who does not understand the state economy at that level, as Dragan Gilas does not understand, that he can nevertheless understand and explain to him that growth or the fall of industrial production affects, so he has so little participation in the overall GDP that he can't, on the basis of which he can't understand himself, that you can actually conclude one at a time, and that's how GDP will move, and Dragan Gilas doesn't understand it. To him is the fantastic success of his and their minus 3.1 so-called. growth, it's not growth, it's a decline in GDP and it's good for him, and it's not good for him when Serbia as last year ends up with a growth that's not negative, but is positive for plus 4.3%, and by that indicator among the most successful European countries, he says – this is the weakest result in Central Eastern Europe, I don't know what that man has said today. Well, that can be said by someone who doesn't know anything or someone who absolutely doesn't care what lies they'll say, and what's verifiable in a few seconds. A serious man can't burn it. There's no third man. Tom Dragan Gilas, in order to change the subject somehow, that we do not remember his and 500 million that ended up in the pockets and accounts of Gilas and Jeremic's swearing mothers and those snivelings. He's trying to talk about investment, so he says, "What kind of investments are these?" Well, these are great investments, so good that we have them more and more successful than any other country in the region. He mentions both Albania and Northern Macedonia and BiH, but, or he doesn't know, or he knows again, but he doesn't lie to me, that when Albania is gathered together with Northern Macedonia, with BiH, with everyone in the region, we have more investment than all of them, and yet he would like to talk about the economy again, but I don't know how to respond to more than half a million of the jobs that they've wasted, he and his associates at a time when they've been scratching skin from the back of the people and now explain to someone that it's better and more successful and valuable than hundreds of thousands of new, secure jobs we've done in this country in just a few years ago. How could he, if he would like to talk about the economy, explain that his 337 euros in average wages are better and more valuable than today's 463, with a clear tendency, a clear plan to reach 500 euros, and that will be very soon. There's no way he can explain it. Otherwise, it wouldn't be bad if the moment it happened, if everyone in common reminded him and this Zivkovic who was on the DS election list and all the others that came from that party, which is mostly the case with all the representatives of the former regime, their statements from, it seems to me in 2014. It seems to me that about that time on their side right here in that bench over there -- Alexander Vukic, when you achieve that average salary in Serbia is 500 euros, you know we're all going to have to vote for you. We are obliged to vote for you all. Well, it would be good to have those statements and their promises remembered within a month of today. I do not expect miracles, of course, but they will see that on this case how many hypocrisys there are, just as it is in the case of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure or the law that regulates the question of the election of MPs, because these are also their words in the paper. Their decisions are in that law and in that Rules of Procedure. And when the question is asked – why is it good or not good that neither that law nor that Rules of Procedure have been amended. And we know that one point changed anywhere, they would jump with a story – there, the law has changed, the Rules of Procedure has changed, and that is why nothing is wrong. This is what they seem to be forced to chew their own shoes every day explaining to someone in Serbia, and in fact to themselves, to criticise their own law and to criticise their Rules of Procedure. And according to their rules today, it is judged, if you will in the congregation debate, to them and to us and to any third. Under these rules, MPs are elected, as they were elected at the time when they organised the elections, so are they elected today. And then even today they have the right majority in RIK, if they want to change any decision, to make any remarks on the election procedure during the election day, sooner or later. However, the fact is that they really have nothing to essentially object to that process that regulates the elections themselves. If they did, I guess we'd see some kind of formalized grudge, some objection to some record, because they're never there, because they're clear the moment the elections are held, and they're left at a one-digit percentage, that there's no more talk. Has Vuk Jeremic tried to cause riots for the 2017 presidential elections? He called for public occupying the polls and taking the matter into his own hands, but what Vuk Jeremic could expect, it was clear to him himself, with 5%. With 5%, and on the other hand, the absolute majority of 56% in the first round for Alexander Vukic, and then what is there to take over and to what kind of violence does he call and who would follow him in it? He was no longer accompanied by those who were in his constituency that day. So the election is clear. Also in this National Assembly. As for the application of the rules, those rules have not been amended. We just respect them strictly. Now, as this assembly ends, I'm not sure I'm going to tell you honestly, since it's long since it doesn't look like what this conspiracy started with and how it started. I'm not sure it's going to look the same as it looks today, not the schedule of MPs, not their names, not their names, not my God or my composition. Here, there are obviously new changes already being made in the DS parliamentary group. They also publicly warned Gordana Komic and Natasa Vukkovic that they were participating in the work of the assembly committees. Milojic Kena is on the wallpaper a long time ago, and as things stand, it looks like she'll just be on the wallpaper. Because, according to Dragan Gilas, yellow people began to throw out their province officials, they kicked out of the party of a province MP. They also seemed to me to be one or two people who are members of local parliaments, or committees, and then Kena said, "These from the executive board who voted against those decisions are honorable and honest people." So, the ones who voted for the evictions, I read it from Ken's words, are dishonest and dishonest. Everything seems to me that Kena will be the first to feel the power of Gilas's power and his experience of justice, as well as the others who belong to their MP group. The other day that group of the Women's Parliamentary Network held a meeting, Aleksandra Jerkov and Sanda Raskovic Ivić were present and I can see by these famous social networks as they are called, they're going to investigate them, threaten them and point fingers at them. So, it's not amazing, it's to expect that very soon there may be new fractures, separations, formation of new groups, and that we will be getting some suggestions again to organise the working bodies of the National Assembly in a different way. What does it make sense to react to? Again, what is not ambiguous or to the greatest extent possible is the will behind parliamentary groups formed at the very beginning, that is, those lists that have been supported by citizens, some greater and some smaller. Somewhere it's possible to unambiguously determine, somewhere else it's not. On my part, I think it is most just to invite the MPs to deal with this kind of dilemma as they consider to be most correct. This isn't exactly regulated by any business regulations, but it's literally an interpretation of what we think we want to respect or we don't want to respect. The arguments they made in their application by some MPs, I have no doubt that they will be held justified at all, others will consider them unwarranted, Mr Risticic's remarks, not as they are called, and it does not matter whether they are present or not, but whether six or seven of them can have the mandates of those who were 14, that is a good question, that is the question they are in place. On the other hand, if we look at the matter completely logically and to the end, whether it makes more sense, whether you like it or not, or if it makes more sense for all of these places to have one Sasa Radulovic, who doesn't even have a parliamentary group, and now he's trying to represent himself as 16 MPs, I think it's a kind of dilemma that each of the MPs will be able to answer, to look for the answer for themselves. Well, whatever the People's Assembly says, once again, it's not out of our pockets, nor in our pockets, nor in our interests at all. We will continue to act seriously and responsibly, to respect everyone else and, of course, we will not expect a miracle in the future. Because we're used to that kind of toxic insults and toxic accusations coming from the ranks of the former regime, and we don't expect it to change. Time goes by and some people change, they mature, these, however, have shown that for that kind of qualitative change absolutely are not capable. So they haven't changed anything in their relationship with the people, in their relationship with the people, and neither have we as political insolents who continue to proclaim, project for enemies, enemies that need to be destroyed. It was about these insults today, and I don't want to remind myself of everything again from the beginning, but I want to remind you of one thing that may have missed the MPs, as well as the critical public, and it concerns the direct insult of the family of Alexander Vukic. In these famous Gilasov and Miskovic's weekly and newspaper, controversy recently led to the use of children, other people's children, children of political officials in political debates or accounts. There's a famous journalist who said one, for me, amazing thesis. She did it trying to protect, I guess, some of those political like-minded, Gilas, his surroundings, his hands, his left-handed, his right-handed. There she literally wrote the following – of course she is not allowed to deal with children politicians, family members, and children in particular. However, as she says there, it is, of course, justified to do so in the case, according to little Milice, not so little Daniel and children of ministers in the Serbian government. Because, as she says, it's the public's interest to deal with them. It's an interest to the public, imagine, that these children are being attacked in the most ground floor, the most disgusting ways possible. She says it doesn't apply to anyone else. It protects family members and all others who have anything to do with both Gilas and his surroundings, if you want these Obradovics and Jeremics, it's all perfectly fine, protected, but it says – there is, imagine, because it has concluded, the public's interest that this rule does not apply to Alexander Vukic, nor to his family. When you're dealing with it, and we've been facing it for years, then you don't expect any better. So anything better than that for us would be such a spectacular surprise, that it's absolutely amazing. That kind of relationship or behavioral change we absolutely do not expect, but it does not prevent us from acting seriously and responsibly. They can get as angry as they want, first of all on themselves, those who have suffered this kind of pathology in our society. Here, today, we also talked about the high-ranking official of Jeremic's party who does not hide that he has the worst possible opinion of both Gilas and Obradovic, his own party, to say that there is no policy, that it is only of pure interest. In front of him and the president of the political council of Jeremic's party, he also says that no one there is worth five pairs, their demands are stupid, all of them some cosmetics, the only real one, the only honest one there is Vuk Jeremic, and these others, as he said, are DS relics and they only bother. What does that tell you? Well, if he got angry, not enough of these other Gilas and the team were defending Vuk Jeremic when his conversation with Rocen was announced. Let them freely deal with themselves, just let Serbia be left alone, let the honest people, honest citizens leave alone, let them not try to call upon themselves any misfortune, let them not call on violence, let them be fundamentally honest to come to the elections tomorrow with their name and name, any, that they do not hide behind children, nor behind students, nor those who have abused the incursion of RTS and those who, as sales to some protest organisers, but the naka look the citizens of Serbia in the eyes, and let them say, we, who were ministers, who were mayors, who were at the highest possible functions in the country, who we had eaten you, who in our pockets, like 500 million, as little, but still many millions of euros,. We now want an opportunity to keep on burning and burning this land and see how it goes. Among other things, they saw in the local community council elections just these days, which in Subotica, which they saw in the vicinity of Novi Sad, a little earlier when all together, such as the Gilas movement "five million" performed on the same level of elections in the territory of the town of Šapca. Every time that list and those candidates who support Alexander Vukic's politics have won all possible places, and the Djilas, Jeremics, Obradovic's thugs, how many have they won? As much as they could when they know who they're talking about, one big zero. When they performed as Gilas's "five million" movement in the Major, they passed again with zero. So, the people that fraud can't, but at least let them be fundamentally honest, let them say -- here, look us in the face, we don't pretend to be someone new, we don't hide behind other people, we're looking for your trust. Every time they go, they'll go just like they did, but let them show that level of honesty. Among other things, let them show it in the National Assembly. If they want to have their representatives in our delegations, and they say they want to, if they want to have their presidents and vice presidents, and they say they want to, if they want to participate in a variety of women's parliamentary networks, etc., you are welcome, then don't lie that you are not the MPs. If you do not want to be MPs, it is known how it is regulated in the only right way, as you say – I will no longer sign up for travel expenses, I will no longer go down to the congregation restaurant, and I will not end up getting that salary, which I receive as a National MP. Be honest with yourself, say at least that much - we didn't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57400	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. There are no more logs on the lists. Do the representatives of the legislators or the president of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives who still have time want to turn around? The word is Mr. Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57401	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am certainly not the lawyer of the authorised representative of the Bensedin, Mr Radulovic. So my relationship with him and the parliamentary group "never had enough" is clear. From Enough to "enough" it has been two years. This Tatjana Macura, the only Marine, I think, has changed more games in the last two years. So, here she defended Radulovic so much that she spit me out defending him, then she pinched me once I got injuries at work. She was a DJ, so the center movement, so now she's texting, and it's almost going to be "vaber" as far as I can see. Marinika was an LSV, an PSG, a New Party, and now she's one of Gilas's parties. This is quite an epidemic. The law is for every law, even for us. The regulation is regulation, and the regulation says, by the number of MPs of the messenger groups, compared to the total number of messengers of the people in the National Assembly. That's how many members in the bodies and the Electoral Commission are entitled, don't forget it, don't forget it. Since the situation in our political market, and I have already shown, is constantly changing, I claim that these at Gilas will sooner or later. Member of the 45th to whom they are called - upon the proposal of the National Assembly parliamentary group, a decision may be taken on the termination of the duties of members or alternate members of the committee elected from the order of members of that parliamentary group. The ones we're solving aren't from Macura's group. Even she can't be the heir and legal follower of the DJ herself, even if we will. In the meantime, she had another parliamentary group called the Parliament Group of Free Members or something. What else is interesting? Here Mr Đurić has been telling us for days, and by committees, that the electoral laws passed by those with whom they will unite are nothing, they are unfair etc. And then he called on the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Official Messenger, 35/2000, 51/2003, etc. So he calls for the laws passed by the Democratic Party, which reportedly bother him, and we're to blame for being bothered by the electoral laws they've passed. Also, for days, they've listed how we're proposing some of the motions for an emergency procedure. Here, and they suggested an emergency procedure. It's hypocritical. If you wish there were no proposals for an emergency procedure, and you do it yourself, then you're hypocritical. If you do not agree with the electoral laws, and you are calling for a member of RIK and deputy members, remember, six MPs get a member of RIK and deputies, tomorrow if there is a stop-pani, and there has already been a proposal not to accept the regulatory results of the election, that RIK votes against the will of the citizens. This can be very dangerous in respect of citizens' will in some future elections. The SPS parliamentary group, which has two and perhaps three times as many MPs, has one member of the RIK. SNS MP group, I think, nine. So every 15 or 14 of them. Those on six MPs are getting a member of the RIK and one deputy member of the electoral commission. I can't vote for that proportion, team before they're gone today. So these are the ones who dispute that there are no dialogues in the Assembly. What's a dialogue for them? What about Mr. Djuric's dialogue? Should we keep our mouths shut and he'll talk? It was a person who spoke to European parliamentarians. She said the election laws weren't right, there was no media freedom. They don't get off that Luxembourg TV. N1 TV is television from Luxembourg, which, behold, together with the parliamentary group, says there is no media freedom in Serbia. Wait, how does N1 television write to the European Commission and complain about the media conditions in Serbia, when it is registered in Luxembourg, broadcasts the programme there, and from there only has to re-emitting it? I guess they should complain about media conditions in Luxembourg, where they're registered. Here they are neither registered nor paid to REM or RATEL, nor Sokoya, nor paid to anyone, and Serbia's subscriber's money through SBB, through Solak and Gilas, receive several euros per subscriber in Serbia, until our domestic media gets nothing. So it's those who falsely advocate freedom of the media, for free elections, which are still free elections, we haven't changed any of that, but when they need a piece of that electoral law, then they and how they put it into some kind of request to be rewarded. They're paralyzing the opposition's boycott. I don't mind you assigning them all these places, I just have to warn you that in some parts it can be dangerous. They see democracy as an imperial product, like -- we go to the US Embassy and order two buckets of democracy. Democracy is not a product that can be imposed on the outside. She must be growing inside. He wants a dialogue. What's a dialogue for them? There is no dialogue in the Assembly. He says, until, I think, July 9th or something -- the government said 551 hours and the opposition said 575 hours. The opposition has one-third of the parliament, the power of two-thirds. So, they have spoken in total in direct television broadcasts more than twice as much as MPs from the ruling parties. The ratio of Dvori and SNS: The Courts performed 10 hours per MP, SNS 3.4 per MP. So MPs of the Dvori group performed three times as much time as MPs of the most numerous SNS parliamentary group. This text or what's called the MP's group performed 31 hours or five hours per election MP, which is 50% more than the most numerous parliamentary group. If there was no dialogue, then I really don't know what dialogue is. Is that their desire to speak, to keep quiet, to be icaban, to give a quorum and to suffer criticism? In that we can't defend ourselves without them attacking, because in the name of democracy, you can attack as much as you want. Number of notifications: power 10,084 times or 60 calls per MP; opposition 8,570 reports or 102 communications per MP. Almost twice as much. These are arguments that support us so far and that their boycott is completely meaningless and that I am not in favour of giving them additional concessions to reason for them to come to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57402	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57403	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, at the end of this debate, I can conclude that it was truly constructive because it was won at the breadth and I think that today from Parliament we managed to send the right picture and show what a constructive discussion of the very important topics for our country between the ruling coalition and the part of the opposition that is really active, otherwise it is regularly present at meetings. As for these MPs who are supposed to sit here across from me, who are not here today, it's just their minus and for not participating in the discussion in parliament, but minus for their policy-making, after all, because how do people trust those who are not in parliament, which is why they voted for them, how do people trust those whose MP groups are being shut down, the man who led the parliamentary group that numbered 18 or 20 MPs, and now he has himself put himself in a position to be an independent MP. Then it is right to ask how many citizens will really trust politicians, and we as MPs are the ones who have to worry about it, because we are elected here to work in the interest of the citizens. I am therefore pleased that these proposals are not understood as mere fulfillment of the form, but that the discussion has spread to certain constitutional provisions and to any amendment of the Rules of Procedure, or to commenting on those provisions. The Rules of Procedure are that MPs adhere to it, but it is there and that we are changing it and agreeing with the current situation in parliament. We of the SNS have repeatedly criticised some of the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that they were more criticised by the very ones who brought the Rules of Procedure. Today we have shown how important the living word in parliament is, that dialogue is what is most important. I am quite sure that SNS MPs will not boycott citizens with their non-presence and their unhappiness in the National Assembly, but we will always be there to discuss issues that are important to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57404	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. I'm concluding a joint single search and we're moving to point 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57405	We are moving on to another joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 4 to 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the sittings of Ivan Jovičić, election member of the High Council of Judges and Deputy President of the High Council of the Judiciary, Tatjan Lagumdzija and Sandra Kulezic, election members of the State Connection Prosecutors. Consently order the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 4 to 7 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single investigation on: the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who has been elected by the State Major Prosecutors, the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judiciary, which has been submitted by the High Council of the judiciary, the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which has been submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is Ivan Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57406	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have two motions for a decision to elect judges who are elected for the first time to serve as judges, and which decisions the Supreme Council of the judiciary has set at its meetings on 21.5th and 11.6th day. 2019. The High Council of the Court of Justice announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 103/18 and in the daily list "Politicals" of 28.12.2018 the choice of judges for: The Court of First Instance of Great Gradist, the Court of First Instance in Zrenjanin, the Court of First Instance in Ivanjica, the Court of First Instance in the Kingdom, the Court of First Instance in Kruševec, the Court of First Instance in Mionica, the Court of First Instance in Raška and the Court of First Instance in Uzic. Then, in the “Official Messenger” No. 8/19 and in the daily newspaper “Politics” of 13/02/2019, announced a choice for: Criminal Court in Bačka Palanca, Criminal Court in Zajecar, Criminal Court in Kruševec, Criminal Court in Nis, Criminal Court in Pancheva, Criminal Court in Piroth, Criminal Court in Ruma and Criminal Court in Cačka. In "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 11/19 and in the daily list "Politics" of 21.2.2019, he announced the choice of judges for two other Economic Courts, including Zajecar and Kragujevac. The High Council of the judiciary has established the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates under the provisions of the Law on Judges and the Rules on the Programme and the method of passing the examinations assessing the expertise, the competence of the candidate to be first elected. The High Judicial Council has made a decision on the education of committees to elect judges for the abovementioned courts. The Commission has conducted a test for these candidates who are first elected, and have also held talks with candidates and established a list of candidates published on the website of the High Council of Justice. On the basis of Article 49, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Law on Judges, the Council obtained an opinion on the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates, from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate is working, while for the candidates coming from the courts, it obtained the opinion of the session of all the courts from which the candidate comes, as well as the opinion of the session of all the judges, the direct court. Also, in accordance with the provisions of Article 50(2). The law on judges for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants also provided an assessment of the work. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the judiciary, as regards Article 51(1). The Law on Judges The High Council of the Judiciary has established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a selection of 34 candidates by: Jelena Nikolic, Judge of the General Court in Veliko Gradište, proposes to elect a judge for the Fundamental Court in Velika Gradište; Djorđe Stefanović, Judge for the Higher Court in Požarevec, is proposed to elect the Court of Justice for the General Court in Velika Gradište; Tatjana Pavlovović, Judge of the Court of Justice in the General Court of the General Court of the General Court of the Republic of Croatia; Marija Broćinović, graduates for the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, are proposed to elect the Court of Justice in the General Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. That's the 34 proposals of the High Council of the Judiciary. I have nothing left to ask you to support in the day of the vote all proposals of the High Council of the Judiciary for the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57407	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word is by Sandra Kulezic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57408	Thank you. Honorable MPs, the president-in-Office, are now facing the National Assembly, two proposals by the State's Council of Prosecutors for the election of deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to office. It is a total of 37 candidates in two decisions by the State Council of Prosecutors, which was taken at a session on 30 May 2019 and a decision taken at a session on 12 June 2019. So 37 candidates in a total of 27 prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia have been proposed to elect 27 prosecutors, four judicial assistants, four users of initial training at the Judiciary Academy, one lawyer and one lawyer. So candidates from all groups of candidates who applied for ads issued by the State's Major Prosecutors. What is important to say for this contest and these proposals in general is that the State's Major Prosecutors, in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, in accordance with the Rules on the Labour of the State Connection of Prosecutors, have carried out one extensive and transparent procedure in accordance with the Rules on the method of verifying the expertise, the competence of candidates who were first elected to the Deputy Prosecutor's Office, and have then obtained an opinion from all the institutions in which the candidates and all the candidates who participated in the competition are working, and, in our opinion, upon obtaining these opinions and by verifying the expertise and training of the examination, which was organised by the State's major prosecutors, of all the candidates who applied for the competition have chosen, in our opinion, those who are the most professional and most qualified public prosecutor. What is also important is that, when deciding on the candidates who were ahead of you today, we took particular care of what kind of grades they received in their collectives, and we also took care of how many years of work experience they had in criminal matter. I think it is important to point out that all proposed candidates have been unanimously elected at the Council of Prosecutors' meetings, as well as at the session of the Justice Committee. Following a decision of 30 May 2019, the following candidates were proposed for the election: for the deputy public prosecutor at the First General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Zivkovic Vladimir, prosecutor's assistant in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Lukic Marija, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Mitrovica Daniela, prosecutor's assistant at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Sucur Milan, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judiciary Academy. A deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed: Minic Nenad, prosecutor's assistant at the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and Scekic Zorica, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A deputy public prosecutor in Belgrade's Third General Public Prosecutor, Petrovic Simonida, the prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed. A deputy public prosecutor at the Ubo Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Stević Đuro, prosecutor's assistant at the Ubo General Public Prosecutor's Office. An Antonic Marina, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Valjevo, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica. Lukovic Kurajic Sanja, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Pančevo, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor in Vrsac. In the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, Deputy Prosecutors Dujmic Mirjana, Prosecutor's Assistant to the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Markovic Marko, Prosecutor's Assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma and Pavlovic Aleksandar, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, were proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Ruma, Krljenica Dulikravić Mirjana, a lawyer in the municipality of Ruma, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, Stoisavljevic Jolic Aleksandra, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Vrbas Kulic Darko, prosecutor's assistant at the Sombor Public Prosecutor's Office. Srdanovic Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, was proposed in the main public prosecutor's office. In the main public prosecutor's office in Krusevec, Veljkovic Mirjana, a judge's assistant at the General Court in Tristenik and Spasic Jasmin, a prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office, Raska was proposed by Petrovic Goran, a lawyer, the Cačak Bar Association. In the main public prosecutor's office in Cačka Brkovic Vladimir, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Cačka. The main public prosecutor's office in Gornji Milanovac was proposed by Tomovic Jelena, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac. The main public prosecutor's office in Jagodina, Stanojevic Bojan, a prosecutor's assistant in the same prosecutor's office, was proposed. General Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, Jovanovic Zoran, prosecutor's assistant in the same prosecution. The main public prosecutor's office in Paracino, Karadzic Diana, a prosecutor's assistant at the Prosecutor's Office in Paracino, was proposed. The main public prosecutor's office in Nis, Apostolov Sandra, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Jovanovic Dusan, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis and Kocic Jelena, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy. The main public prosecutor's office in Alexinac, Stankovic Nebojsa, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. The main public prosecutor's office in Vranj, Boroja Dusan and Jovcic Ivana, both prosecutorial assistants at the Vranj General Public Prosecutor's Office, were proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Prokuplje, Pantovic Milan, a judge's assistant at the primary court in Prokuplje, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Piroth, Stankovic Emina, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, was proposed. The main public prosecutor's office in Negotin Stojanovic Ivan, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Bor. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han, Vukojičić Jovic Mirjana, prosecutor's assistant at the Vranj General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. When it comes to the decision of 12 June 2019, Deputy Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor in Mladenov, Radulovic Lidija, prosecutor's assistant in the same prosecutor's office, and Deputy Public Prosecutor in Arangelovac, Cetenovic Jovanovic, prosecutor's assistant at the Kragujevac General Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. At the beginning of the presentation, I set out the criteria for the DVT to be managed when proposing these candidates. I believe that all the proposed candidates are ready to justify our trust and I call on MPs in the National Assembly to vote fully for all candidates on both proposals that we have tabled to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57409	Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government MP Petar Petrovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57410	The Honorable Chairman, the distinguished representatives of the DVT and the VSS, I will, with a few sentences only to inform the distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, the MPs, that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, at its meetings discussed the proposed candidates for the selection of judges of the basic courts and criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia and for the deputies of the primary prosecutors and unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept the proposed candidates proposed by DVT and VSS. In the meantime, a statement came from one candidate who was proposed to the Deputy Prosecutor General in Kruševec, and it is about Mrs Veljković Mirjan, who, by written means, approved everything, withdrew her candidacy and expressed her wish, or request, to give up her candidacy for the election of the Deputy Prosecutor General in Kruševec and not to be elected, so I ask her to be exempt from voting for all candidates when we vote on one, the other, the third and fourth lists and that Mrs Veljković Mirjana does not vote for the Deputy Prosecutor General in Kruševec, because she said it herself, or by written means, to say that she would not be elected to the place for which she was proposed. For all other candidates, the proposal as put forward in the proposals of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, which was confirmed by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, so I call on all honourable colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, to support the proposed candidates and candidates for the first election of judges of basic and criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57411	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57412	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly is performing one of its functions, so today it is holding an election function by electing new judges and prosecutors whether or not it is re-election. I will just have to remind all MPs that a recent session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee was held, which also included Mrs Kuburovic, which explained the need for constitutional changes in the area of justice in the Republic of Serbia. The essence of these constitutional changes is that the National Assembly is completely excluded from the process of electing judges, under the pretext that this is, in fact, the way of politicising the judiciary. Now it's one text of about a dozen sides, very not content, where some floscules are repeated, which we have had the opportunity to hear in these 19 years, such as progress in the negotiation process, harmonisation of rights, i.e. Harmonization with EU law and what is most bizarre is the first sentence of the document that says – the Republic of Serbia has been firmly defined as belonging to the EU, i.e. the European family of the people. I don't know when the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia when it was defined as belonging to the EU, when asked about it, I only know that the occupation power in Serbia is from 5 October to today, adheres to the principle called - the EU has no alternative. Then, of course, we are forced to even some things that we see are not good for us without talking. Today, a representative of a parliamentary group said in a previous debate when we discussed whose mandate it was, whether it was from a list or from a MP, although it is the most abnormal situation in our political system that has a proportionate system of election of MPs, that now every MP is acting as though he owns his mandate and that the people were voting for him, and usually Serbian citizens because of their lack of interest and non-information, do not know more than, perhaps five or six leading people on each of the electoral lists participating in the elections. That's why every MP thinks he has citizens' trust. He said -- we had to do it for the EU. So let's adopt that change. the opinion of the Constitutional Court. So we had to change our constitution that way. So, that can be explained now, whether it was someone holding a gun over our heads, whether it was some kind of blackmail, whether we were hostages or what happened, so we had to. I don't know what it means. We had to. It usually seems to me that something that is not a sovereign decision or at all the will of the Republic of Serbia and its highest authorities. So now in this case. There is something older than the EU and European bureaucracy from Brussels, which is the principle of sharing power that, in order for a country to be called democratic, it must adopt the principle of power-sharing, to the most perfect form in this sense, the US system and their so-called so-called. the brake system and balance i.e. Checks and balances, where one government controls the other. We are now calling for more and more relevant authority, according to Ms Nela Kuburovic, in the area of the judiciary, which is the Venice Commission, which resents the Republic of Serbia and the state of justice because judges are elected in the Serbian Parliament. Serbia, as a country of limited sovereignty, seems unable to allow itself to say – I'm sorry, but I guess we know something from that area too. We're not a country that was created yesterday or a nation that doesn't have any legal tradition and never had a Assembly before you from the Venice Commission showed up, so we ourselves don't know how things should work. It seems that we are unable to do so, and then we respect these opinions and we are irrevocably following the recommendations of the Venice Commission, we who had the laws in the Middle Ages, the long constitutional tradition, the legal tradition and the tradition of parliamentaryism and democracy, we who, at the time of absoluteism in Europe, were about the 19th century when even the Assembly in Serbia changed Knjaz Milos, the absoluteist, the ruler of Serbia, and the Assembly could replace it. And now we need someone to come on the sidelines and tell us that we don't know anything, and that's why they're recommendations from the Venice Commission, and if we want to join the European Union, we need to accept it without any discussion. It's here that everything that's been said about the amendments to the Constitution in the area of justice is abnormal. Can anyone imagine that, here is a Federal Republic of Germany, also one country with a rich, legal tradition, history and so on, that now the representatives of the Venice Commission, which is responsible, since Germany is also in the Council of Europe, coming to the Federal Minister of Justice in Germany and saying - You know, this way you choose judges, it is retrograde, it is not at all in line with European standards and European Commission opinions, that you choose judges in the Bundestag and choose them in the province's lower-ranking parliaments, you should now make an independent academy, body or anything that will exclusively deal with the choice of a judge. What would the German Federal Minister say about you and could anyone possibly imagine such a situation? No, because it is possible only in countries of limited sovereignty such as the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and all other countries that serve today alone, with regrets, I must say, as a testing polygon, to see what will happen if, for example, we introduce that principle into Serbia, either in Montenegro or in Macedonia, a polygon to test these some of the biggest nebuloses coming from the European Union. No sovereign state should allow it, especially if it knows better. We now need to enter the process of amending the Constitution. The Constitution is the most important act in which the entire legal order of a state begins, one society that determines the basic principles of the value of a society, where, after all these principles, the laws are developed, but it is likely that the division of power is one of the most important principles. Our opinion here is completely different, and behavior and understanding. We don't take this as a division of power. We understand the National Assembly and at all the work and operation of the National Assembly as some mere formality where some 300 minutes should pass or some people turn or don't turn around, we get some reports, it all goes through and it's over and it's just one formality that needs to be passed in order for some act to become part of the legal system. That, unfortunately, has been our reality in Serbia for 19 years. We do not understand that the Assembly is the most important political institution to control, first of all, the work of the government, not that it serves only to nod and to confirm what comes from the government, independent now of what is on the agenda today. That opinion here is completely lost. I have not seen the Venice Commission react to this because the conditions that are in line with EU requirements are met here, and as long as that is the case, they will never be disturbed by the fact that we may not be working exactly as we do with some basic democratic principles. I'm sorry Mr. Milojevic isn't here. I would very much like to see what he thinks about this and his statements a year ago when he said that the National Assembly should be completely excluded from the process of electing judges because it is in line with the action plan for Chapter 23. So, not because it's bad for selecting judges, because it's a wrong procedure, which is nowhere proven in the world or any kind of anomaly, but because it's not in accordance with Chapter 23. That's what Mr. Milojevic said in an interview with "Evening News". It's an abnormal thing in itself. So that chapter can change again. It can change, so they can make us go back to the way we were. Who can guarantee us the quality of what is contained in the negotiating frameworks? There is nothing of quality there, there is only about meeting the conditions that corresponds to the other negotiating party in Serbia's EU accession negotiation process, and that is all. In the United States, the U.S. president elects judges of the Supreme Court, but the Senate must approve them first. Can anyone imagine that someone would transfer to the Americans what they undemocratically behave in the election of judges or in federal states? No, but only in these countries that are in colonial position and in which everything is allowed. As long as the conditions are met unspeakably here, we can have a variety of tests from all walks of social life, so here we are from the judiciary. So, if the National Assembly chooses judges, I guess it's a guarantee of all this public procedure, because we can never expect to have a body there that will be in charge of electing judges or prosecutors that it will be independent and that it will do things exactly right if there is no control by the legislative authority and there in some cabinets to elect judges who know whose proposal and who knows what way. So here, in the National Assembly, there is a public procedure. We always know who the candidates are, we know what they've been doing so far, we know their biographies, and the political public is maximumly informed about all that matters, the election of judges. If we leave it to some bodies and it shuts down completely, then we only have a problem with the choice of judges, because they're without any control, and that's the branch of government. The judiciary is a branch of power. The judiciary is one, apart from the legislative and executive authorities, the government in Serbia. How can it now be chosen in some nontransparent way so-called. Independent experts? The fact that more and more people in Serbia who appear in public on various occasions are calling for their independence, so-called independence. or when someone says more and more to themselves that he is not a member of any political party, it acts like at a time of communism, when they were racing who would reach more in the Communist party or who had become a member before or who had a monument or something else. So, in itself, it is now bad enough for someone to be a member of a political party, and that is why someone is increasingly emphasising themselves that he is independent or that he is not a member of any party. You know, when someone is justified multiple times without any question that he's independent and that he's not a member of any political party, it just assures the contrary that there's some political influence on that someone. On the other hand, if there really is a politicisation of the judiciary, can anyone in Serbia think that pressure on judges and everything that happens with the judiciary is done by the National Assembly? If there's a politicisation of the judiciary, if there's a pressure on the judges, then I guess the executive authority is doing it not now because of specific cases in this time, in these seven years of progressive power, but before that. Can anyone disagree with that? But, no, we were told by the Venice Commission that politicizing the judiciary is an influence on judges. So, one big nebulosis. So we are calling for an opinion, and here also Mrs Kuburovic has explained various suggestions, the Serbian Judges' Society? Watch out, members of a branch of government, in this case the judicial authorities, establish their own society, their own association or union or whatever. Is that normal? Can anyone imagine the society of ministers or the society of MPs, so now the society of MPs is meeting and thinking – the Parliament's reform should be this way, from now on it needs a legislative function to be done in this way, etc. How can people who perform public functions within one of the branches of the government set up their associations and trade unions and then appear with these acts and opinions, with some complete legitimacy to speak in public what and how should be done? It's nowhere, it can only be here in Serbia, because we act like we don't know better, we don't know what quality is, and we think that everything that comes within the negotiating framework that it's what we want and that someone on the side knows better than us and that we're going to make some progress. Nothing will change to us, whatever conditions we meet, as far as Serbia's EU membership is concerned, since all this is done just for that. I remind you that the Republic of Greece and Northern Macedonia have recently signed the so-called The Spanish accord, which had changed the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, where there was not even enough support in the referendum to adopt it and, of course, in a non-democratic way, the EU supported it, less than 50% of its turnout, and in turn they were promised to open accession negotiations, to advance in Euro-Atlantic integrations, etc., and then we saw shortly thereafter, two months later, that certain European countries blocked negotiations with Macedonia and in addition to everything they had done at the expense of their countries and their democracies and democratic political will of their citizens and everything else. That's how it's gonna be in Serbia. They'll transport us thirsty across the water. We will meet all these abnormal recommendations and opinions from these negotiating frameworks and action plans etc. What may be most frightening is the recognition of Kosovo's independence through the signing of a legally binding agreement between the so-called. Kosovo, that is, so-called Pristina and Belgrade to get something in return, which should be EU membership, and we will not get it. We can see that on Macedonia's comparative case that this will not happen. That is why the National Assembly should influence the fact that things in Serbia, as far as the judiciary is concerned, do not change up, that we do not listen to the unspeakable proposals of some international, groups of international hohstapplers who call themselves the Venice Commission, who thinks he knows better than the law schools in Serbia, legal professionals in Serbia, judges of the Constitutional Court and other judges, etc. And these judges are also making these statements, and they're working against their professions. We will not succeed, we will not progress, we will get nothing, we will never become EU members, and we will continue to destroy our political system, our constitutional order and our society as a whole. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57413	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57414	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, at the very beginning of the discussion on this agenda I want to make clear to you the position of the SPS parliamentary group, that in the day of voting we will support your proposals and that, in addition to this proposal, which was presented by distinguished colleague Petar Petrovic with a clear explanation, I hope that all together we will choose candidates now, and then the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions just as it is proposed. What is important is to point out that for the time being, you are extremely correct and professionally acting according to positive regulations that are not yet predicting anything new when it comes to the choice of judicial holders, both in terms of the choice of judges and the election of prosecutors. So, as far as constitutional amendments are concerned, I will look very briefly at the very end because I do not want to come out of the topic, that is, the agenda point, and what should be pointed out as commendable because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is that you have established one continuity of transparency in work, transparency in evaluation, transparency in the assessment of candidates in terms of the election and transparency of the process itself, that is, the procedure by which the candidate is assessed, and ultimately chooses. Why am I saying this? Because citizens mostly slave to prejudice that the High Council of the Judiciary, either the State's Major Prosecutor's Office is working under the mortgage of some political influence. I have to remind myself of a fact that no one here, nor a significantly wider one, can doubt, that almost never happened that any proposal by the State Council of Prosecutors or the High Council of Justice in general was rejected by the legislators or by the Members of the People's Parliament. Therefore, all proposals are maximumly respected and all proposals are generally accepted. A small number of those who have been challenged, and those who have been challenged, had some reason to argue and to be honest, there is responsibility because someone has not been elected has taken over the legislative authority, not the judicial, or the public prosecutorial and judicial authority. And if there is a responsibility, then it's our responsibility, not yours. What is very important to point out is the fact that all the candidates you have read here doubtless and from the point of view of what we can assess meet the conditions, mostly for reasons of trust in your work, which is in any case undeniable, on the one hand, and on the other hand, given their biography and the results they have achieved in the work. Of course, citizens need to know what it's worth when they're still being debated today, and I hope the day after tomorrow, they decide who will be elected as legal holders. Well, of course, it appreciates the training and expertise and dignity of every candidate, whether it's a candidate for a prosecutor or a candidate for a judge who's first elected to office. What we have to admit- they didn't want, either you or we, we don't know how they'll work after the election on a judicial post, or after the election to the place they're being elected, because despite everything that has been found by the colleges to have the support of the co-legislators from whom they come from, or from whom they run or the prosecution, basic, higher or more, in a particular case of the basic one, and despite having earned the assessment "in particular, it stands out" and despite the fact that they've shown in their work a certain professional reference that is respected by that assessment itself in "in particular it stands out", and despite the fact that the College was a court, there was a prosecutor's office, took the view that it was about a candidate who deserves attention and who still remains a dilemma - what? What practical work in some effective sense will the words be? Will it be positive, negative, will this candidate be able to resolve the inflow of the case, how up-to-date, what quality of his decision will be, specifically, whether the indictments will be the same as under the Code of Criminal Procedure, or whether the right to respect the principles of the procedural economy on the one hand, on the other hand respect for the prohibition, violates the right to trial within a reasonable period of time? So what remains remains remains for all of these candidates whom you, conditionally, have given your trust, and we have accepted that trust for them, in any case, thought that, hopefully, the day after tomorrow, they will be the holders of judicial functions, that they will justify it. If so, I have to be a little free and honest now, I'm not sure in all cases, because, let's be honest and best student of medical school or engineering college, often in practice as a doctor, the engineer didn't show exactly what he was expected to do, given the exceptional average score, on the other hand, there are also those who had a significantly lower average score so they showed themselves in effective work with exceptional results. So, let's not just slave to the assessment, although the assessment is in any case one of the significant elements in the overall assessment of the candidates. It also gives us the right to expect this trust to be justified. When I say, I have to be free to be a little skeptical, I say more from the point of view of some of my professional experiences than with the desire to generalize. I will never generalise in my life and fear the opposition to generalization when it comes to professions, regardless of what profession it is, whether it is public and judicial, because and how well we know that most prosecutors and judges are doing their job properly and professionally and committed to their relationship with their work give the right character or picture of the judicial system. Unfortunately, there are also those who don't do so and what bothers you, that I keep pointing out and I have to point out today, whether you recognize anything in it or not, and I want you to recognize only good intentions, is the presence of false solidarity when it comes to colleagues. False solidarity in both courts and in the prosecutions because we tend to suggest that a colleague does not have the quality of the decisions he should have, a huge number of abolished decisions, that he works ineffectively in terms of what I said, is the speed of action or urgency of action. So, here's the procedural economy, that even with regard to dignity, his behavior doesn't correspond to the behavior given by the figure of the holder of the judicial function, so I've met with examples that show that he's coming to work, say, at 11.00 hours, with the beginning of the hearing going from 12, so that by five or six hours it ends, etc. Unfortunately, there are cases like this, but what you don't know is the worst because they haven't been processed. Why? Well, because whoever is obliged to look at it and responds adequately to such phenomena, in principle, because of this solidarity or the protection of his colleagues, does not. It undermines the reputation of the judiciary in general. This undermines the reputation of the judiciary in general, unfortunately, because then the label of inefficients also has those judges who are doing their job more than correctly, and of course it also applies to the prosecution. So, in that sense, I think it's also important that you don't, because you don't have that jurisdiction, but that this has to be dealt with primarily by the President of the Court, it's one, and two, those who are at the top of the pyramid at the level of public prosecutorial functions, and these are the primary prosecutors, senior prosecutors, the republican, the relative republican prosecutor, etc. So the hierarchy isn't just a formal premise, it's something that means that in the practical sense of words we have to eradicate literally everything that leads to the collapse of the image of the judiciary. And what I said is true and no matter how much you run away from it, it's repeated and it's a continuous situation that you can't get out of. The moment it comes out of this situation, then we can be absolutely sure that citizens will look at the judiciary and the judicial system in a completely different way and that the justice system on the citizens' trust scale will have a significant leap. I am as confident as most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are convinced. I think you've done a very good job, although I have no intention of revealing the names and last names, because you've read them, but I have a more or less moral obligation to point out the candidate who is besides all the other candidates, who undoubtedly meet the conditions, the candidate from the city from which I come, the candidate for the Chamber of Commerce in Uzica, the candidate is Zorica Gardić, who is indeed at the point of view of the profession, I will underline it, the point of view of the profession, not only the fellow judges in the court, professional associates, judicial assistants, trainees, but also us lawyers have unreserved support because Zorica Gardić is in some way, we can say it in a more persuasive way, the child of the Court of Commerce, who is his own professional education, training, training, training, training of glass in that court and which undoubtedly does not only meet these terms, but that they both represent what they represent. And that's why, Mr. Jovic and your colleague, you have this full support. Of course, I don't want to be in any part of this by discriminating, because all the candidates you've proposed in front of the state's attorney's office are more than quality candidates who will earn their support. At the very end, in just a few minutes, two minutes, to look back at what's waiting for us. We have something that you first deserve and deserve, and then the judiciary in general, which is to improve the material position of judges and prosecutors. Why am I saying this? I am saying because it is and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised and it is intensively done, rather than finding the possibility of increasing the level of earnings, because I will remind you of one fact, which no one will question, if we consider the amount of earnings made by the judge of the basic court, and that profit without any addition or amount of the basic prosecutor's earnings, in relation to the average salary in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, that is not even double the amount of earnings. It's just a little more money. If we have that fact in mind, then we come to a problem that I'm sure will be solved and solved, which is that only for the purpose of being careful of the potential danger of corruptive action, the potential dangers of inefficiency, the potential danger of becoming a syndrome that will metastasize as a cancer, we have to work something out. And it's an appeal to the executive power that in that direction through the resolute ministry in any case responds. I am convinced that it will react because I have strong confidence in both the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I have no doubt that this problem recognises, but cannot wait long, it must not wait long because we have a kind of proportionality for a long time. We always have some kind of focus when it comes to other professions, with a little bit more intensity of support or, as you might say, a dizziness. When it comes to judicial functions, it's still standing in some stand-by and I'm sure we'll move it off the dead end. Of course, when it comes to constitutional amendments, we will not be burdened with them now. We don't have them, we didn't even get to them. But what is important is that these constitutional amendments, in the extreme sense of the words, retain the supervisory role of the Assembly of Labour and, I don't know what it will be called, whether the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in the future, is also the Supreme Council of the Prosecutors. Why? Because it's a mixed composition of those two bodies, a mixed composition in which, in any case, a significant contribution will be made to the profession, which I specifically mean the profession, and on the other hand, the citizens again across the profession. Why over the waist? Because there will be respected and distinguished lawyers, I am convinced, with a passed judicial exam, because it is unimaginable for a lawyer to be a member of such a body without a legal trial. In that sense, if any of you, I wish you, be a member of that body, that you will have unquestionable support. Anyway, I want to say hello to you, to wish you, as you've done so far, still a successful work and advocacy, because you've confirmed that fact, at least as far as we're concerned in the SPS parliamentary group, any happiness and, of course, support for the proposals you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57415	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57416	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, so today, in the principle debate, we have the motions for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors and the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. The justice ministry is responsible for ensuring the conditions necessary for the effective work of judges and prosecutors. This is a good opportunity to look back at at least some of the activities aimed at improving the judiciary. When I say promoting justice, I mean the functioning of courts and prosecutors, but I also think about dealing with citizens who certainly deserve the protection of their rights, who deserve everyone equally to exercise their rights and deserve a serious and effective judicial system, in which the holders of judicial functions will be independent and professional. Let's start with some infrastructure investments, they're the biggest in the last few decades. New court buildings were built in Raška, Pozarevc, Pancheva, Užica, there is the Criminal Court in Belgrade, the Court of Justice in Belgrade, the Court of Justice in Kragujevac. These are all projects that are completed or completed. The buildings were reconstructed in the King's and the Precipice. In Lazarevec, new premises were obtained by the General Public Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Court. There are indeed many other projects like this throughout Serbia. What's the point? In this way, citizens will have equal access to justice, faster procedures, a better quality relationship with judicial authorities, regardless of whether they live in Belgrade, in another big city or a bigger city or in a very small municipality, will have equal access to justice in all parts of Serbia. Special anti-corruption departments have been formed in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and the King. The processing of corrupt crimes has been increased. And now we have information that in a year more than 500 people have been convicted of corrupt crimes. Among convicted persons are officials, there are the presidents of municipalities, directors of enterprises and institutions, judges etc. So, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime had good results in the previous period when it comes to the processing of corrupt crimes. It is also very important to strengthen preventive mechanisms in the fight against corruption in terms of legislation. We remember that this is the Law on lobbying, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, etc. What's very important to mention is that Serbia is not on the so-called. a grey FATF list that implies states with strategic shortcomings in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Serbia has strengthened mechanisms in these areas, has made great efforts to implement the action plan, precisely in order to correct shortcomings in technical and strategic terms. There is also political commitment and support, but there are also institutional capacities to continue implementing reforms in the area of preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. In these areas in the previous year, many laws have been passed, as many as 12 laws have been passed, and 12 laws have come into force. More than 60 regulations and other documents have been adopted. New institutions have been formed, such as The gambling administration, but in many cases the structure of existing institutions has changed. At first, I mentioned the activities which as a result have a direct benefit for the citizens, and with this I want to praise the project, i.e. I would like to say that thanks to the co-operation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is ensured that for example. The fact of divorce automatically enrolls in the marriage parent's book. The parents themselves will file a change in the marital status based on an electronic report from the competent court. Networking databases makes it easier for citizens, but also makes it easier for management employees and enables more efficiency, reduces time and spending our citizens' money. It is the e-Justice that will improve the system of electronic exchange of data from judicial and other state authorities to reduce judicial proceedings, speed up the work of the judiciary and reduce costs and bureaucracy. These are just some of the successes of the Justice Department that I chose to talk about. There's a lot more of them, but unlike the times when it's like that. The minister of justice was Snezana Malovic. What the DS boasted was just a catastrophic reform of the judiciary. The party's assets are errors in the judicial system that we are correcting today and the consequences of the judicial system. Unfortunately, there's a lot of examples. It is very bad to put judicial authority under the influence of politics, under the direct control of a political party. It is very bad that the election of judges and prosecutors is decided by politicians who then made lists of similar and inappropriate candidates on DS committees throughout Serbia. The judges who were then out of work lost their jobs in an anti-constitutional manner and were charged by the state and eventually again, the citizens, neither guilty nor liable, borne those costs and, neither guilty nor debtors, suffered, and on the other hand suffered in procedures conducted by, ignorant, unprofessional judges, whose rulings were written by DS officials. Ordered trials have brought down our judiciary, and citizens' trust in judicial authorities can be said to have been zero. You remember earlier in the sessions we mentioned the Municipality of Vlasotince here as a drastic example of how candidates for judges and prosecutors were appointed. There was nothing different in Nis. DS members, sympathisers, loyal DS listeners, DS activists vulnerable to political influences were identified as usable, of course, corrupt, such as candidates for judges and prosecutors from the time of judicial reform in 2008 and 2009. Thus, Snezana Malovic, with her position and function, actually protected the collapse of the judicial system for putting it under absolute control of the DS. They held courts with court presidents in V.D. the condition to be more easily manipulated and blackmailed, elected by judges from the party ranks, and that was actually all they had done at the time in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. There were no other activities, and in particular there were no other activities involved in the improvements of the judiciary. They weren't implemented. Today, we can conclude that, as they did while in power, ossion and haughty, they behave today. We had a chance the other day to see how Dragan Gilas said in his statement that he pictured democracy. We had the opportunity to see how his relationship with the media was and how much hatred he actually treated anyone who didn't have the same opinion, who didn't share the same opinion with him. In fact, at a press conference for the Alliance for Serbia, some journalists were not allowed to ask questions, and if some of them could even ask a question, instead of answering, they were experiencing inconveniences and insults. He gave himself the right to share journalists with real journalists and non-real journalists, according to only him known criteria. I am absolutely sure that these criteria are about exactly the political resemblance, and all because the journalist dared to do his job, all because the journalist asked a question that Dragan Gilas didn't like at the time. Why? Because it refers to his affairs. On this occasion, I'd like to tell him to answer those questions, which the press has asked him, he doesn't owe just to the press. He answers questions about his affair, in fact, owes all citizens of Serbia. Just because he thinks he's managed not to answer such questions doesn't mean that citizens don't know, doesn't mean that Belgraders don't remember how it was owned by Dragan Gilas and doesn't mean they won't punish it in the elections. Every day, but literally every day they accuse Alexander Vukic of censorship of the alleged state of the media that is bad. Everyone's saying, apparently, on television what Vucic tells them and what's written in Vucic's office, and now I'd like to ask a question - did someone react to the insults that Dragan Gilas sent to the press? Did anyone condemn Gilas' promise, and Gilas said that at a press conference, and we could all see and hear it? Has anyone condemned his promise that when he comes to power, some televisions will take away the national frequency? So what we can conclude is that nothing has changed in that policy. The only thing that might have perfected was haughtiness. With them in power, that's what a media picture would be, so would the judiciary. One thing would be certain, as far as the judiciary is concerned, if these people came back to power again, which is that no one would be responsible for affairs and malfeasance. I'll continue on the second call with a speech I've prepared. In the end, I just want to say, I want to look at the candidacy for a little while. What my moral obligation as a MP is to say that I think there are better candidates, better quality candidates for deputy public prosecutors. It's about Srdanovic Jelena, the prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, who is the candidate I would challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57417	Thank you. The word is Sandra Kulezic, the state's major prosecutor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57418	Since we have now heard that the largest parliamentary group plans to challenge a candidate who has been proposed as deputy public prosecutor in Šapec, I would insist that if possible, we hear the reasons why this candidate is being challenged. As you know, the choice of deputy public prosecutors is done on the basis of expertise, competence and dignity, and regarding a particular candidate, I would point out certain elements of this biography, and just to hear what in this biography may be disputed to challenge this candidate as a proposal for the election of a deputy public prosecutor, since it is a candidate who finished law school within the time of the average assessment of 9.00, a judicial exam, then passed in 2012, eight years of working experience under a legal trial and, afterwards, master of the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad University of Criminal Matter. In addition, as early as December 2016, this candidate received an assessment of the state council's expertise and skills. That's what I have to say about this candidate, and I'd like to hear the reasons why this candidate is being challenged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57419	Thank you. Fellow Members Žarić Kovacevic, you have the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57420	Thank you, Chairman. I've already given my reasons in my reporting. I think there are better and better-quality candidates than Srdanovic Jelena, but right now, in this announcement I will tell you that I have the knowledge that this candidate is a member of the Democratic Party and that is why I want the National Assembly to particularly declare itself on this candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57421	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57422	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, I must say that I am always extremely pleased and always glad when Parliament is on the agenda to elect judges, so-called. The first choice of judges and the first choice of deputy prosecutors, as this shows only that Serbia, as well as the government and government, which is supported by a parliamentary group of Socialist Movements, People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party create conditions for a new, young man to enter both courts and prosecutors and to work successfully with older, experienced colleagues, draw their experience and knowledge, so to speak, those trade-orientated qualifications and this job continues to work far better in the future period. In fact, if I am not mistaken, roughly, more than 400 and a few young people have been elected for the last three years for the first time as performers of the judicial and public prosecutor's office, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, and this speaks and shows a clear definition and relationship both between the institutions in which you work and the overall conditions for increasing the number of people engaged in these two very important areas when it comes to the functioning of the Republic of Serbia. Frankly, to me, the most important angle of view is that ordinary citizen, who absolutely expects to live in a country that is safe, to know what is certain, what is allowed, what is not allowed, to be protected, that the decisions made in these procedures are just, fair and law-based, even though we all know that sometimes justice and what is in accordance with the Law are not always the same, but of course it must be pursued by this absolute ideal of all of it. The fact is that there is still not a sufficient number, according to my own free judgment, of public prosecutors and public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia for one reason, and that is because a serious part of the work in the conduct of the criminal proceedings has been transferred to the sole jurisdiction of the public prosecutor's office, which is the prosecution's investigation. We can't get efficiency by prescribing to someone how many judgments they have to make, how many cases they have to solve, because in one really serious way we can endanger the quality of the decisions they're making, or we can have a very bad impact on the quality of the procedures they're taking. For this reason, apart from increasing the number of people, that is, my distinguished colleagues, both in the public prosecutor's office and in the court, should help both the efficiency and faster decision-making of good and just decisions. We must also look at where we are in relation to some other countries in the environment or EU countries, and that some of the novelties introduced in the last 15 years, so that I can call them, in a colloquial term, which is the existence of judicial assistants, expert associates, or prosecutor's assistants and prosecutor's associates, look at the right and the right way. What I have as personal knowledge is that judges in European courts, who do not have much less per capita in Serbia, if that is any parameter, have at least three to five associates, whether they are the rank of judicial assistants or professional associates who practically prepare the whole procedure for the judge, whose only job is practically to hold the trial, make the right decision where the jury does not decide solely what is going to be, to look at the verdict, or to dismiss the verdict, which is and what is done, and this really gets a lot of quality. We may also reach this necessary number of judges who can practically carry out their legal obligation and the obligation to function, which is that they work effectively, but only if we continue to work on increasing the number of judicial assistants, expert associates and clearly detailing the possible role of a judicial assistant or a public prosecutor, would I not be able to separate although these are two different kinds of proceedings in some even significant differences, but they are essentially not so different that they cannot be unitedly spoken. So their role is in the process itself. Is he a litigator, is it a prosecutor's investigation, is it any of that, I think that next review of changes in legal, procedural rights should allow for more direct participation of these categories in the process itself. Is this going to come to mind just taking statements on the minutes that will later be served in the process, so you don't need to be aware of the work of a judge's assistant or associate or a public prosecutor's associate just one part, how can I say, invisible, marginalized completely, which is that somewhere in the shadows, they prepare as much as they can, because we know that we have courts where one judicial assistant helps in the work and four and five judges, and that's simply something that affects the quality of the decisions that are finally being made. Of course, material legal status and judges and prosecutors is something that is very important. A long time ago someone far smarter than me said that the best state is the one that has very well-paid judges, prosecutors, cops and doctors who have no business at all. It's the best state, because it makes sure that it secures its functioning system, and the result is that these categories of people without excessive work and burdens say they did their job properly and in quality. I'm not going to talk about some of the things that we face every day, about the articles in the press, about all sorts of comments that are completely inappropriate, but I have to remind the judiciary, and the prosecution has to take care of one detail or propose it for a change, which is that even if judges and prosecutors can't come forward without the consent of the president of the courts or the competent public prosecutor, except for those whose job is exclusive. They simply put in place the full judiciary and the entire prosecution that someone is giving himself and a serious reason to engage in controversy and comments that should not be a topic when it comes to everyday life. In this part, and only the judiciary must do a lot of work, because it seems to me that individuals are not concerned except in the professional organisations that should of course exist, they also have certain types of involvement in the NGO sector which can indeed lead to serious doubts and the thinking of their credibility when it comes to handling cases. I do not think that it is necessary for colleagues who do so, nor should the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if there is a clear distinction, if I may say so, and the distance between the affairs dealing with politics and the affairs that have been done by those who have been honored to be elected by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia as judges or prosecutors, that these types of authorities be entrusted to them and, of course, as is a fact, almost all of them meet it with the greatest good, honorably and honestly. One more thing, although it may not be the subject of today's debate, but it is conditionally said, because today on the list of those whose first election is being spoken of are future judges for violations, which is the fact that it was possible in some previous period, I expect that it will also be done, when it comes to material status and judges for violations, equalises with all the other judges in the Republic of Serbia, because that small step remains to be fully equal with their fellow judges, because, according to all the obligations they have and in the procedures they are doing absolutely even. The place where different opinions face when it comes to proposals for the election of judges, for the first choice of judges and the first choice of deputy prosecutors, indeed, is parliament. I always respect the opinion of the profession, but I always have to leave the possibility that even the waist can't always know everything and judge it well. It is not just enough that someone has graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam, even successful in certain tests and all of this, to be entrusted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with a truly great responsibility through parliament, thus bringing a huge power into his hands, which is to judge on behalf of the people. We will support these proposals, which are not controversial. About what's been disputed, we'll seriously consider it. We'll hear in the next discussion probably even more arguments and attitudes on one side and on the other about what can really be done and I think only one more quality decision can be produced from such a discussion than one that would be made that there is no place where such opinions can be faced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57423	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for decisions under point. 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. The word first has the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. He's not present. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57424	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, judges must understand that they are not independent of the law, that their independence is not divine and that they must be independent of various types of crime. I know that justice to people, and that's one saying, often more severe than injustice. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that the deputy prosecutors we elect, that the judges we choose who first come to office, that they will not do what they do, that they will not do what they do, that I am precise, because I am a member of the Justice Committee, that they will not do what certain judges in Serbia do, that they will judge by law and not by other interests, that they will judge to satisfy our people, not the United States. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope there won't be any new Judge Majic among the judges. I understand that the High Council of the Judiciary tried to protect Judge Majic, even giving them the right, but I did not hear, or, unfortunately, I heard, that when the aforementioned judge entered the political show, Olije Bećković, I did not hear that the High Council of the Judiciary did not condemn it, but at least rebuked it. They said he needed the consent of an elder, a superior, but that's, they say, an overruled rule. Let's also tell the MPs that we have a rule out of the constitution. There are no overruled rules. It's either there, or it's gone. I may have gone too far, but Judge Majic has done it far more. The verdict I have commented since 2013, if I have no right to comment on the 2013 verdict, then I have no right to comment on the verdict of Draža Mihajlovic, if that is such a rule. So the rules apply only to MPs, the rules don't apply to judges. It should be the other way around. We're politicians, and, by circumstances, I comment on that verdict because it hurt my people deeply. I don't mean my people as property, but the people I belong to, not just the nation, but the whole people, all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's been released 11th, illegally released 11th, I repeat, the KLA of terrorists who, the Gjilan group, killed 80 Serbs, 250 tortured. They were killed by the method of taking the soul lightly, which means they were tortured to death. Women's breasts were cut and fried, thrown on fire. That's what I have to talk about. And there's no price I won't pay. But this verdict is illegal. That's not what I found out. This was determined by the Supreme Court of Cassation, that there was a violation of the law by judges at the expense of the victims and for the benefit of the accused. He did it to protect the law. It's well played. But Albanian terrorists have already been released. The trial cannot be repeated, neither in Pristina nor anywhere, because the rules say - when the protection of legality, when it is not at the expense of the accused, then the trial is not repeated. If I'm not mistaken, that's how it is. I also know why it was done - that the anger of the people would not turn away, because the existence of a special court in Pristina was questioned, because our judges claimed that war crimes did not exist after 10 June, because a truce was concluded with the KLA. We signed a truce with the NATO Pact, not the KLA. Because the KLA is war crimes, and that was one legal conclusion of the Supreme Cassation Court before that shameful verdict, the KLA committed all these war crimes after 10 June 1999. It's a shameful verdict and we have to talk about it. That the Supreme Cassation Court in Belgrade did not bring the verdict down through the protection of legality, but Albanians have already been released and the existence of a special court in Pristina has been questioned, which would be a disaster. That is why the Supreme Cassation Court has left that possibility for some other Albanians to be tried. But what surprises me is that the High Judicial Council did not initiate a procedure for the resolution of Judge Majic and Hadziomerovic, because the Supreme Court of Cassation found that there was a violation of the law by the judges, to the harm of the victims, and to the benefit of the accused. I still claim that Serbs have the right to be victims, not just criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57425	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57426	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear proposings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we spoke of the judiciary and the prosecution several times in this Assembly, of course, each time pointing to the situation in the cities from which we come, the Sandzak region and the kind of conflict between certain parts of the prosecution, the judiciary and crime. Unfortunately, there hasn't been much change here. Still in courts in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin and others there are these strong ties and the citizens of these cities are in some way hostage to such links and such criminal activities of individual prosecution structures and, of course, certain corrupt judges. That's what we've said several times, and I'm going to talk a little bit about some other phenomena that are also somewhat worrying us and that are causing some kind of discomfort among the citizens of New Pazar and other places in this area. For example, it's very indicative and we've had here several times mentioning the case of student Bakan Ernad of Novi Pazar who was killed at a pedestrian crossing in Zemun. At the insistence of the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the interior minister assured us that indeed the police were doing their job adequately and in quality. However, still the family and a lot of citizens protest why the case, behold, four months after the events in the judiciary. We still don't have any concrete shifts in that case. For example, I personally faced certain situations in the Supreme Court in Belgrade when I attended a lawsuit in which a medium was saddened by certain politicians, when literally the judge tried not to respect the Constitution and the Law on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, especially members of national minorities and communities, trying to challenge members of Bosniak nationality to have a trial in their native language. As a fellow MP, I was here, and I was sure of it. That was a month ago. Judge Dragan Marcetic, the Supreme Court judge in Belgrade, tried to do so only after the insistence of those people who sought constitutionally guaranteed law, she approved it. However, her conduct did not enter the record of that trial at all. So all of this puts us in a position, especially members of the national communities, that we still have some double standards, unfortunately, because this is a discount in respect of respecting the constitutional right of members of the national communities because I attended the trial as a national MP. It became somewhat later aware of that judge, so she allowed it to be respected. Otherwise, those who don't have that kind of legal or let's say other support are likely to encounter these kinds of problems very often. So it would be very good for the High Council of the Judiciary to really work on these things and, let's say, some additional beliefs by speeding up some processes, even the Bakan family. We want justice to be equal for everyone, that whoever kills a child from the province at a walking crossing in Zemun, a child who is also a member of a minority nation, is punished as is punished by all others who commit any crime, say, over those who are from Belgrade, who are members of the majority people. It is something that is very current today and upsets not only the family, but a large number of citizens of New Pazar, as well as Sandzak. To allow us everywhere, in all courts and in all prosecutors, to have an equal process, when it comes to respect for constitutional categories, especially the official use of the mother tongue and especially of equal status. For example, he's still active, and we don't know if the murder of Scarep Farudin two years ago won his epilogue, although that young man was killed by members of the Home Office. So these are some cases that are no longer responsible for the Ministry of the Interior, but the judiciary, the prosecution and which still sort of camp and cause some kind of discomfort among the minority peoples, in this case Bosniaks, that the judiciary in our country is equal for all citizens, members of all national communities and all peoples. In addition, if I add this still present to any kind of crime and the parts of the prosecution and the judiciary in our courts, then we are indeed somewhat subordinated to what the Constitution guarantees us. I use this as another appeal and importance, hoping that the newly elected court or judges elected for the first time on this post will be more sensitive to these cases and contribute to the equal and attainable rights and justice for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57427	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57428	Thank you, Chairman. I think he's a very rudely injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure, the dignity of this house has been injured. In this way we talk about the alleged conflict of crime, the judiciary, the prosecution, that such words are heard from this house is indeed absolutely inadmissible. If there are concrete names, concrete persons and persons, it is one thing, but generalising and thus insulting the entire Serbian judiciary is completely inappropriate. Indeed, I can understand everyone's pain, but I simply can't believe it, nor do I want to believe that the Serbian judiciary can make any difference between the nationality of any victim who has become a victim in any way. So I think that the Rules of Procedure is absolutely injured and I ask you to respond in time and time to this kind of thing, because simply if you hear it from this home, in this way, then it really gets some 25th dimension, which has nothing to do with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57429	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57430	Thank you. A colleague probably didn't hear right. I did not generalise, I was already talking about the courts in Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica and strictly took note of these courts, and especially because a number of criminal charges have been filed, especially since they were filed even with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, even from 2013, 2014, and beyond, because of the involvement of certain and parts of the prosecution and parts of the judiciary in such an affair. Unfortunately, we've never received an answer from the D.A.'s office for organized crime or anyone else. But there are written documents about it. I wouldn't talk here, because those investigations aren't over. We should probably get that kind of response from the DA's office for organized crime. I've been expecting them since 2013. After six years, we still have no answer to a number of lawsuits against specific offenders or those who have misused their powers. I again underline, I said, "parts", not all of the system, not all judges, not all prosecutors and not all of the system at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57431	I don't think there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure and you took advantage of the opportunity to replicate. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, now first the High Council of the Court, we expected today or the other day before, or the other day after, that you would propose to us the election of the President of the Court. A lot of courts don't have presidents. We have resolved a large number of court presidents here on your proposal, and we think it was inadmissible, somewhere in 2010, I think, in 2010, when the courts were, or the presidents of the courts were in V.D. the condition and that was very bad. That, of course, was possible to use by the executive authority was used, to understand each other, and that's why we think it was supposed to be your first job. Secondly, these concrete proposals that we have here, we have in principle, this time we haven't dealt with, we're not going to deal with individual cases, just a few principle remarks, and that applies to both prosecutors and judges. First, this unnecessary push of this judicial academy, that's our long-known attitude. We don't think that's good, and we don't need it as some kind of liquid European Commission, but, well, some of us thought we needed it. In any case, we're against some people who finish that academy especially forging, because it's known that not everyone in that academy can even enroll, and that it depends not on success, but on some other things. What we noticed here, not just now, but at all, from the beginning, it wasn't really from the very beginning, you first marked with the candidate when they finished, how many years they finished their studies and what average. We don't have averages anymore. The judges who have been elected and the ones who would like to be, and not on your list and your proposal for a choice, say you're drowning on purpose, because you're proposing judges who finished college with a pretty low average. Now, we've heard about a candidate for a deputy public prosecutor in Capco that you have information that it's a lady who's been made an observation that she's a member of the DS, which is kind of like this, so I'd say it's inconclusive. We can't understand that there are, I really wasn't paying attention, I absolutely don't know who it's about, but it's not a serious reason. First, because all judges and all prosecutors have at least certain sympathy for some parties, and that's normal, you know, if it weren't for that, then these judges and prosecutors would be declared second-row people and forbid you to go out to the polls, if we were to end up. But you said, for example. That lady finished college with an average score of nine. We're missing that information for all the other candidates. I've looked at, of course, each of these proposals, the truth, the largest number of candidates have completed college around 24 years of their lives, which can be taken as a regular study, but there are one number of candidates who have studied until 27, year, up to 29 and up to 32 years of life. We don't think anyone who's studied that much could be a judge, yet, the judge is, let me say, some special lawyer. First of all, he should be a great student and that in time he's both a college and a judicial exam, it's simply a branch of government that the people expect something special from, and that in itself you have to be, just like that, you have to rise above a lot of things and so on, so that's why it's our observation. Also, what's missing from all these proposals, you say you've formed a commission and that some candidate is rated by an estimate of five, that at the Supreme Court session he got the best grades and so on, but what about the other candidates? We don't know exactly how much it is and what exactly the candidates have been reported to be in a particular judge or public prosecutorial post. That's what we'd like to know, so we can compare that candidate to maybe five other candidates he's had, and then we can talk about some objective reasons why he's proposed and why he's not. That should be in the future. These two things you have to correct for all the future proposals that come to us, one is the average study score, with what we have, and the other is who the candidates are and what their grades are. We have here in some of the arguments you say, the candidate and that one is proposed, and the other candidates that the commission assessed by the evaluation five are proposed for some other court because they applied there. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. You know, we don't know, we have to have specifics. You know exactly how precise you must be in your statement when you make judgments or when you accuse, so must you here when it comes to talking to the MPs. The next thing I want to tell you, I'm afraid there's something I don't skip, here's something that's really a problem that you have to think about, first of all you judges, you have to find a way, some judges in some previous period were really under direct control, so I can say, by power, but by influence in any case by executive authority. We remember all Nate Mesarovic, we received a verdict instead of a verdict and we know how it all ended, but I remind you that in Serbia by November 2001 the highest sentence was 15 years in prison and 20 years in exchange for the death penalty. The criminal code was changed in 2001 and the death penalty was replaced by a 40-year sentence. The law came into force on 1 March 2002. At the time, Vladan Batic was also the minister, and the prosecutor, and the judge, and the lawyer, he was everything. The Vladan Batic in some interesting way obliged the judges, the court council, to rule where they imposed a 40-year sentence on alleged perpetrators of some crimes committed at a time when such a punishment was not intended. In particular, I am talking about Milorad Ulemek Legija, the 40-year sentences he was told for the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic, for the murder of Ivan Stambolic, one was committed in 2000 on February 25th, this on October 3, 1999, and on June 16, 2000. So long before it was possible to impose a 40-year sentence. You must respond to the request of a lawyer, Milorad Ulemek, and these proceedings must return to the beginning and must be tried in accordance with the law. So, what someone wanted, I'm talking about the rule of Zoran Djindjic, who had the interest of Stambolic being killed, who wanted to make another political background there, he had the interest of determining Ulemek to be convicted of Stambolic's murder, or the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic, as someone later had an interest in condemning the same Ulemek for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and it was never legally proven legally that Zvezdan Jovanovic and Milorad Ulemek participated in the murder. And, so now from the D.A., use the prosecution investigation, we have spoken many times, but now Rodoljub Milovic himself has appeared in public with some of his information, so have a nice time, have fun with that Rodoljub Milovic. We will assist you, investigate the secret operations: "Cactus", "Shumadija" and "Macva" and in combination with the determination by, above all, the testimony of Rodoljub Milovic on the murder of Milet Lukovic and Dusan Spasojevic, you will get a precise picture of who is behind the assassination of Zoran Djindjic and who really killed him. We in the SRS, we insist on this age, not because we think about Zoran Djindjic, but because we think it's a state interest, and the state interest, and you have to take care of it. So, no matter who it is, it's something you need to investigate. Also in our Justice and Administration Committee, we have a letter from Ljubisha Buhe Chumeta, who says that 36 months did not get an answer because the letters he sent to the defender were open and that the letter that the defender delivered to him never came to him, but ended up in the case files, you simply, if it didn't come to you when I say you, of course I mean those judges who did. Do you, when you have, like, colorocularly, ticklish objects, can't wait to finish them, close them in a drawer? You can't do that, they're all people and all people and their human rights and procedural rights must be taken care of, you mustn't allow the tribunalisation of our judiciary which is well present. I have one more minute, I want both prosecutors and judges, to ask you nicely to break away from the influence of the executive authority. Your functions are permanent, executive power is transient. Take care of the law, make sure everyone under the law is the same, have the courage, don't keep the items in drawers. Feel free to remove every item, judge by law, and fear nothing. Do not be afraid that someone will tell you that you are a member of this party or that party, that they may threaten you to be proposed for resolution, etc. A man who does his job with honor should not be afraid of anyone. Judges and prosecutors are expected to protect the justice system. Don't be a source of fear, you must be the ones who are legal security, and not that because of you, legal security of citizens is being questioned. We're expecting proposals for the Presidents of the Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57433	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57434	Thank you. Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Vysk Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we are facing today a proposal with 34 candidates for the first time to propose judges to be elected for the judge's office, as well as 37 candidates elected for deputy public prosecutors. What I want to point out is that the procedure itself has been carried out in a transparent manner and as regards the fulfilment of all the conditions prescribed by law, but of course the SNS, given that one of the priorities of SNS is the rule of law and the availability of justice to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that it will respect both the principle of professionality and the principle of professionality and the principle of dignity in the day of voting. Ignorance of judges can also compensate for learning and work, education and continuous improvement, but when it comes to dignity, dignity and how important it is to us, it is something that the judge has or does not have. The question of dignity in the performance of both the judicial functions and in the performance of the deputy public prosecutor, and how significant they are and that is something that the SNS and how to respect. It is important for us that all those judges who are first elected to the judicial office, as well as the deputy public prosecutors, are tried exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and the law, because those decisions they make on behalf of the people. For us citizens, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how important and especially in this area. I have to look back briefly on the period since 2012. Why? Because everything that could have been destroyed in Serbia, primarily the economy, was destroyed during that period, but in a frightening way, the very important system of the Republic of Serbia, which is the system of justice, was destroyed. He's not just down, he's completely broken. In 2009, 1,100 judges and public prosecutors were left without their posts and only because they did not respond to the yellow, tycoon, looting business, painted today in the image of Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Obradovic, etc. Of course, the Constitutional Court returned all these judges and public prosecutors, but that also cost the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The failed reform of the country's judiciary and its citizens cost 17m euros. At that time, the Republic Public Defence, although its basic competence to defend the property and public property of the Republic of Serbia, had no impact on the privatisation and bankruptcy law, neither during the adoption of this law nor in the implementation of this law. In this way, not to worry, boastful, huge building land in this process with symbolic compensations or none, have gone into private hands, a yellow tycoon robbery company. We can't let that happen anymore. Thanks to the will of the people in 2012, when the SNS came to power, they were natural and otherwise destroying judicial institutions through the network of judicial institutions and thus again at the expense of citizens did not allow them to be easily available to justice. In 2013, while Nikola Selakovic was the minister, the court's network in the Republic of Serbia was corrected, the citizens' availability of justice became faster and more efficient. Of course, the National Strategy for Justice Reform has been adopted since 2013. - 2018, adopted and National Strategy in the fight against corruption. Why did the yellow tycoon company fit the collapsed judiciary? Only for the reason that with the collapsed judiciary the state could gnaw like a cancer and the state by 2012, corruption and crime had eaten away. We hope that by strengthening judicial institutions, and certainly selecting judges and prosecutors is one way of strengthening human resources, will lead to a faster and more effective judiciary. Of course, SNS's attitude is zero tolerance to corruption and crime. This was, of course, shown by the departments that were formed in senior public prosecutors and courts on 1 March 2018. Last year alone, there were about 500 convictions. Of course, the SNS advocates all being equal in front of the law. Among these judgments of corruption are some officials, but our view remains zero tolerance for corruption and crime and all equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57435	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, I don't know if you'll like what I want to say, and the public needs to know, and the public knows a lot of things. So no one is to blame for failing to resolve issues in the judiciary and judicial reform. Well, how could there be another blood no DOS. DOS brought in a justice minister who was less old than 30% of judges and prosecutors. How could the minister have reformed the judiciary? Absolutely not possible. At that time, 12,000 people were arrested illegally, but the state had to pay billions of dinars from the Republika Srpska budget to the detriment of taxpayers. What I'm trying to say is that Mladen Nenadic, the prosecutor for organised crime, also spoke for "Politics" over 15 years of the institution's establishment and said: "Serbia has narrowed it down in corruption, play by regulations and personal wealth. The monster has drawn amongst the leaders of large systems, the holders of judicial functions and representatives of state institutions." So says Mr. Nenadic, prosecutor for organised crime. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the story when the prince, and then King Nikola elected judges for a grand court in Montenegro, he chose from every one of our people who were decorated with a fairer, pure soul, courage and a sense of justice. They say, "The people of some nation came, and the book of the one who wanted him as judge, and they said, 'Congratulations, my lord, that your God is not afraid. People are not ashamed.'" The book, by understanding the message, doesn't choose that judge. This story should remind us of the fact that Serbia's judges today are elected as if office officials who only stamp and speak - come tomorrow, the hearing and the main search has been postponed. Do judges today be chosen by people who fear God and who are ashamed? As the choice of judges is passed on by the Constitution to the High Council of the Judiciary, this assembly as the summit of the People's Will and the authorities has no knowledge of the choice of judges. They are gone, because it would be supposed to interfere with the judicial authority in which everyone interferes, except for the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you thinking that this is the National Assembly, the highest legislative body, and the authority has been transferred to the Supreme Council of the Judiciary? Gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, when judges judge whether they will be brought on behalf of the people or brought on behalf of the High Council of the Judiciary? How is the choice of judges and prosecutors being made? Look at gender equality. Here, there is the distinguished State Council of Prosecutors - what is gender equality in the Second General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade? What did my colleague, Ms. Radeta, say, gentlemen, do you violate the Constitution? It's obvious he's breaking up. How is it possible, the judges were relieved, and you didn't come, gentlemen, in front of this tall house to propose candidates for the new presidents of the courts, about 114 of them in Serbia, and that was your duty? Now the question arises whether Serbia has court presidents or not? In this state, they're gone. If there are, then does it mean that someone has appointed the presidents of the courts as acting officers or not? Therefore, the Law on Judges is precise and it imposes and sets deadlines. I am now asking the representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, Mr. Jovicic, do we in Serbia have in these courts where the term of office has ceased or do we not have, do we have the officers of the President of the Court or do we not have, and if we have the perpetrators, who has appointed them and on the basis of which member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, and the President of the High Court of Belgrade, Mr. Aleksandar Stepanovic told "Politics" on 6 April2018 -- a number of judges are under the protection of the MUP. Well, should every third judge have security and BIA and public security? You don't have to. If in Sweden, the prime minister goes on a bicycle and takes a bus to the government, so is it possible that this country is so rich that it has to provide every third holder of justice? Why provide them? I ask the question how many such judges and prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia, how much is a particular driver and vehicle for that purpose, and how much is it? For the esteemed representative from the State Council of Prosecutors, the question – until when will we have a V.D. The state of the prosecution? Do we have in Serbia or not? We've got both the D.A.'s office and the state's attorney's office. What was the fashion of DS when the yellows invented a new one and introduced fashion to send from Belgrade to Tutin or send to Prepolje or send to Vrsac or send to Valjevo? Why send us from Belgrade to Valjevo? Why send representatives from Belgrade? Do you know what these costs are? We have a man you sent from Belgrade to Prepolje, and in a year and a half five and a half million, he's costing the Republic of Serbia's budget. How's it going? Look, of the 640 cases before the General Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, the 535 charges were dropped. Do you know how much budget costs were paid only in that one prosecutor's office? Ninety million dinars. So will someone pay for what they do wrong or what harms the state, the taxpayers and the budget of the Republic of Serbia? So take the gentlemen, send them there, those from Belgrade to other cities, they're tourists to me. I'm telling you the truth, tourists. They walk, they go from the bar to the bar, there's the diaries, there's the separate life, there's the duty, there's the car, there's the driver, there's the free other benefits. Therefore, I ask and suggest, you do not have to accept this, billions from the Republic of Serbia's budget go to the judiciary without purpose. Why is it necessary for Belgrade to go to Užice or Valjevo or Cacak, a public prosecutor? Why? Don't we have good lawyers in those places? We do. When you're talking about the deputy attorney generals, I'd remind you just to remind you that the Deputy Chief Prosecutor is possible, I won't name it, I've studied for 13 years. So what does it look like? And he's the deputy district attorney and he's making the D.A.'s decision. In my opinion, absolutely, gentlemen, something like that shouldn't happen. In addition, gentlemen of the Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, listen to this, you have 645 indictments, the identity of the indictment with a court ruling is of this 645, 565 identical. You know what these problems are? It means the D.A.'s attorneys are on trial, not the judges and the council. I think there are a lot of problems in the Serbian judiciary. You have some things to really fix. The people gave you confidence, but we cannot accept what the Venice Commission hohstapplers are forcing Serbia to adopt everything they say. Serbia is a modern state, Serbia that has legal subjectivity in Europe, which codified and harmonised its laws before EU accession began. Furthermore, when it comes to damage, taxpayers pay, please, how is it possible that in the bankruptcy mafia, this is what Mr. Aleksandar Stepanovic says, the President of the Supreme Court, that the costs for the bankruptcy mafia had to pay the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia in the amount of 280 million? Could he be a judge? He can't. Could he be the prosecutor? He can't. How can Slavko Curuvija be tried in front of the court, a total of 70 main searches, so who are these judges? Do these prosecutors have any evidence or no evidence? How can they even remember to accuse if you don't have any proof? And how can the court accept such an accusation? Secondly, when the law is broken, prosecutors are very mild, when it comes to disciplinary responsibility you, lady, as I recall, you or your colleague two years ago in Novi Sad, said on a round table that 700 and some of these disciplinary reports were filed in front of the State's chief prosecutor against, therefore, the legal officer from the prosecution. You said 14 were taken into procedure, so we were told by a representative of the State Council of Prosecutors. Well, what's the matter, he says seven's still in progress, and we don't know how else it's solved? I don't know, but I'm asking a question -- how many disciplinary charges have been filed against prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and the outcome of these reports? And secondly, is it possible for 700 applications to be filed and for no reason have the citizens submitted it? It's impossible. How is it possible that the deputy attorney general does not act after the court's decision in four cases, to put direct pressure on the Public Health Office during the art of changing the findings? A disciplinary report has been filed against this. But it seems to me that there is this old “roar crow’s eyes do not take out, ” and I would not like it to be with us and that is with you. I think that, in any case, judicial reform must be carried out. Nata Mesarevic, a colleague of the Verica Radeta, Nata Mesarevic had no right to participate in the proceedings, I don't have time to read you the law, she was judge of the district court, she was elected to the VSS, she was returned to the district court, but she had no right to judge the murder of Zoran Djindjic and the public prosecutor would have to raise a claim for the protection of legality for violations of the law in this case. I don't have time to read to you what I've prepared, but I think this deserves the attention that a republican public prosecutor is considering this, because the Constitution has been broken, the Law on Judges has been broken, and it's not possible for her to judge. She has to be held accountable. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you look at your judges having your convictions lifted by 50 or 60%, can that judge be you? Here's what this Mr. President of the Supreme Court has said is that he has a judge who had 78% of his cases abolished. Could he be a judge? He can't, of course. He can't. It is up to me, gentlemen, from the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors in which I have confidence, but I ask that these questions, these v. d. functions, and in one part of the judicial authorities should be reduced to the level that is within the Constitution and which is within the law. I'm just saying, there's not so much cost to the damages of the state and the taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57437	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57438	Thank you. Here, there were a few questions, I'm going to try to be brief, it's been working for a long time, one of the questions, that's what's pointed out on several occasions, that's something I'm not here for today, but I'm going to answer, that's the choice of the president of the courts. I must say that most of the presidents of the courts have expired their term of office and that those to whom the term of office has expired are now in the capacity of the court's president, and the decision on who will act as acting president of the court shall be made directly by the President of the Court of Justice. In time, we began the election procedure of the President of the Court, knowing that the term of office for a large number of presidents of the General and Special Jurisdiction stands out. I think the first ones were about May 23rd, and that's where we're about to finish the procedure. We've got the material ready. Believe it's a very long procedure, a very complicated procedure, where from the moment of the ad, reporting, checking applications, etc., we have an obligation to get these, by the very rules, work programme. This program of work is read. We have an obligation to have a conversation with the candidates for the presidents of the courts. After that, it's all done by a commission which is being educated by the VSS, and then we make one proposal. In this case, unfortunately, we have been struck by the season of vacations and we will do this procedure most likely sometime in the second half of August or at the very beginning of September. So it won't be that period of two or three years in function performer status, or earlier exactly that - the performer of the function. It was controversial, the choice, if I understood correctly, about gender equality, probably a large number of female judges. We are not able to change that for the simple reason that, believe me, 75% of the candidates who come to the interview are judges, or female colleagues, and believe me, 35, 36 candidates come to talk daily, because we are obliged to have a conversation with these candidates, about seven, eight to nine of the male race, they remain female. We're exactly 34, when you look at the proposal nine is men, that's the relationship, which just follows there, let's say, gender equality. Unfortunately, that's right, maybe not, but I have to tell you that co-workers are global and well-quality candidates, and you can't get around them, no matter what, not only are they more numerous than they are high-quality. As far as the election is concerned, there was also a question, from the Judicial Academy, here, you see, 34 candidates, only one colleague under a regular number 24 for the Kruševec Criminal Court is proposed with, let me say, the Judiciary Academy. You can't get around, believe me, you have a judicial academy of great colleagues and colleagues. It would be a sin and a shame for the whole system and society if we didn't trust such young people. Then there was also one question concerning the possible intention of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to cast out the average and length of study of individual candidates. When we choose Judges' Associates for Judges, we cannot use it as an additional criterion, to look at the average of the study year, or the average year, for the simple reason that it is a parameter that is important to trainees, and the law simply says so. The trainees, when they are received, have now some exams, at the Judicial Academy are organized, he, this exam carries 40 points, and the average and years of studying 60 points, and then, according to the number of occupied places and the number of designated or advertised places, trainees are received. It is true that there are candidates who study longer periods of time, but there are different fates. Now that I'm not talking, you have, so, someone who's had a family tragedy, you have someone who may have had a difficult material financial condition, you have someone, thank God, who married, raised two, three, four children, continued to study, he's a great candidate, you get a recommendation from the entire general court session from which he comes, the best grade, extremely successful, is extremely successful, that is, a recommendation and from the colleges of the General Court, you get an excellent grade there. We're simply checking on a test that consists of two parts, that's so-called. questions, the whole exam has a test and a task. The task is an analysis of the case to do the sentence of judgment, it's practical training, expertise is valued through these issues, and believe that these are candidates who get a tremendous number of points, or get all the dry fives. Among all these candidates here, there was only one candidate in one court who got five and four, but there are five. He had an "A" on his exam, and a "C" on assignment, because we didn't have another candidate, but he's got a simple sum of five. Believe me, these are all candidates who are highly professional, trained and who are worthy of simply being the bearers of the judicial office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57439	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57440	Mr. Jovicic, I would disagree with you. Give us the information whose sons and daughters are now in the academy and how many of you have on this list, do you have from both the prosecution and the judicial work, how many proposed candidates whose parents are already in the judiciary in office? Do you or don't you? You don't? Okay, we'll check that out. What's going on with this academy is an invention we don't need. Why do we need the Justice Academy? In that academy will come the sons and daughters of prosecutors and judges, you will see, and already we have such cases, I will not list, I will not list you now and in the prosecution what has been proposed by candidates for deputy public prosecutors whose parents are already in the prosecution, I will not do it for certain reasons. What you're saying is it's complicated to choose and propose new presidents of the court, don't, you're wrong, you're wrong. You knew they were running out of mandate. You had a year to prepare the candidates, to go out with a list to the National Assembly, and then there would be no vacuum, and no one has the right to appoint a court president. The constitution says the president of the court is the president of the court, but he does not say - acting as president of the court. That can't be. To all those to whom the term of office has expired, they can't even be acting presidents, and you answer, you have to answer why you haven't started the election procedure in time for new presidents. And you have to limit the time as the Judges Act has prescribed. Don't mind me, but I have to tell you that you've wasted your time and it's no problem for you between 3,000 judges, so you know how many English judges there are, seven times bigger, and there are 1800 judges, and we have 3,000 judges, others say -- we have a shortage of judges. Who says we have a lack of judge? Let's take a parallel right to see and in parallel with other countries, you'll see that we have a lot of prosecutors, a lot of judges in this issue, even a surplus.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57441	Comrade Radeta, tell me on what grounds, so I can know about the weather? (Miss Radeta: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57442	Very short. First of all, as far as this Judicial Academy is concerned, we keep telling the SRS that we didn't need something like that, it's some innovation that really discriminates against young lawyers. We have no doubt that there are, as you say, beautiful children who are expected to be experts, etc. It is not controversial, but there are certainly such wonderful children as well as trainees with lawyers and employees in courts and in companies etc. We just don't like the fact that there's some special, let's just say, base they're picking up on. It's something that's unacceptable to us. What you said, you tried to say so painfully what could be the reason for someone to study for a long time. Of course, it can all be, but you know it, and we know that it's mostly not the case, that it's mostly about people who were lazy, so they studied longer, and we still don't know what average they finished college with, and then don't take them for your colleagues. We want our judiciary to really be on the level, above all, on the constitutional level. That's why I asked you not to succumb to any influence. And it's up to you to maintain the reputation of profession and science. We expect you to do this and whenever we know of any judge that is right, and that there is a problem, that someone is persecuting him, also applies to prosecutors, of course, that someone from the authorities is threatening him, especially in the smaller environments, we know that there are some local law enforcement officers behaving arrogantly, etc., believe that the SRS will always stand behind such a judge that we know that it works in accordance with the law and that in this way we have its integrity, personal, but to safeguard the integrity of the judiciary as a special branch of power, which, you will admit, is a lot more than we do at a low level, not because we have bad judges and prosecutors, we have such as, but in a small number, it's much more than you know, and we know, we are in contact with people, there are a lot more people who are waiting for some better times when we are able to be independent and one and one and one and the other, and the other, and the other, and say that the new ones that the subject is going to go to be, etc. What's going on in that part is not good. But, I repeat, you must do legitimate work to fight for the reputation of your profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57443	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57444	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, gentlemen of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing for all the candidates who are registered to meet the prescribed conditions for selecting deputy public prosecutors and judges who are first elected to conduct the procedure of determining both the expertise, the skills and dignity. However, it has been found that these are very good proposals and I, as well as my fellow SNS MPs, will vote for these candidates. Dear People's MPs, a former regime decorated in the DS and its other aggregate derivatives, i.e. in the aggregate state, they did not take care of the expertise, even less of the skills, and at least of the dignity of the candidates during their regime. If they were, they would not have chosen Sonja Brkic as judge, who was also president of RIK, although it should not have been under the law, so she illegally damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget for about three million dinars and, behold, never returned them. How serious the regime was is saying that during their regime they chose dead Judge Ljubiš Ristic from Požega to be a judge, although VSS President Nata Mesarovic said, I quote - that she spoke to every candidate judge and determined and spent 240 hours talking. It's a finished quote. I just don't know how she could talk to a dead judge. So much for the seriousness and choice of judges during the party of the former regime. So, something that's not known in the history of the judiciary during the party of the former regime happened. They had an assistant justice minister who didn't finish law school. It is important to have a bow, purse, tie, coffee shop, and so inherited by the Ministry of Justice Mr. Nikola Selakovic. The arrival of Nikola Selakovic improves something for the better and repairs itself and now during Minister Nela Kuburovic. Dear People's MPs, it will take a long time for the situation in the judiciary to be improved. There are acts of irresponsible judges today. I won't talk about it. This was particularly well spoken of by Mr. Marijan Risticevic, in detail about Judge Majic. The judiciary must change faster as well as we as MPs and every citizen, especially the judiciary, as an integral element of the process of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Ana Brnabic, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by our esteemed President Aleksandar Vucic. What do you say, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about our political opponents, who are not here today against us? No wonder, because even before that. leaving the congregation very rarely came to this high home. To them, this high house was a passing station. Let me say a few sentences about them, one sentence at a time. Their own nickname will say and the citizens will recognize who these people are. Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, speaks all about him. Vuk Jeremic, one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, and what happened yesterday, I have no words. Janko Veseninovic, in a people called Janko Stanocrat, stole the apartment of Milici Bajji from Obrovec on the 9th Street of Brace Kurjakovic. Bosko Obradović, so-called Head of the Alliance for Serbia, in a nation called a bully. A few sentences about him. He raided the RIK and attacked members of the RIK. I made an incursion into the municipality of the Cave. He carried out the attack on Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic at the board's administrative session. He broke into the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic. He raided a police station in Guca. He carried out an attack on a journalist named Pinka. Try to break into REM. He requested the shooting of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and an attempt to break into the presidency of the Republic of Serbia. What's the D.A.'s office doing? Asked the Army to carry out a coup. I made an incursion into the RTS saw and not speak any further. Dusan Petrovic, known as the Dule Kravokiller people, while serving as agriculture minister, gave to slaughter 250,000 cows from the 500,000 total, as many as Serbia's state had. Marinika Tepic, a dove of flyers, lies in one party at night, and wakes up in the other party in the morning. Milojko Pantic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, called the crazy one, that moral gromada, a dead drunk driving a car and caused an accident on Brank's bridge, fled and drove in the opposite direction. Arrested, of course, and taken to a police station to wash out, and for that he accused you know who? Who would it be, rather than the president of the state of Alexander Vukic. I was right at a session of the Assembly in this high house when I said that the people really called him a lunatic and that it was a drink. If he was one piece of shit, he also proved it on Brank's bridge. Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pishoi, said without shame and shame that, I quote, he would pee on Alexander Vukic's grave, finished a quote. I'm not gonna say anything about him and say anything wrong. I will only quote his colleague Biljana Srbanovic. I quote: “Unwashed, lying Sergei. That's your leader, always a sneaky liar. He always licked me, was a gold medal in getting his ass up. He always lied, always smelled, always grabbed for money, a meal, a drink, never washed, always cheated on his colleagues," finished quote, January 20, 2019. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what about these who wander the streets of Belgrade and other cities? Let me only conclude by quoting the distinguished actor Nikola Kojo, who said, as one of the leaders, the leader of the Alliance for Serbia, on 4 February 2019, I quote: "If the protests fail, I am leaving this country," the quote concluded. Dear actor Nikola Kojo said on 10 May 2019, I quote: "People slowly realize that the protest from the beginning of the end was led by the censors, with the help of various half-worlds, semi-innovators and works of students who trusted them," the quote concluded. I pray to the esteemed Nikola Koi, as one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, to keep his promise, because he, as you can see, has confessed, as he has, that the protests have failed. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I won't say anything really about our political opponents, but they rarely came to this high house. Only those who don't like to do it can do it. It was one group of non-workers, freelenders, secikes, luftiguza and windmills. The people blew them off the political scene, because they destroyed our past, destroyed our future, and if they had stayed only a year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Now, that's what you, respected citizens of Serbia, did not let them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-08-1.u57445	I thank my colleague Atlagic. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
