ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 115 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 136 MPs present in the hall and that the conditions of the start of work. The People's Messenger, Miladin Ševarlic, informed us that he was prevented from attending today's session. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time provided for in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for law in the agenda as soon as possible. You have been presented the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2018, the First, the Second and Third Sessions of the First Regular Session in 2019 and the sittings of the 11th Extraordinary Session in the 11th Assembly and the 20th Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I vote on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Session last year, held on 27, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 December. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I put to the vote the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session held in the 11th session, held on 11th, 13th and 14th February 2019. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I put to the vote the minutes of the first session of the first regular session in 2019, held on 5, 6, 12, 13 and 14 March. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I put to the vote The minutes of the second session of the first regular session in 2019, held on 20, 21 and 26 March. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I put to the vote The minutes of the third session of the first regular session in 2019, held on 27, 28, 29 March and 2 and 3 April. I am concluding the vote: for - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th Special Session in the 11th Assembly, held on 28 March 2019. Finalising vote: for – 141 MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, called at the request of 159 MPs, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 15th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following was set out: Dn n e d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Specific Conditions for the Implementation of the Project of Apartments for Security Forces, Proposal for a Law to Confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing point for international road traffic of Presevo (Republic of Serbia) – Tabanovci (Republic of Northern Macedonia), Proposal for a decision on the termination of the duties of the Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data, Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of a project for the construction of apartments for members of security forces and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of common controls at the border crossing point for the international road transport of Presevo (Republic of Serbia) – Tabanovci (Republic of Northern Macedonia), and a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of the Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Protection of Personal Data on Personality and a proposal for a decision to elect the Commissioner for Information from Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 141, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this draft agenda. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings are invited to attend: Minister of Justice, Nela Kuburovic and her co-workers at the ministry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Nela Kuburovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58978	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the principle debate, I would like to present to you the most important solutions that contain the bill on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security. We are aware of the facts and importance and of the central location that is taking place in the executive procedure, which, although at the end of the process of realising subjective civil law, is its most significant phase. The lack of efficiency of the executive procedure is firstly devising all the previously conducted procedures, but only the existence of executive and credible documents which are not the result of the co-operation process endangers certainty in the settlement of monetary and non-money claims. In the broadest sense, this leads to the undermining of pillars of a regulated legal system, the rule of law and legal certainty in the process of protecting subjective civil rights and obligations. In view of its predecessor, the Implementing and Security Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2016, went a step further in terms of increasing the efficiency of enforcement and security procedures, as well as further regulation of all relevant issues relating to the appointment, operation, accountability of public enforcement authorities, as well as the exercise of supervision of their work. Following the entry into force of the applicable law, the Justice Ministry adopted a series of sublegal acts and developed systems that contribute greatly to facilitating work with increased efficiency, public enforcement, but also to the exercise of supervision of their work. The importance of this law and the application of its provisions in practice also shows the fact that the procedure to be followed by the World Bank in relation to the list, the conditions of business "Ding Business", formed by the organisation. In this respect, they shall be specifically monitored in the context of the performance of the contract covering both the litigation and enforcement procedures and the execution procedures from both the whole process and the individual phases, as well as the cost aspect. According to the latest report, the Republic of Serbia takes 65 seats in this area with the average duration of the 110-day executive procedure itself, thus being one of the basic objectives of these changes and complementing the improvement of the position of the Republic of Serbia in the part of the execution of a contract measured by the World Bank, but at the same time a significant reduction in the duration and cost of the enforcement process. The Ministry of Justice, following the application of the rules in this area, which is normally regulated by, above all, overseeing the implementation of the enforcement and security procedure, has seen certain shortcomings affecting the effective conduct of the proceedings, which are seen through the unequal practice of public enforcement officers acting in a broader sense in the area of the Court of Appeal to which they belong. The unequal practice of the courts has caused the unequal conduct of perpetrators throughout Serbia. On the other hand, the ministry was addressed in a concession way, primarily by the Chamber of Public Executives, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and then by the State's Attorney General, pointing out the problems they face by providing individual solutions to their overcoming. When forming a working group dealing with the amendments and additions of this law, the Ministry of Justice made particular note that representatives of all institutions relevant for the implementation of this law were found in the working group, therefore, all those involved in a process of enforcement and security. Therefore, among the members of the working group, there were, among other things, representatives of all courts of general and special jurisdiction, representatives of the lawyerry, NBS, the State's Attorney's Office. Taking into account that practice in public enforcement has proved to be unequal in the areas of appeals courts, the Ministry of Justice also included representatives of public enforcement in the area of all four appeals. The multiplicity of the task force was conditioned by the need for all proposals for amendments and additions to the law to be seen from every possible angle, analytically, in order to find the best possible solution to a particular problem. The task force also followed the Anti-Corruption Council. Since the beginning of the working group, a number of disputed provisions have appeared to be considered through protection, both by creditors and debtors, to bring the most acceptable solution, which increases the efficiency of the enforcement process and further protects and makes the legal system of the Republic of Serbia stronger, which the working group has done through the review of absolutely all proposals for amendments and additions to the laws submitted by both members of the working group and all other interested, both legal, and natural persons. First of all, the diversity of court interpretations and opinions on changing certain norms should be noted, and if it is certainly significant at the academic level, it makes it extremely difficult for public executioners to work. The next course of court proceedings, in whose territory they are appointed, public executioners act extremely unequally on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, resulting in a completely unequal position of parties in the same procedural situations, which is not a consequence that can be acceptable to the Serbian judicial system. This problem is presented as the primary. By amending and supplementing the law, the Ministry of Justice sought to fully remove this problem and create conditions for the uniform treatment of all public perpetrators in Serbia, in order to ensure legal predictability in the executive matter. Furthermore, the things that are given attention precisely because of the numerous comments of the expert public concern the competence to carry out enforcement, as well as the prejudice of the law, especially in the work that regulates legal medicines. It appears that, despite the fact that the profession of public enforcement officials was introduced by the previous Law on Enforcement and Security, adopted in 2011, even in the current law, there are not fully disputed provisions governing situations in which a court, or public enforcement authorities, are authorised to carry out enforcement. Furthermore, in order to create conditions for easier application of the law for all participants in the procedure, it has been decided to reduce the number of rules governing the issue of legal medicinal products, and taking into account the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, as a systemic procedural law on civil matter, which contains rules which can be applied accordingly in this regard, in particular when regard to the legal consequences of unfavourable non-performing assets in the executive law procedure. When it comes to anti-corruption measures, the need to intervene more significantly in this part is recognised in the text of the law itself. The rule of who cannot be a customer in the enforcement process is strengthened by the fact that public executioners, their deputies, assistants, as well as other public enforcement employees are completely excluded from this possibility whether they are acting in a specific case or not. An analysis of the application of the law also identified a large number of individual actions aimed at the obvious additional financial income. In fact, a lot of situations have been observed in which so-called. the split requires that, on the basis of the same legal basis for the conduct of the executive procedure, several proposals for enforcement which actually divides the basic requirement on several minor requirements are directly affecting both the increase in the number of cases before courts and the reduction of efficiency in enforcement. In this respect, solutions have been proposed to protect the person of the executive debtor through the ban on the collection of expenses on all subject-matter and the recognition of the right to the costs of the trustee only in one case that arises from one legal basis. In addition, the bill will prevent significant costs in so-called the budgetary matters in which the debtor is designated as the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, i.e. direct or indirect budgetary users, taking into account that, prior to the proposal for enforcement, the Executive Trustee is required to notify the Ministry of Finance in writing of the intention of submitting the application for implementation by means of a written notice at least 30 days prior to the submission of the proposal for enforcement, enabling the possibility of voluntary settlement. The reduction in costs in these cases will also be seen in the reduction of public enforcement fees through changes in public enforcement tariffs and impact analysis shows that these changes will result in a 50% reduction in costs, which is more than three billion dinars in 2018. One of the most important and most sensitive issues is certainly a matter of proportion related on the one hand to the level of debt of the executive debtor and on the other hand, the value of the asset of the executive debtor representing the subject of execution. The principle of proportions, although prescribed by the applicable law, is a general rule without special interpretation through the very text of the law. The provision of Article 56 of the applicable law laying down the duties of the public enforcement officer in the selection of the means and subject-matter for the purpose of settlement of the monetary claim shall take into account the ratio between the amount of the executive debt and the assets and the value of the subject-matter of the execution is a rule requiring more detailed arrangements both in the general part of the law and through certain of the most important means and objects of enforcement. In this respect, the rules which aim to specify the principle of proportion such as the provision that, when selecting between multiple means and the subject-matter of execution, the public executioner shall, by official duty, take into account whether the execution is carried out by that means and on that subject which are at least unfavourable for the executive debtor, but also the provision that the public executioner, acting under official duty or on a proposal by the party, will, in conclusion, change the already specified means and subject to enforcement if there is an obvious disproportionate between a specific asset and the subject of enforcement and the height of the request of the Executive Trustee. This principle is also elaborated in respect of the executions carried out by means and on certain executions, and the implementation of the immovable property provides that, after the entry of the enforcement note, the public enforcement officer, under official duty or on a proposal by the party, the enforcement shall be carried out on other immovable property or other means and subject to enforcement, if there is an obvious disproportionate between the level of demand for the executive trustee and the value of the immovableity proposed by the executive trustee in the proposal for enforcement, and other immovableity, i.e. other means and the subject of enforcement, are sufficient to settle the request of the executive trustee within a reasonable period. Finally, one of the most important solutions concerns the ban on the execution of the sale of the sole fixed property owned by an executive debtor, a natural person, in order to settle claims of municipal or related activity, whose principal does not exceed the amount of 5,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, at the middle course of the NBS, on the date of submission of the proposal for enforcement. Speaking of restrictions on enforcement, taking into account the protection of economically weaker layers of the population and strengthening the social component of the law, changes have been made to the protected amount of specific claims of executive debtors. Namely, when it comes to wages or earnings, or wages or profits, execution will be possible to carry out in the future until their half, instead of two thirds. In the case of two or more thirds of each of them, the amount of which is equal to or less than the minimum profit established shall be determined in accordance with the law. The execution on earnings or wages, earnings fees, or remuneration fees, which do not exceed the average net profit amount, according to the latest published information of the Republic's statistical authority, may be carried out up to a third of them, while the execution of the minimum earnings shall be carried out up to a quarter. The amendments also apply to pensions, so pensions can be carried out up to a third of it, instead of two-thirds, or a quarter when it comes to pensions that do not exceed the average pension amount according to the last published data of the Pension-Inhabitation Fund, i.e. tens when it comes to pensions whose height does not exceed the minimum amount of pension. The exemption exists only with regard to the payment of legal support and up to one half of all those incomes. Another newspaper, which is an integral part of the bill's proposal, aimed at reducing the number of enforcement procedures, refers to the possibility of voluntary dying of monetary claims before the executive procedure is even launched. The proposed solution opens up the possibility for the executive trustee to submit such a request to the public executioner, which further informs the executive debtor and gives him the appearance of the consequences of the executive procedure, as well as the convenience of the voluntary settlement of the financial claim, affecting it in the direction of voluntary settlement of the claim, i.e. reaching an agreement on how to settle the debt with the trustee. The change of tariff will certainly follow this procedure, i.e. compensation for this procedure should stimulate the executive debtor to accept this way of fulfilling the obligation. The bill also contains solutions that reflect the efforts of the Republic of Serbia to digitise the process and thus make it easier and accessible to all citizens, as well as to ensure full objectification in the implementation of the enforcement process. In this regard, I would like to mention the two newspapers contained in the Bill of Law whose use will no doubt contribute to increasing efficiency and regularity in the executive procedure. The analysis of the application of the provisions of the applicable law in practice found that the public auction as a central stage of sales of immovable property is the weakest link, and so far the government has been inadmissible in the existence of a very narrow circle of legal, or natural persons, who figure as real estate buyers, which are sold at a public auction in executive proceedings throughout the country. The view is that only the development of an electronic platform, as the only address for the public bidding of all potential stakeholders with applicable safeguards, prevents abuses. In EU Member States, such a solution is not a newspaper and dematerialisation but takes over a good part of the process and case of other means of execution, such as the transfer of funds from an account, which the executive debtor has with the bank, i.e. the savings role or current account. What is most important, the name and last name, or the name of the legal person as a participant, are not visible to each other and each of the participants has a mark without the identification information being provided. The system automatically records the bidding flow and such a record is kept permanently. On the other hand, any interested person can get acquainted with all the chronologically published sales of immobilities or moving things, according to different search criteria depending on a specific need, so for example, possible search by type of immovableity, special part of the facility or search of a residential business facility in general. The data will contain areas of objects, photographs, legal basic acquisitions, possibly even video recordings. In this way, through the protection of the identities of public sales participants, conditions will be created to achieve the maximum possible selling price, which will certainly correspond to both the executive trustee and the executive debtor in a concrete procedure. The court's announcement board will replace the electronic advertising board in the future. The reason for this change is the practical nature, given that the parties will be much simpler and more accessible to be informed via an electronic advertising table. Advertising board everywhere is often an under-transparent place through which delivery of the executive procedure is carried out, it is often difficult to see or find what makes this legal change very necessary. The electronic advertising board will be set up as a centralized application available at one web address, which will publish all acts of all courts and public executioners in one place. Data search will be possible in one place for all courts and public executioners, but of course individually using certain filters. Therefore, the proposed solution allows all courts to have a unique advertising board in the future, and citizens have the opportunity to obtain information through e-mail or SMS in future, in situations where a document relating to them is pointed out on the advertising board. In order to reduce the number of cases to be filed under appeal, the draft law also introduces provisions which regulate a shortened procedure that can be carried out if the executive trustee, the executive debtor of the resolution entities, whose disputes are in accordance with the law, are indeed in charge of the Commercial Court. It is proposed that this procedure be carried out on the basis of qualified, credible documents, or waiting for a domestic or foreign person, with a protest if necessary to establish a claim on the basis of an unconditional bank guarantee, unconditional accreditation and a certified statement by an executive debtor authorising the bank to transfer cash from its account to the account of the Executive Trustee. The provisions of the applicable law prescribed the duties of executive creditors, in whose favour and before the start of the work of public enforcement in the Republic of Serbia, a solution was reached on the basis of an executive or credible document or a security solution, which still led the enforcement procedure or the security procedure on 1 May 2016, so as to make it clear by 1 July 2016 whether they were willing to execute a court or a public enforcer under the threat of suspending the proceedings in the event of a non-determination. Following that provision, more than a million cases were settled in courts, but a number of creditors were still identified as executing the court and such cases currently have 631,488 in line with the Court's annual report for 2018, which was published by the Supreme Court of Cassation. It's about objects that are mostly more than 10 years old. Such cases are either either not handled or very rarely and slowed down the procedure and there is a legitimate concern that the Republic of Serbia will compensate for the damage to the parties due to violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In the light of all the reasons set out above, the draft law provides that enforcement procedures in which the execution or security is to be carried out by the court and for whose enforcement under the provisions of the Bill is exclusively the jurisdiction of the public enforcement authority, will continue before the public perpetrators. In that case, the public executioner shall be determined by the President of the Court by providing the decision to execute the files of the case to a public enforcer whose head office is located in the area of the court which has reached the decision to execute, and where several public enforcement officers are established in the field of that court, the decision to execute and the case files shall be delivered in a uniform manner, in accordance with the order in which the public perpetrators are entered in the register of public perpetrators and their deputies. In this case, the Executive Trustee will be obliged to pay 25% of the advances made to the publicly executed tariff, under the threat of suspending the procedure, unless the payment is made within eight days of the date of delivery of the advance decision. As regards enforcement procedures for the settlement of claims from municipal and related activities, as well as procedures for the settlement or security of claims by the Executive Trustee of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government, public undertaking or other legal person whose founder or owner of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or units of local self-government, whose execution has been carried out by a court in accordance with the provisions of Article 547 of the applicable law, in which the implementation of the law has not been initiated until the date of entry into force of this law, or in which such proceedings have been carried out for more than six months, such proceedings will be suspended at the date of entry into force of this law, if the principal of the claim that is being settled or provided does not exceed the amount of 2,000 dinars. The same applies to enforcement proceedings in the account of the executive debtor, which is in effect on the day of entry into force of this law, in a blockade of more than three years. Such proceedings will be suspended if the executive trustee does not propose to change the means and the subject matter of enforcement within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law. The proposed solution should contribute to a significant reduction in old cases in courts, which will undoubtedly affect both the work of courts and the ranking of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's list in the conditions of business "Doing Business". These are, in short, the most important solutions that the bill contains. I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that during the debate in principle and detail, the MPs, or the National Assembly, will adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in Implementation and Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58979	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58980	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government at its session, held about an hour ago, unanimously accepted the amendment and addition of the Law on Implementation and Security proposed by the Government in principle, and proposed that the National Assembly accept it in the voting day as it was given. This is for the reason that we have assessed that this amendment and supplementation of the Law on Implementation and Security is the fruit of one studio work, professional work and that this is the result and remarks which are in practice, the application of this earlier law, given to the Ministry, and also in the public we have seen a lot of objections in the press, etc., to the work of certain public executioners, so this proposal is the result of all of this amending and supplementing this law that is before you today. Madam President, if you'll allow me to say some other things in a few sentences, just for the sake of the Single Serbia Group MP, so that he doesn't come back for a word afterwards. The JS parliamentary group will support the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Implementation and Security in the day of voting, for the reasons we believe that this law will improve the work of both public enforcement officers, but on the other hand it will also enable executive debtors and executive creditors to carry out their obligations more easily, i.e. to exercise their rights when it comes to executive creditors. These amendments and additions to the law, as I have already said, have come into contact with many of the objections heard in the earlier period of time when the existing Law on Enforcement and Security was applied, because in practice there have been frequent violations of certain provisions of law and ethnic norms and so on, but on the other hand it should be said that the Chamber of Conductors, as a body that oversees the work of its members, and also the Ministry of Justice, have indicated and taken certain measures against those public enforcement authorities who did not literally adhere to the existing Law on Implementation and Security, as well as the result of all this is what we have today, these amendments and additions of the Law on Implementation and Security. These changes, as the minister said in her opening statement, aim to improve the position of executive debtors on one side, but also to improve the position of executive creditors. When I say so, I mean primarily the principle of proportions that these amendments and additions of this law are proposed today, so that the executive debtors will not be in a position to sell for some, let me say, minimum obligations to property that are multiple or some other mobile thing, whose value is multiplely greater than their obligation from an earlier period of time. So the ministry recognized this problem, which in practice appeared, and we had cases that there were also abuses by certain public enforcement officers in applying the existing law, for these or those reasons, it's not my decision to make and to say whether the objections were always right or not, executive debtors to the work of public executioners, but I would now use one sentence from my Jagodina, which we often say, that every grain has a weed, and also among the public executioners there are those, unfortunately, who do not always fully comply with the legal provisions, but for some of them known reasons they want to go out to someone and sell someone's real estate or movable property value for a commitment that is multiplely less than what is sold. I think that this law will get in the way and that no more public perpetrators, or individuals, should put all public enforcement officers on a pillar of shame because individuals have performed, I say, ethical norms and legal norms in the application of certain enforcement procedures. On the other hand, as the minister said in the bill, that is, when it comes to setting up a ban on payment of salaries for commitments, there are those restrictions when it comes to pay, whether a third, if it is a minimum wage, that it is one quarter, etc. Also, it should be said here and the minister mentioned it, we are very often a country taken for example that we have a large number of executions in our courts and that this and various commissions have been making remarks, that these executions are not resolved quickly enough. I don't want to talk about numbers right now, but I think there's a couple hundred thousand, if not millions of these executions are based on various grounds and by various courts, both general and special jurisdiction. I think we will also be positive about these changes by the time we adopt them by the Security and Implementation Act, in many ways, and we will get one plus with the European Commissions following the application of the rules in the Republic of Serbia and on its way to EU accession. It is also commendable to recognise the problem of the collection of the commitments made when it comes to municipal services, both those companies and institutions, both the republican, the province, and the local importance, i.e. the founders of the Republic, provinces or units of local self-government, that it is limited that, if it is not completed in a certain period of time, work on execution to an amount of two thousand dinars, it will simply be deleted as the obligation of a debtor. It is also very well solved, i.e. the proposed solution, so-called Voluntary implementation of the executive commitments undertaken, so-called A voluntary execution and that this way will, however, be avoided in many ways, some misunderstandings that always exist between the creditors, who seek what belongs to him, and the executive debtor who has an obligation to fulfill it. In the end, this electronic notification is a major step forward in the Republic of Serbia, making it a big step in the so-called Republic of Serbia. electronic notification where all those interested in one way or another will be able to have insight into the obligations, which are executive debtors, who are executive creditors, and will be able to see simply and when it comes to legal and physical persons, with whom in their business relationships they are dealing with, whether or not they fulfil their obligations, whether there are needs for certain executions or not, etc. All in all, once again, let me say that in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support the draft law on enforcement and security in principle and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58981	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. Now the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58982	I thank you, Chairman. I must begin by congratulating you, the honourable minister with fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Group, on an extraordinary speech that you gave in the UN, which is, in a legal sense, a speech that implies the defence of our interests and interests of the Republic of Serbia, that is, our country, and indeed all congratulations, primarily because of the expressed patriotism and the very argumentative speech. Considering that I'm a little off topic, but rightly so, I'll be back on the subject. I must say immediately that the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. Dear Minister, the personal opinion is that the bill has made a qualitative shift, compared to the changes made to the law on enforcement and security so far. It's clear to us that since the volume of changes and additions is below 50%, you couldn't go in the direction of passing a new law on enforcement and security, which is why we have changes in this volume that isn't small at all, but it's essentially very important. On the other hand, we finally have quality solutions that relate to all the problems that have now been removed, and have existed in previous laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, because to be perfectly honest, we are already in a very long period of time searching for good and quality solutions, when it comes to the executive procedure. What should be commended in the beginning is the extended jurisdiction of public enforcement authorities, on the one hand, and on the other hand the degree of control and supervision of public enforcement. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I have to say something that is very important. We must not slave for prejudice when it comes to public perpetrators and their conduct in accordance with the provisions of the law on enforcement and security. Why prejudice? Well, because mostly the perpetrators who carry out nothing but a court ruling are being anathemised, and we need to be aware that the perpetrator is not doing anything else, except for the execution of either a condemnator part of the court ruling or something that is once again related to the executive title relating to the executive debtor, when it comes to enforcement. So, if the verdict requires a certain Mark Markovic to carry out an act, to move out of his apartment, it is not the will and desire of a public executioner, it is an imperative standard for a public executioner, or an obligation for the executioner to implement that judicial decision. Why? Well, because it achieves legal certainty for the citizens of Serbia and thus safeguards the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. What is important, it is important to point out that you have found good solutions, on behalf of the Serbian Bar Association, I will commend one of these good solutions, which is that the lawyer can receive the costs on his own account, of course, with the power of attorney who has been duly confirmed, or certified by a public notary. When I was talking about extending the jurisdiction of public executioners, I need to draw attention that there have finally been these previous changes compared to these changes many things have been done. I will appeal from court practice to one example, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can recognise all the problems that existed, where public perpetrators really violated or abused procedural powers. And this is the case -- if the court ruling is bound by a certain physical person, let's call it Marko Markovic again, to hand over the movable things that were the subject of the case, and that judgment becomes legal, meaning, and the executive order, the procedure is being initiated and, unfortunately, these things are stolen and are the subject of a criminal offence and there is no, then the public perpetrator, of course, according to the law, has ordered the executive debtor that instead of moving things that do not exist and cannot be handed over the value of these things. And that wouldn't be controversial. It wouldn't be questionable to say – well, this computer was stolen, you now have to pay the value of that computer. But what was the issue? It was disputed that at that time, the public executioner was completely discreet, without any special authority, rather than taking into account that these movable things which were the subject of execution or the means of execution had their own degree of depreciation, that they were used, used. He took from certain sellers the market value of immovableity and owed the executive debtor incomparably more, in an incomparably higher amount than it was logical and natural, which means that he pays the real, or real value of movable things. There was a problem when it came to public executioners, because their powers at the time were insufficiently defined, even inexplicably defined and the public executioner could in some way even do damage to the executive debtor, because instead of the value of things worth, let's say, 500 dinars was burdened by the executive debtor to pay 5,000 dinars. So now we have one, let me say, a far better way to edit and work the executioner and their control. Of course, we in the SPS parliamentary group insist that supervision of the work of public executioners be carried out exactly as any abuse of public enforcement, any failure of it, any error in its work and, of course, in a disciplinary procedure conducted within the public-executive chamber. Now, what I'd like to point out, and we've put in front of the parliamentary group a number of amendments, a few amendments to the text of the law itself, that's some of our remarks or better to say well-intentioned suggestions where eventually the law could be further improved, so I'm going to start from the very beginning, but let's say from Article 85. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement relating to Article 180 of the existing law. The Honorable Minister with his associates, and how well you know that it is proposed to make a decision in the form of a conclusion when it comes to allocating and handing over real estate. Now, our opinion is that a decision in the form of a conclusion is not a good solution and that should be in the form of a solution, not a conclusion. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about it, so I'd like to ask you just a little attention to one fact that I think is very important. The moment he's handing over to the real estate buyer is the last moment when something can be done. So my house is the subject of execution and there are two decisions in the process, one is, of course, after the exemption of my immovableity, to carry out the assignment, and the final decision is surrender. Both of these decisions are made in the form of a conclusion. There is no legal remedy, no objection, no complaint. We believe that these decisions should be taken in the form of a solution and that an objection may be made against that solution to the transfer of immovableity, in which the situation should not have to be declared against the award solution. And there is another solution or better variant, and that is to assign the immovableity in the form of a solution against which an objection would be allowed, and then handing over the immovableity to the trustee who asks in this procedure to settle his claim, to be given the possibility of making a complaint as a legal remedy. So in this direction, I think it would be a good idea to think a little too much about protecting the rights of citizens who have constitutional right to a legal remedy, to define in this direction the existence of a legal remedy. The second remark concerns Article 8 which is regarding Article 24 of the existing Law on Enforcement and Security, where legal remedies are defined and where you have said that the objection can be declared against the decision of the first-degree court and of the public enforcement officer only when it is attributed to the law or objection to the inadmissibility of the execution of a third party. Now, there's one problem here that I hope you'll accept as such and we'll solve it together. The objection to the inadmissibility of a third party's solution, as a third party's objection, is not a legal remedy, it is a legal remedy. The legal remedy is a complaint, a legal remedy is an objection, but not a third party's objection. Therefore, against the solutions contained in this Article 24 should only stand against the objection of a third party because the third party is a means, not a legal remedy, so I ask that only the third party's objection be considered to be deleted, because I think it is absolutely too high in this standard that is well standardized, i.e. whose text can be accepted as a quality system solution. The next remark, which I want to point out to you, is in article 67. It's an amendment proposal, and it's about a member of the 149th existing law. I ask you to reconsider, only because of the citizens of Serbia who have the right to an effective remedy, and certainly the most effective remedy is appeal or objection. Therefore, the existence of a legal remedy, in Article 149(2), defines that an appeal is granted against the solutions set out in Article 1 of the same Article. Why am I saying this? There's a request here to remove irregularities. We in practice and how well we know that the request to remove irregularities did not have any effect or had a small effect. There was no legal remedy, absolutely no legal remedy. If the request for the removal of irregularities in the work of the perpetrators, since the perpetrator may be wrong and fellow MPs have repeatedly indicated that the public enforcement officer can abuse his powers, harm the executive debtor, and even the executive trustee, that sometimes he acts maliciously and that there is a possibility of saying – listen to him incorrectly, I use the request to remove irregularities. If that request for the removal of irregularities is adopted and accepted as the basis, it is not disputed to sanction the work of the public executioner, but whether that solution which accepts the objection is to be reconsidered, i.e. the request for the removal of irregularities remains undefined, because it is necessary to verify in the second instance that I, as a judge, have made the right decision by accepting the objection of that party which the perpetrator has said is working incorrectly. Why? Well, maybe there's a problem that's objective nature that he hasn't committed abuse. So that he was working exactly according to standards, that he was doing the right thing. So the second degree of decision must evaluate the work of the first-degree judge. Why? Because even a first-degree judge can make a mistake, and when he accepts an application for the removal of irregularities, it is not excluded that there is a possibility that an error in such a decision may be subdued. Therefore, a complaint against a solution that adopts an application for the removal of irregularities would not be allowed in this situation. Next, which would be good for you to consider when it comes to certain provisions of the Amendments and Supplements Act, is the fact that the current Article 151 is related to the current article, I apologize now for being a new member of 151a, and in the proposal you marked it under Article 68th as a proposal for amendments, and here we Members of the SPS fully agree with you that in order to protect the interests of the parties in the process, and in particular the interest of the creditors who should collect their claim and who usually wait for the payment of their claim to in some way to hold that period. So, it doesn't go on forever to make the executive procedure as effective as possible. Therefore, this replacement, the replacement of the means of execution instead of being implemented on one other immovable property, I think it should have some time distance, because in the proposed text of the law there is no deadline, but it is undefined, we thought that the deadline should be at the latest until the public sale of immovable property. So, no later than the public sale of immovableity because we think it will be far more efficient, because when sales are announced, it is not disputed, but until then we can wait almost a year, and this is, if we arm it and say so, that is the deadline in which it has to be done and let it be at the latest until the sale, or until the public sale, I think that this will achieve a far greater degree of protection in legal certainty both the trustee and prevent the debtor from misusing anything that relates to the executive procedure. What should also be amended or supplemented is linked to Article 101. The bill, it refers to an existing Article 212. Here you have defined the following, I hope, that the MPs who listen to what I say will be able to understand, it is said, in a solution to the execution, or the conclusion of a public executioner, that the immobilities and moving things are determined, meaning, houses and moving things in the house, to be sold together if the moving things are located on or inside it. So there are moving things in the house, the things that are necessary for household or household and the house, of course, is an immovable property that is the subject of execution. And then you added one word that should be deleted here, which is either if they're functionally connected to the immovableity. Either it bothers, it can't be or, because it wouldn't be a sale if it were or there's no sale. So it could be – and if they're in a functional relationship because they're in a functional relationship, TV, washing machine, stove, anything that's functionally connected to the facility, with immoveable property, and there's no way to create a discrepancy or distance, or, or, you know, it could be -- both that word or, in some ways, there's really a real problem here. Furthermore, what is also important to point out, when it comes to our proposals, you said that there is a very sensitive issue in the bill, with which I have MPs and I guarantee our coalition partners agree, the most sensitive question of the child's interest. In the execution procedures, we also have that part of the execution that refers to the forced confiscation and surrender of the child. Unfortunately, it's not a rare case. Unfortunately, these are common situations in particularly controversies in the areas of marital relations, family relationships where a child is taken away and handed over to a forced journey. Now, in this part, you have changed earlier solutions and it has been defined to oversee the implementation of this measure of confiscation by judges now in this proposed text the court says. We now need to ask, as MPs, a question on whose behalf, or who in the name of the court, executes it. The court is a bit wider, as part of the court, either the judge or the bailiff can do so. Our deep conviction is that this should not be done by a court enforcer, because it is a very sensitive question. It is a very sensitive question of confiscation, or handing the child over to a forced journey. It is exclusively, that kind of surveillance must be done by the judge, both from the point of view of the court's authority and from the point of view of the very great attention and commitment to this issue. It is not all the same to take a child by force and hand it over to a father, if there is one such provision and, of course, if the child’s interest is thus safeguarded, and it is certainly to be kept. So I think it would be in that direction to correct it and to kind of change it. At the very end, since I am running out of time, I would like to draw your attention to a technical problem that may arise in the application of this law, where you are in Article 160, which binds you to Article 502 of the current law, stated the public executioner's obligation to submit the report once a day to the Ministry. So a day to file a report to the Ministry. Dear Minister, I think there are several thousand executives in Serbia and you can now imagine that several thousand reports come daily to the ministry. Who's going to process them? Receipt of these reports in such an enormous number requires the engagement of a large number of perpetrators, which means labour force. (President: Time.) Half a second. On the other hand, in this part, you should consider extending this time period once a day to one month or maybe even longer, because of you, and not because of us. I thank you and, once again, you have the full support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group for these draft laws. I hope that by understanding you will accept our well-intentioned suggestions contained in our amendments and that you will at least accept some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58983	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the word is Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58984	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security which made the rules of the executive procedure more socially responsible, which is very important for me and my fellow Social Democratic Party, and has strengthened the principle of proportion with the emphasis on the official duties of public executioners to take care of this principle. It is not grateful to talk about this law, because a solution that preys on property, sells memories or something that is hard to earn and becomes not our willful property of someone else, because of conditions that may be a loss of business or disease or some other accident that has happened to man, but a debt is a debt and the law is a law and it must be respected. The application of the Law on Enforcement and Security has forced many unconscious debtors to settle their obligations in time. At the same time, the regulation has brought a number of problems, the property of the debtors has been sold at significantly lower prices than the value, and many families have lost their roof over their heads due to a debt of several hundred thousand dinars. Due to unconscious work in recent months, five perpetrators who have been in conflict of interest have been suspended, numerous complaints from citizens and associations, examples of abuse of authorised persons have conditioned access to amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation. During the public debate, four round tables were organised with EU support, held in Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Belgrade. The European Union continuously supports Serbian judicial institutions through projects in the area of more effective implementation of the justice sector reform process. The ministry had great support for the USAID project "Government of Rights" which continuously monitored the work and supported the working group, as well as the EU project for "Justice, Support for Chapter 23" which also supported the organisation of public debates. In the European Commission's report on Serbia, one of the areas that has been praised is the area of execution. Consider not only the efforts, but also the results. Here is primarily meant to reduce the number of items left behind. The European Union through the "Justice, Support for Chapter 23" project has provided support for strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Justice in order to fulfil its role in the judicial reform process and to coordinate the measures set out in the Action Plan for Chapter 2. The European Union has allocated nearly 2m euros for the implementation of a two-year project. According to the Action Plan for Serbia's position on the Doing Business List of the World Bank in business terms, the law is scheduled to be passed in the third quarter of this year. Here, we are at the beginning of that third quarter, because the speed of execution depends on how much the rule of law has been achieved in Serbia, and this depends on Serbia's position on the "Ding Business List", but also on how much trustees and debtors are protected. When we talk about new amendments and additions to this law and we talk about and protection of creditors and debtors, I, Madam Minister, would especially like to highlight an extremely sensitive group in this part, and I would also like to look back on the previous period and some unpleasant situations that were during the very act of execution, we were witnesses through the media, at all in conversation with people, my distinguished colleague before me talked about taking children, I am not going to talk about that part, but I want to talk about the traumas that children are exposed to during the very act of execution. The act itself or the taking over of property or maybe the apartment is a very difficult and specific situation that implies that several police patrols are stopped in front of the house or apartment and a difficult situation arises. We can't exclude children from this situation in any way in this case. I think that the next period should look for a way to further involve some services in this part of the decision-making process to protect children from possible traumas, because parents themselves have come into such a situation and are already under great stress, the question is how much they can commit to children, explain to them what is going on, and in general, to protect them from any trauma. As a society, we must keep an eye on what kind of people they will grow up in tomorrow and look for a way to protect them if possible. I believe that in the coming period we will be working on this, because this legal solution also involves a series of newspapers that are actually more humane than the previous legal solution. In view of the fact that the public enforcer is a lawyer, an entrepreneur with delegated powers from the domain of the state administration, however, he acts in the field of justice with the right to decide in certain proceedings a solution to the rights and obligations of citizens as if he were an executive judge, although unlike... Judges, the perpetrator is not supplied with a constitutional guarantee of the independence of the judicial authority by the proceedings and other branches of the authorities. As is well known, the public executioner directly appoints and resolves, controls the executive power, and the executive trustee depends on his ability to earn, where his earnings are not fixed as with the judge, but depends on the degree of performance of the payment of the debt to the trustee. The fact that a public contractor, practically in a business relationship with a trustee. It is particularly dangerous in situations where the executive trustee is economically powerful, such as banks, public utility companies, EPS, telecommunications operators, and the executive debtor is a consumer who is a constitutional category and which the state, by law, is obliged to protect as an economically weaker side. The very positive draft is that the property in which the consumer lives, and due to the debt created by municipal and related services, cannot be sold for a debt of less than 5,000 euros. As the rules of public sale of real estate have been amended, an electronic bid has been introduced, a significantly reduced quota of intervention in the reception of executive debtors, improved rules on the exemption of protected receipts from execution and an extended range of things that are exempted from enforcement and which are now clearly imposed on the executioner to determine on the request of the executive debtor the costs of the procedure. It should certainly be commended to enable judicial control of enforcement conclusions in the implementation phase and to extend the circle of reasons for the issue of legal medicinal products, and it is also evident that the legislator's efforts to prevent the abuse of corruption and conflict of interest in the work of the perpetrators, including the accumulation of the costs of the proceedings, and to prevent some abuses of municipal enterprises resulting in a drastic increase in the costs of the proceedings at the expense of debtors. There is still no clear obligation for the executioner, as a legal write-delivery, solution or conclusion, to check the debtor's address provided by the trustee with the MUP. Article 37 states that delivery between a public enforcement officer and other authorities may also be made by electronic means, in accordance with the rules adopted by the minister responsible for the judiciary, in the follow-up text of the minister. The Court of Justice shall, through whose electronic advertising boards, provide acts and letters, keep a separate record of when the act or letters are highlighted, etc., but what is very important is that on this electronic plate, in addition to the data required to be written and that it is mandatory to also stand for the unique birth number of a specific citizen. We've been here the past few days discussing the Data Protection Act. I'm not sure if this is okay. It is noted that the perpetrators still received some new powers, and on the other hand, another piece of their jurisdiction was taken from the courts. The perpetrators have now been given jurisdiction to sell fixed and mobile items together, as well as certain responsibilities in the procedures in which the debtor must act, not to act, or to refrain from doing so. He was also told to decide on a proposal to return to his previous situation when the debtor failed to comment on his decision to execute. The problem is that the perpetrator has no interest in adopting this proposal because he is motivated by winning the prize, and the prize by adopting the objection could lose. Maybe we should think about this. Article 56 defines that when selecting between multiple means and execution cases, the public enforcement officer shall, under official duty, take into account that the execution is carried out by those means and those cases which are at least unfavourable for the executive debtor. It is good, and compared to the previous law this represents one significant improvement, where the public executioner will find a more favourable solution for his client and thus go into the interest of the citizen. The public executioner will, either on official duty or on a proposal from the party with the conclusion to change the already specified means and subject of enforcement, if there is an obvious disproportionateity between a specific asset and an execution case and the level of the Executive Trustee's claim. Also, the official duty of the executioner is clearly defined here and goes into the interest of, of course, debtors, but we'll see if there are any problems in application. And what I would particularly like to praise is a member of 258. It is the execution of profits or wages, fees, earnings, or wages fees that can be made at a rate of up to one half of the salary, then the execution of earnings, or salaries, wages, or wages that do not exceed the average net earnings of the last published data of the Republic's statistical authority, can only be made up to one third. The execution in minimum due to the execution shall be up to its quarter. The pension implementation can be carried out up to a third of it, the execution on a pension that does not exceed the average pension amount, according to the latest published data of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, can be carried out up to its quarter. Something I would particularly like to stress is that the future implementation of a new model of sales of mobile and immovable things, which will take place on an electronic platform, will be assessed as a revolutionary newspaper that is being introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and such newspapers as other solutions offered have been extremely welcomed by participants at round tables during public debates. The introduction of an electronic public competition will enable each type of abuse and significantly increase the prices of what is on the bid. Most members of the working group for making and amending this law agree that the public auction so far has been the weakest link and that for years the narrow circle of individuals and companies has appeared as buyers at auctions across the country. They physically, indirectly, and otherwise motivated potential customers to give up their participation at the auction, even before it began. If this method fails, it resorted to another scenario. One person offers a starting price, and the other a fictitiously unreasonablely high price. Others can thus only offer an amount greater than that unreasonablely high price. The objective of the electronic platform for public competition, with applicable safeguards, prevents such abuses. There's been a lot of talk in the media about this, so in some of your statements, Madam Minister, I've really been very informed about it, and I've listened a lot and I've listened to you while you've talked about the bill, you've clearly said that the Justice Department has already made a regulation that regulates electronic sales of immovableity and mobility with the help of the USAID project. The creation of a sublegal act with amendments and additions to the law only speaks of the seriousness with which this problem has been addressed. It is predicted that since 1 July 2020, this will be exclusively a sales regime. This law will also allow significantly less costs in so-called "Budget cases" in which the debtor is the Republic, the province or local self-government. Prior to the proposal to execute, the trustee will have to inform the Ministry of Finance about his intention 30 days earlier, extending the possibility of voluntary settlement. Smaller costs in these cases will also be achieved by reducing the charges for execution. What I also have to mention, we can't go around it from all sides, is that there's an emphasis here on the authority of a public contractor to order the police and to react if anyone, including the citizens, interferes with the execution. In addition to possible arrests, the draft amendments also introduce fines for those who prevent or interfere with execution. The collective that fights to throw people out into the street and gathers individuals and organizations says they will continue to work as they have so far, and the penalties will not interfere on the way to prevent emigration, only the fight will be moved to municipalities, banks, or trustees, but these measures will surely, they say, demotize people, to defend the most vulnerable. Moreover, what is foreseen and what is important to make a profit can be implemented at the height of one half, while only two thirds of the profits were possible earlier. For minimum profit, we said in what way. Now, this retirement thing is really very important, because we think it's the most endangered categories of our people and that it's really, really worked out here, and it's taken care of the endangered categories, so really me and my colleagues from the SDPS want to praise this good intentions and this good solution. Okay, best possible that this law proposes. What is also very important, is that after the entry of the notice of the enforcement solution, the public executioner will, either on official duty or on a proposal by the party, determine that the execution is carried out at another immobility, if it is impossible to do so on a predefined or if there is an estimated way to do so for a smaller amount, rather than as specified, as it was done in the previous law. If another means and subject to enforcement are specified, the notice of the execution solution shall remain recorded in the immobility cataster until the request of the executive trustee has been settled, it shall be referred to in Article 151. A draft law on enforcement and security. The draft changes added a provision that prohibits the confiscation of somebody's property for a municipal debt of less than 5,000 euros. The perpetrators have so far been able to demand police assistance during the execution, but the amendments to the law stressed that at the request of the public enforcement officer, police would use the means of coercion against the debtors and other present persons, but I believe that they would also take care of the work in the coming period, not to have any negative comments and negative experiences, as has already been. The most common suspicions of abuse in public executions occur during sale of housing in public competitions. In light of the changes to the law, it is stated that special attention will be paid to solving the problem in the area and that the problem will be resolved by the introduction of an electronic public competition, which will, as it were, prevent any type of abuse and significantly increase the prices at which the subject of the sale will be carried out in the executive procedure. The new version of the law completely prohibits the executioners, their deputies, officials, relatives, from buying real estates that have been advertised for sale in the executive procedure, whether or not they participate in it. The current version is possible if they do not participate in a concrete process. The new law also provides for amendments when it comes to disciplinary proceedings against the perpetrators. Instead of the previous six, a 12-month deadline has now been given to initiate the process of learning about disciplinary injury. What I would like to say in the end, given that this law is truly based on all those members that I have cited and that are significantly improved, that it has made it truly socially responsible in relation to previous solutions and that in this law it has taken care of the most vulnerable groups, of those with the lowest incomes, of the people receiving the minimum wager, of pensions. Social Democratic Party MPs will support the proposed law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58985	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58986	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on enforcement and security is certainly perhaps the law that causes the most public attention, which shows how much the media is interested in this subject, sometimes justified, very often and unwarrantedly. Because almost every media-accompanied situation has been checked, it has been supervised by the Ministry of Justice and in much of these cases there has been absolutely no irregularity in the conduct of public perpetrators. But simply, the subject is such that it draws great attention. A great deal of attention was given back in 2011, when a whole new judicial profession was introduced into our legal system, but I have to remind you that the 2011 law had a lot of shortcomings. First of all, when we talk about public executioners and the conditions for their choice, I will remind you that the law at the time absolutely did not provide that public executioners must have, as one of the conditions for choice, passed a judicial exam, which we removed in 2015. This was the reason why we had 16 resolved perpetrators since 2016, because they failed to meet that condition and passed a judicial exam within the deadline. In addition, additional qualifications were also provided for necessary training, which is also a condition for the election and precisely the Ministry of Justice for the first time now conducts a competition under difficult conditions, where perpetrators, in addition to long-term experience, of a passed judicial examination, must also undergo appropriate training in order to even apply for a vacant enforcement post. Also, the 2011 Law, I will remind you, took the right of the debtor to a basic remedy, i.e. a legal remedy, which is the right of appeal. Therefore, from 2011 to 1 July 2016, executive debtors had only the right to use the complaint and the request to remove irregularities because the complaint did not exist in the executive procedure. In 2015, it was removed. As an assistant who was then working on amendments and additions to the Law, I know what we were facing during that period, and now as a minister, but what I promised in 2016 anyway, when I came into office, that this law and how to follow, we will follow its implementation and as soon as the need for change is indicated, above all, to remove all irregularities that occur in practice, that we will approach the amendments and additions. I think it's done. The task force that was formed over a year ago I think it can boast of its work, because it was numerous, but the most important thing is that the public debate was such that absolutely every proposal submitted by interested parties was considered and you can also see it in the impact analysis. I'm not sure this kind of analysis of the effects of the ministry is often delivered, nor is my ministry. Exactly with this impact analysis, when it comes to changes and additions to this law, we are also very proud. In this context, you can see what we faced during the public debate, what was all doubt, both ours and those who participated, and what was eventually accepted as a compromise solution. Mr. Ivanovic made a lot of suggestions. I believe that even during the debate on amendments, we will be able to discuss this in more detail, but just to draw attention to some details. When it comes to the conclusion of the transfer of immovableity, there is the possibility of applying for the removal of irregularities and we felt that when it comes to the allocation of immovableity there is no legal means, because it is only one procedural action that leads to the conclusion, to the handover of immovableity, because it is extremely important, because by handing over the right of property itself. It therefore provides for the possibility to apply for the removal of irregularities. When it comes to Article 67, you said that if a request for the removal of irregularities is adopted, there is no possibility of a complaint. I'm just bringing you back to basic Article 24, which says there's a possibility of appeal to a first-degree solution, so that the general rule is applied and I believe that would not cause any problems in practice when it comes to the conduct of courts. The part relating to the control of the perpetrators and their obligation to once daily deliver a report to the Ministry of Justice does not deliver it in writing. What we're proud of is that there's electronic surveillance of the work of the public-executive offices, the ministry has passed a rule on that, so we can monitor what's going on in the public-executive offices on a daily basis. It's important that by nine o'clock in the evening we have the last adjective situation that exists in the public-executive office and what's most important to monitor movement in dedicated and special accounts. What I can announce, in order to strengthen the supervision of public executioners, that we will try to link this system to the tax administration that will also exercise control from its jurisdiction on that side, so that I think that any financial operations of the executioner can be monitored, whether they settle their obligations when it comes to paying taxes and what all transactions they carry out with their specific and dedicated accounts. When it comes to the delivery of a single parent number, it is one of the obligations that exists and which is an integral part of the proposal to execute. Now you have said whether it is necessary, I move on to the exhibition that Mrs. Zivkovic had, whether it is necessary for municipal enterprises to have the possibility to deliver or seek a single home number by the Ministry of the Interior. I'm going to tell you now what practice is and what happens every day. Or maybe we didn't get along? Just to explain why we introduced that utility companies have the opportunity to require the Ministry of Interior to deliver a unique home number, which is also an integral part of the proposal for execution and the reasons for its completeness. [[President: I will give you the right to a replica, colleague Zivkovic.]] Very often in practice, municipal companies do not have such data, submit a proposal for enforcement, such a proposal is rejected and we are entering a litigation procedure for the collection of municipal claims. There are different ways of evicting and by utility companies in these situations, even then, if perhaps there are numbers in their records, they are used by this means to avoid even distribution of the case, they enter a court procedure to obtain an executive order, based on which they would determine which enforcement would be the one to carry out their claims. This is one way to speed up the process and that it is very easy to get the data necessary to submit an orderly proposal and to comply with all the rules concerning the settlement of the claim. What is important, which I would also like to point out when protection is, not just receiving fees and wages, this law is exempt from any receipt that the person has in accordance with the Financial Support Act of the Family. So it's not just a child's allowance, like it was now. You know for a fact that the Financial Support Act introduces a greater number of benefits and opportunities for individuals to receive. Today, by the power vested in this law will absolutely be excluded from the possibility of execution, so I think this is one of the major papers of this law. This is exactly what we show the social character this law should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58987	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Slavica Zivkovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58988	Madam Minister, I thank you for your reply and once again I really want to commend what is extremely important. Once again, I would like to commend, as I said in my previous presentation, what has been particularly addressed, is that it has been cared for by particularly vulnerable groups. So here we're talking about social givings and people with the lowest incomes, pensions that have come under some unfortunate circumstances. We, as a society, should strive to do so and therefore indeed all praise to you and your ministry for the efforts made to draft this bill. But what I'm trying to say about the unique birth number, I don't think we understand each other in that part. I have only mentioned here a Article 37 relating to an electronic advertising board, where it says that the records will contain a business number, a court case, or subject to public enforcement, a name and a business name, a JMBG, a home number and a PIB party in the process. I only asked for that part, because I'm not sure that this information should be publicly highlighted, although we are talking about an electronic advertising board, which is being introduced as one of the new solutions, improved solutions. I think it will be, and I believe it will be more effective. It's the only question that's brought a little confusion, otherwise I speak for both my colleagues and the people I've talked to about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58989	Thank you, Mrs. Zivkovic. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58990	Thank you. Just one explanation. When it comes to an electronic ad board, it's a record, which you have listed, a record that will be available to the court. She won't be public, available to everyone. Every single person who wants access, he accesses with his data. Which means if I want to check if there's any information on the advertising board about me personally, I'll go through my unique birth number to get into the database and check it out that way. This will not be made available to other persons, but only to the user who does so through all the parent numbers, which is the court records that the court will have. In this way, in fact, every abuse of a single parent number has been prevented.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58991	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58992	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last week we have been very broadly discussing the subject of continuity and discontinuity between the SNS authorities and DS authorities, i.e. the authorities before 2012. There we could have understood certain moves, that something had changed for the better, but really the key things and the key actions remained exactly the same, only now new people are doing it. We had the opportunity to hear here from the representatives of the ruling majority again that famous Chapter 23. Because of this Chapter 23 and the commendation that comes after them from the European Commission, we have done a lot of things wrong in our legal system, including the law on enforcement and security. I will remind you that the first law and the first introduction of a public enforcer adopted most DS in 2011, and most SNS in 2015 confirmed the same law with the same key solutions. So complete continuity with this one institution that brings nothing good to the citizens of Serbia has been achieved. This famous Chapter 23, we can hear it very often from various representatives and executive authorities, as well as the ruling majority in the Assembly, would indeed turn out to be very important for the lives of Serbian citizens, to improve their overall standards and perspectives, and in fact reality is completely different. Therefore, because of the EU's commendation, i.e. The European Commission in its report, we have completely replaced the current system of enforcement with an institution that has proved to have no real knowledge of the right. Also, we could hear that, of course, in every activity, there are weeds in every grain, there is abuse in every activity. That's all true. But in public enforcement matters, abuse is not an exception, but abuse has become a rule. In these few years, the Public Executive Association has grown into one, and I can't say no organization, or esnaf, or any of that, it's more like a kind of mob clan with all this Chamber of Public Executives, because, in other words, how to explain that, for example, execution is carried out, the object of real estate, i.e. An apartment in Belgrade. The Aksentijević family's apartment was kidnapped, and this apartment was later purchased at the auction by some Djordje Colovic, who is the son of Danica Colovic, the Commissioner of the Organizational Unit of the Chamber of Executive from Kragujevac and vice president of the Executive Board of the Chamber of Executive. We have a situation with the perpetrators' issues to organise various bids after these seized properties. Neither does anyone know when these bids, nor who applies, and very often not only is the public excluded from this process but very often there is a large number of private security personnel, no one should even approach a bidding that is not from that narrow circle of people associated with the perpetrators. In 2017 3,736 seized apartments. Just that information, to ignore everything else, should be something alarming for executive power. Look out, 3,736 families are out of apartments. Quite the opposite solutions to the legislation's solutions, I think, from 2001. Thus, if a law was passed before, now, for 18 years now, it does not mean that the amendment of that law automatically and in itself is modernization. It doesn't have to be something that's been going on for a long time, for example. since the law was passed that means that the law was spent, that it no longer corresponds to our social reality, to our life in Serbia. That doesn't necessarily mean anything. The question arises – the basis, i.e. the interest in passing such a law in 2011 and 2015, and here are these changes in 2019. It cannot be said that it is the interest of Serbian citizens because it is not. The situation is different. Scandalous. Pretty amazing for someone who might not know enough about these topics. For example, pensioner Branka Havat and her son Tarik, who were evicted from the Doricol apartment due to a 6,500-euro debt, were later sold at auction for 26,000 euros, and the market value of the apartment in Doricol, in downtown Belgrade, the municipality of Stari Grad is more than 90,000 euros. Where's the Anti-Corruption Agency? Where's the Anti-Corruption Council? It is also scandalous that the public executioner himself determines his own commissions and his costs in the execution process. So, as far as anyone can think. Now I don't like this, now this is a little more expensive, today I'm in a bad mood now will be even more expensive, etc. If tomorrow a citizen, who has an obvious problem when a public executive abuses his powers, should complain about it somewhere, he complains about the Chamber of Public Executives and the Discipline Commission and the Chamber. So, some people from the association, i.e. The executioner's chamber. Our people say, "Cadiah is suing you." The incense judgeth you. Here, to that degree, we have brought our legal system now and all to improve some statistics, now as if we are not watching how it reflects on the citizens of Serbia. So there were, I don't know, two million and I don't know, hundreds of thousands of unfulfilled liabilities, now there's a million and a half, or a million and eight hundred thousand, so that's good for automation, and as that's reflected in the order in which these debts are due, i.e. those obligations, we don't see it. We see neither in the European Commission's reports when it boasts, nor does the Ministry of Justice speak of it. Then, as we now care about the position of citizens in the enforcement process, up to 5,000 euros in debt will not be seized by immobility. No, I can understand that now, 5,000 euros for municipal services, I apologize, who remembered it should be 5,000 euros? How did you get that number? Did someone say, I mean 5,000, I think 4,000, how did someone get a figure of exactly 5,000 euros? Is that the same advice from the European Commission, and what happens when it is 5100 euros, or 5001 euros? What does that mean, and municipal claims? So someone needs to be in charge of electricity bills for 600,000 dinars, for example. and I know that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is one company that is not so efficient, but I think that every user who doesn't pay the bills gets cut off by electricity much earlier than there is a debt of up to 600,000 dinars. For three months not to pay, I think the EPS has already shut down the power, but someone is now provided if they make up to 5,000 euros to execute on real estate. A change that won't bring anything. So, very often this is how real estates, apartments, because of these debts, when all interest and fees are included, and all other costs of the executioner are even five and ten times higher than the basic debt, and the immovableity is sold secretly, no one knows where, no one buys, no one is informed. There's something in our right that's called the right obstacle to purchase. So it should be for example. The spouse was allowed first to buy an apartment of that value, or a house, or whatever else, or a son, a daughter, a brother, or as it was already regulated with the right of an obstacle to purchase. But, no, the perpetrators don't care. Many changes where there is really no interest, except for this interest of chapter 23, as presented here, just to be fulfilled and we will be modern Western society on our European path, unstoppable in the process of Euro integration, simply everyone will look up to us. It's unclear. I will remind you of the law which was in force until 2011, and be careful now, that change is the main one, the execution for the achievement of the monetary claim and the security of such a claim cannot be carried out on matters or rights necessary to meet the basic needs of the debtor and the person who, by law, is required to maintain, or to carry out an independent activity that is the main source of the means to live. The execution will take into account the dignity, personality of the debtors, as well as the fact that execution and security will be as little unfavourable as possible for the debtor. Can anyone say that when public contractors carry out their obligations to the immovable property, they take care of the dignity of the debtors? Has anyone heard of such experience? No, it's already an incursion of immobility, always accompanied by the police, although past solutions in the past law until 2011 allowed executions in police escorts, but not always, but only when they are such and special circumstances, and not every time on a regular basis, and now we can watch really some scenes where someone shows not only no respect for that debtor. It's not someone who's less valuable than someone who isn't, like a man or his personality. He does not care about his dignity, he acts mercilessly in executions. The Anti-Corruption Council has already objected that it is an unusual case for an perpetrator to decide on civil rights of debtors in the enforcement process. When the perpetrator began to have judicial powers to judge what rights are, what aren't they? More than 230 of these people have been in Serbia for seven years. So, problems are getting bigger and bigger every year, and a certain group of people in all of Serbia are getting abnormally rich in someone else's accident. You know, it's one thing for someone to be in debt out of obsess and then spend money on all sorts of things and try to hide, to get away from the law, etc. It's an exception, it's not a rule. People are often forced into their lives to borrow and borrow or whatever else they need to take care of. This law on enforcement since 2011, confirmed in 2015, is again in 2019 and only goes in favour of banks and other large creditors. There are protected banks here, and there should be equality between creditors and debtors. I guess that's the key in every law, equality of the press. To be clear, we are not against the execution of obligations, everyone should pay what is due, but not at all cost to lose a roof over his head, paying abnormal fees, often and not being informed of it, because the execution procedure is almost in complete secrecy, but in a normal, regular procedure, where one of the great legal values is taken care of, which is legal certainty. Every law must provide legal certainty for every citizen of Serbia. Here is an excuse that the perpetrators were introduced and with this practice continued when the government changed, due to the efficiency of the procedure, to improve the efficiency of the procedure because until then the courts were ineffective and there were many unimplemented obligations. So, the government in Serbia since 2011, so we saw it in 2015, when they were already advanced today, goes through a line of less resistance. Instead of trying to protect all civil, human, procedural and all other rights of the people on whom something needs to be done, i.e. On their property, we have now let it be done there by someone, who sees his great private interest in it, has the protection of the state, has the protection of the police to be absolutely greedy in affluent way. Our people would say such an occupation is cursed. Imagine, if we applied that same logic in health care, which is also full of problems, long waiting lists, insufficient facilities, health institutions in catastrophic condition, lack of certain appliances, etc. If we now, as the Ministry of Justice did for the perpetrators, if the Ministry of Health had trained, for example. Some 300 people so that they now go privately to operate on Serbia, to provide health services. We'd say that's not normal, right? To protect personality integrity, his health. This requires professional preparation, school, experience, that someone has specialization, etc. I guess the executor needs school, too, and the executioner needs jurisdiction. There's someone in violation of civil and human rights, just as valuable as life and health. That's if we applied that logic. So, here's another thing, which I couldn't believe, for example, making a profit or a salary, a profit fee, an article 115, or a salary fee, can be made at an amount equal to or less than one half of the earnings, wages, wages, salaries, or their fourths, if their amount is equal to or less than minimum earnings. So here in the legal solution, we admit that there are salaries less than minimum earnings in Serbia and no one sees the problem. It may not be in the next European Commission report commended, but we really need to see a problem in that. The Serbian Radical Party is in favour of abolishing the public enforcement institutions, returning the court process, how will you make effective judicial perpetrators? By taking care of their salaries and by how many executions they had, all by law, all with the jurisdiction of the court, you increase 10% after each execution. Here you will see how our judiciary would behave more effectively, and not like this, leave private faces to get rich abnormally, so no one controls them. We are the only political party in Serbia, which advocates the abolition of public executioners, if we have the opportunity and the people of Serbia show us confidence, we will first work to ensure that these perpetrators, that public executioners are abolished. We are already in the process of collecting signatures for petitions against public perpetrators, we already have the support of more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia. We urge you to consider this issue well, this concerns a certain citizen of Serbia and their legal certainty. It is not more important that the EU praises us or the European Commission in its report on their legal certainty. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, allow me, Mr. Arsic, another thirty seconds, has well apostrophed this question about children, says, no longer a judge to determine, but a court-supervised court. With the court's supervision, what does it mean with the court's supervision? It can be and the court has allowed someone to make a decision, an executioner to do it. What's court-supervised mean? It can be interpreted so widely, that I just don't know why it was in this law, why this change? Tomorrow, we can see the perpetrators of child adoption as well. (President: Bringing the end. This is not a law to be adopted by automation because of EU orders, because of Chapter 23, this is a very sensitive thing. We urge you to reconsider this, do not vote for automation because it comes from the EU, let us take a little more account and care for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58993	The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58994	Thank you. We have been listening here for a long time to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security work because of EU orders and the action plan for Chapter 23, if in my speech today and in my address I have not mentioned a plan of action, nor the EU. We need an effective enforcement procedure for the rule of law, which means that anyone who has certain claims, which is most often determined by a judicial decision, can make this claim by force if the debtor does not exercise his obligation voluntarily. We listen here all the time to the protection of citizens, to the protection of citizens, as if all citizens are debtors, as if trusts were also not citizens whose rights should be precisely exercised in the executive procedure. You have mentioned several times that the work of the perpetrator is almost equal to the abuse and that their conduct is a rule of abuse. You know, when you make those grades, you have to have proof of that. Abuse exists if it is established in an appropriate procedure, whether it is a disciplinary procedure or a criminal procedure. Believe that in the past few years there have been several dozen disciplinary proceedings, but also criminal proceedings, because I personally filed criminal charges against certain perpetrators. Also, false claims are that there is a chamber that has its own disciplinary commission. The justice ministry is forming a disciplinary commission overseeing the work of the perpetrators, and most members of the judge's office who control the work are elected in the commission. What's important, and you also mentioned several times, that you absolutely don't know when they're being sold, publicly selling immovable property. That's not true, because you can get acquainted with any conclusion on public sales, see where it's being held, when it's being conducted, and you can attend if you're interested. Whether the perpetrators are some educated or uneducated, I will just tell you, and you probably didn't listen to me enough, that the previous 2015 Implementation and Security Act also increased the qualification required for persons who want to be public enforcement. It must be a person who has completed the Law School, passed a judicial exam, had undergone appropriate training and had a certain working experience, almost met the same conditions required for a person to be appointed judge. The judicial perpetrators, i.e. those who carried out the execution in courts, were civil servants, mostly those with medium professional training. How efficient our system of execution in courts was, it tells us that by 2015 we had over 2,000 executive cases in courts, which lasted for over tens of years. Today we have over 600,000 cases, executive cases in courts, these are cases where proposals for execution are submitted just over ten years ago, so we have nearly 200,000 cases that are over ten years old, close to 350,000 cases that are between five and ten years old and will never be done, because these are all cases that stand in courts, and there are 614,000 of them, cases where the trustee submitted a proposal for execution and absolutely no more action by the court. Are we happy about these circumstances? Of course not, but the courts have proven unable to carry out the execution, that they are not up to the task. That was why the state had to react in 2011, to find a more efficient enforcement system. Are the perpetrators effective? This also shows that the average length of execution in the executioner today lasts 110 days. Are we satisfied with that? Not yet, because we are still below the average required for effective execution, but 110 days is certainly much better than having an execution that lasts 15 years and where the executive trustee will never settle his claim. On the other hand, you forget that there is a public executive's personal responsibility, that the obligations correspond absolutely to their assets, so that's another additional way to ensure more efficient treatment. You are also talking about the legal disconuality and the introduction of public enforcement in 2011, but I must remind you that in 2000, the Assembly adopted the Law on the Executive Procedure, which made the disconuality completely relative to the previous executive procedure that existed at the time. At that time, the minister of justice was Mr. Petar Jojic, so he will tell you that the law has caused a great controversy in the public, a great controversy primarily of the profession. What is important, that the right to appeal was then abolished, the absolute right of appeal was thrown out of the executive procedure, the possibility of objecting was limited, the third party's objection was absolutely not there and what is important is that delivery was introduced through the table of the court which is very often criticised today. So when you say who did what, you have to keep in mind what was done in 2000 and what the Executive Procedure Act was then passed, which absolutely reverses all the rights of the executive debtor that we are trying to protect by this law. The 2015 law has improved the protection of executive debtors, and I believe the amendments and additions to the laws that are now in front of you and that we are discussing. What is important is that this law has a social character, although the Law on Executive Procedure is such a character that it should not have, but a number of provisions speak of how and how social protection has been addressed, not only to clarify the principle of proportion, but rather to restrictions relating to forced executions on salaries and charges of executive debtors, to forced enforcement when it comes to pensions, when it comes to restrictions on which things are absolutely not possible to be carried out. You forget, in the bill, that it was laid down to exempt all receipts received under the Financial Support Act of the Family. But what is important and what should not be forgotten is that this law is exempt from enforcement and all the resources used by the state authorities to carry out their activities, so that it will not happen at auctionation or to list medical equipment or means of action within courts, such as we used to practice in the previous period, that courts themselves have come into the situation because of their debts to list computers and to sell them for public sale. Once again, we do not pass the law because of the European Union, because of the obligations set out in the Action Plan for Chapter 23. The law is passed for the sake of Serbian citizens, such as the protection of the executive debtor's personality, should also protect the trustee's personality and allow anyone who has the right, above all, to exercise his right to do so. They are not the only claims that lie in the executive process of municipal action. The year-to-year declines, and the number of executions carried out on the basis of executive documents is increasing. The largest number when the perpetrators began to work was the settlement of municipal claims, but exactly the work of the executioner contributed to the increase in voluntary collection. So today you have utility companies that absolutely no longer employ the perpetrators in their work, because their voluntary charge is over 90%. And once again, when you talk about abuses, I would like you to talk about those who have been documented and who have been established in an appropriate procedure, and not based on the inscriptions in the media that have been very often checked, have not been checked either by the Chamber of Executives, have not been checked by the Ministry of Justice, so when proper supervision is carried out, there has been absolutely no abuse by public perpetrators. I'm not saying they weren't in certain situations, but wherever she was discovered, or a disciplinary procedure was initiated, or a criminal report was filed, which was done by the Justice Department in the last three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58995	The People's MP, Aleksandar Seselj, has the right to reply, and then Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58996	Mrs. Kuburovic, I don't think you listened to me very carefully. I wasn't talking about legal discontinuity, I was talking about the continuity of the government in fact that exists between DS and SNS, because here's a simple argument when some bad law that was passed in the time of DS is being spoken here, as it's being said, e.g. For the Rules of Procedure – yes, that law is bad, but it is not us, but they are Democrats. I guess you understand that the law doesn't apply once and for all. No law applies to the imperative. The law can be changed by established procedure. When you say – the courts have proved incompetent, you know, we can say then tomorrow – and the courts have proved unable to prosecute in criminal proceedings, to discuss criminal matters, it should now be done by someone else, perhaps possibly private, to be more effective. How can courts prove incompetent? You should provide conditions for courts to do so effectively and to protect the civil and human rights and procedural rights of each debtor, as well as the trustees, of course. What are the results of this time of public execution? Those who owe the most still owe continue to abuse the law, and those who are charged from apartments, from working machines, from labour funds, where they are discussed after what happens to their children, they suffer. These are the results of the executioner. I didn't say that you were talking about the European Union and Chapter 23, maybe you didn't, but I heard it here in this room today, in general, from the atmosphere and in general how public followed this whole issue of public enforcement. I'm just saying, it's supposed to be a sober approach to this subject. This is not an ordinary thing, it is not a formality, this concerns every citizen of Serbia individually, and the abuses are very little by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58997	The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, it is not disputed that Serbian radicals were in power at the time of the adoption of the Law on Executive Procedure when the existing provisions of the 1978 Implementation Act were amended. It's one of the modern laws, made by experts and experts. Take the task force I formed, you have it at the Ministry of the Archives, you will see that there were experts from the judiciary and from the university, and you will see that the law was precise and clear at the time. Secondly, we did this law and it was in the hands of the court, not in the hands of criminals. You've got a major crime in court today, and you've got public records. If we take care of ourselves, we'll do research, give us information on how many public contractors there are, take it since they were introduced, their receipts, the court charged minimum costs, so citizens of the debtors as debtors could carry out without such drastic measures and withdrawals. It was not under the law, Mrs Kuburovic, that a 90-year-old grandmother had been sold her apartment because she had not paid for the electricity. It didn't happen to be sold and taken away 3,700 apartments at the time. Now, if you have that kind of data, compare it, and then we can talk about which law is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u58999	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59000	When it comes to the number of perpetrators, currently in the Republic of Serbia for 214 perpetrators and three deputies, which means 217 executive offices that employ close to 2,000 persons, which means most of these employees are lawyers, a large part of the lawyers are employed in public-executor offices, and when it comes to the number of judges and the number of officers who have acted in enforcement, that number was less than 400. It just tells you how many people are hired in public-executive offices who regularly receive salaries for their work. I have to go back to the 2000 Executive Procedure Act, so I remind you again that you have abolished the right to appeal by that law, because exactly when Article 8 is talking about legal medicines, it says that no more complaints can be made against the first-degree solutions. It was just one of your main criticisms, when it came to the 2011 law, which abolished the right to appeal to the executive debtor to protect his rights. Also, this law of 2000 was introduced by debt slavery, or debt prison, because unless a person fulfils his obligation, or an obligation to do so, that obligation was replaced by a fine, so if you don't pay even a fine, then prison was determined, which is also one of the basic human rights violations. Whether the courts charged minimum tariffs or not, it just shows that the courts did not respect the court’s tax, i.e. the Law on court fees, as they did not respect it when it came to the implementation of the leave, so very often it raises the question whether it was collected by a public register or in court, even though it was absolutely prescribed an identical tariff for both the public notebook and the tax to be applied in court, which means that there was a breach by the court. Remember, that exactly the tax the court charges is part of the money used to improve the position of employees. This is the money used to pay the salaries of judges and civil servants, to pay for the stimulation received by civil servants, so they were probably in the interest of respecting the Law on judicial fees and the amounts charged by the laws, rather than of setting a flat-rate minimum fee for fees. So, once again, I point out that the 2000 law has just introduced some newspapers that were adopted by DS in 2011, which we were correcting in 2015, and here we are through amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59001	Thank you. You'll get a line from your colleague Jojic. Just to let the MPs know that, in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87, Articles 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will work even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59002	Ladies and gentlemen, as for Ms. Kuburovic's claim, I think you should look at the parallel right. Serbia, or the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, is using the norms of positive international law and parallel law that you said were about some debt slavery. Take German law, so you'll see these provisions have been applied in some way. Furthermore, as for the appeal, Mrs Kuburovic, I had the opportunity to defend people, and now I have compared complaints against the executive procedure, and I have come to the conclusion that it was ineffective and stalled the proceedings per year, if you declare the appeal and the case comes before the District Court, one year waiting for a second-degree solution. I came from this logic, that the citizen who has been detained has the right to state the complaint and that Mrs Kuburović's bigger decision, Mrs Kuborovic, was then paying attention to the law that the appeal did not go to the District Court for reasons of efficiency, but that, in the sense of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the right to appeal has everyone in question, when it comes to his interests or any other legal means, we then introduced an objection, but to be resolved by the First Instance in the three Judges. Therefore, Mrs. Kuburovic, pay attention to that. As for public contractors and this novelty... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59003	Thank you, colleague Jojic. (Petar Jojic: You are aware and have knowledge, that never because of not paying the electricity man raised his hand to himself... ) Right to replication, I am reminded of the mention of the political party and by my colleague Seselj. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59004	Thank you, Chairman. I've reported to the party, and I'm going to make sure that after all these replicas, we can manage in a short time to respond to what I believe should be answered by an authorised SNS representative. Well, the SNS took over in 2012 and took responsibility for the exercise of that authority. What was the quality of the government, the citizens who will judge it in the elections will say? I have to say I don't agree with being in any kind of relationship with DS, especially not with, in that way, whether we did something or didn't do it. You know, you have a situation until 2012, when nothing has been done for the citizens of Serbia, but it has only been done for some personal interests, these people who have exercised power until then and have a post-2012 situation when everything has been done for the citizens. Now I can use this replica and the next line, just to list in which areas all SNS have done a lot for the citizens. Today we have new roads, new factories, new jobs, new investments, and better social policy, and better education, and better health and so on. So I think this bill will only have benefits for the citizens. Benefit consists of many amendments and additions because it is true from this bill that the Working Group has made detailed approaches to making amendments and supplementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59005	Right on line, MP, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59006	I just wanted to explain what I said a little while ago, so no one is obliged if there is a bad law, it is changing by procedure by the parliamentary majority in the legislature voting a new law, with better solutions. If the excuse is that another political party was then in power, which some law was passed, it's only concrete to this law about it today, but we've heard this many times about the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, no law is eternal, it doesn't last forever, it can change, as it changed in 2011 in 2001, so in 2019, the law of 2011 can be changed if, for example, we are taught by experience of what happened to us by introducing an institution of public enforcement in Serbia, and our experience is more than negative. All that has to do with them is under great doubt and in great secrecy, and the association of every citizen of Serbia when mentioned to him by a public executioner is greed. These are obvious cases and are not talked about enough in public or anyone else’s business. I agree, everyone has to pay what's due and with interest if they don't carry out their duties in time, but there are still some limits, human rights and human dignity, no one is so obliged to take it away. That kind of debt can't exist. That's not being taken care of, and I wish we had a different system, more efficient, under the supervision of the courts. The judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia, the branch of government, are part of the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59007	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59008	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Madam Ministers with Associates, I am one of those who strike in 2011 when an institute of public enforcement was introduced, opposing that, and considering that they can and should still be done by courts, but of course not in the conditions and the way they did it in the previous period. I am also not of those who are overly interested, even what the EU thinks about it, nor what the action plan obliges us to do, and especially what the World Bank thinks about all this and the processes in Serbia, but I am extremely interested in what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia think and how well the legal system of the Republic of Serbia works just because of its citizens. If we reach that goal, then we will have no problem with the serious and well-intentioned opinions of these on the sides I've counted. In fact, if someone wanted the courts to solve the executive cases in an efficient way by 2011 he had serious opportunities and space to do so and bring it in, as they say in the jargon imposed, to ensure that the proper number of judges, to ensure that the perpetrators were sufficiently stimulated, to do their job, to monitor all of this, but apparently that it was not thought enough, it was not enough, and then as a solution, this came about what we are talking about today. What is proposed cannot be changed just every few years by a system that will implement the executive procedure, because it would simply be a very serious violation of legal certainty, which is something that is very important when it comes to citizens' attitude towards the state and state towards citizens. I am thinking to that extent when it comes to legal certainty, if I had asked myself myself, and probably my contemporaries, there would never have been a return of the country to the peasants, because the only effect of all this is that today we resent whether a third or a half or a quarter of Vojvodina will put even strangers under our paw, so we have passed a law that prevents and prevents that kind of traffic. I would never agree with the return of property to pre-war tycoons, but we are here today where we live in this time and it is a good thing that in one serious and thorough way approaches the construction of a public enforcement institution. The 2011 transition, when it can be said openly that this job has been done by people who could not possibly meet the conditions, at least from my point of view, because only without a judicial exam indicates something that in our legal circles says there is not enough experience, there is not enough knowledge to deal with one of these types of matter that is extremely serious and responsible. Thus, in 2015 the changes that were taking place in this direction were fully in place, as well as many of the changes that we have here today, we can treat that indeed are the fruit of a serious thought and good analysis of what has proved to be good or bad in the existence of public enforcement institutes since 2011. I have to say that many problems, exactly what you have in just one short footnote, mentioned in the work of the perpetrator, but not only in the work of the perpetrators, but also in many other institutions, but I would not like to expand the subject further now, arise precisely from the diversity of court practice. We have different court practices in four appeals courts, whether we want to admit it or not. In many cases, the Supreme Cassation Court is not even able to even this practice through extraordinary audits, and in some cases this type of harmonisation of court practice is not possible. That's one of the reasons why you have to follow closely the way you do things, primarily the courts, because they stay here for the good part of the powers and the courts themselves through the proceedings, but the public enforcer, because they can show where these shortcomings from the court practice are manifested. For example, one of the simplest details that is removed by this law, i.e. these proposed amendments, is whether the public executioner is carrying out the payment of claims based on maintenance and that is what the courts interpreted differently. In some courts, they held exclusively clean that the court charges, believing that only the court was empowered under the previous provisions, and here in these provisions it is said - that everything else except when it comes to the collection of claims, when it comes to family relations, is carried out by the court, and this can be carried out by a public enforcer by choice of party practically who will define how it would like to do so So, this shows, indeed, one fundamentality that has brought about and resulted in such proposed changes. Of course there's nothing ideal. The most ideal thing would be if Serbia had no reason for anyone to be in charge of litigation, so there would be no problem with forced collection and forced execution. A lot of people may resent me for this attitude, but I only have one thing to remind myself of. Not only are Serbian citizens debtors, Serbian citizens are in many cases and trusts. Let us not only neglect that category of people, because the courts have not done their job in a timely manner, because at all costs we want to protect the debtor and some ordinary citizens, some ordinary people have not been sufficiently protected and have not been able to properly and timelyly exercise their right, which they have or should achieve through a court ruling, and it is achieved in the end and when the execution is carried out, they are simply not given the opportunity to do so. And now that we're weighing here, on the one hand talking about debtors, on the other hand we're talking about trustees and we've got all the time in our heads: banks, public enterprises, the state, etc. None of us will say that confidants are underage children who live in misery today, who have no value, because an irresponsible parent, who is not entrusted with care and care, does not do his duty. So, what do we say now? Poor guy who's even going to sell an apartment tomorrow to collect back claims on the name of supporting a little kid... Oh, not one apartment, 22 apartments should be sold to him. So we have a situation like that. One moment there was thinking that even the sale of immovable property should be limited to some kind of export, any claim that it is. Now, for example, imagine that there are 5,000 euros left to claim that one cannot sell the only immobility to someone who has cheated 50 or 100 people for 200 to 1,000 euros, when you look at it, each one is a claim individually, and we now say - Okay, we are now going to protect the poor con artist. Let us not forget that there are many such items and that we are also obliged here to take care of the citizens of Serbia who are loyal to the executive procedure, that they are compensated. I have to say that this is a pretty populist measure when it is said that the only fixed value of up to 5,000 euros, when it comes to demand up to 5,000 euros, cannot be sold. What are we going to do in a situation if that only immovableity is worth 300,000 euros? Is that in place? Is there a ratio there? Are we jumping a little off this track? That's exactly why I've even responded to the amendment, but when the story comes about the amendments. You know, somebody's got a 300,000, 400,000-euro immovableity, they're being treated like unemployed, they owe him as Greece, and he's enjoying himself, and he's gardening... Well, what's the thinking of his environment for Serbian citizens who see that some fraud, a criminal, who's due and ugly, cannot sell him a real estate, unrelated to any kind of claim. I apologize, the question of social responsibility is something that needs to be put on the scale very high. Therefore, it may be necessary to think in this segment, but there is time, of course, the Serbian Parliament is always open to every correction, so to assess what is the minimum amount of money, the only fixedness when it is not sold. You know, it doesn't even make sense for someone to be in debt, including 4,800 euros for the utility and has an apartment of 150 or 200 square meters in downtown Belgrade. Hypothetically possible. Well, he doesn't have to live in downtown Belgrade, he can live elsewhere. Did he make sure he paid for it himself? He didn't bother to pay and solve his problem. Therefore, we here must forget this kind of demagogy and we all citizens who are involved in the process must be absolutely equal to having them in mind at all times. I'd have some other suggestions that are in place, but it's not directly about these changes and additions here. There are reasonable doubts about the bidding procedures. Why? When it does an analysis in bidding procedures, 85% to 90% of the immovableity is sold at 30% or 40% of its estimated value. Exactly, if I think about something that should be a method to prevent the desire for corrupt behavior, the desire for abuse, the reason for abuse, then, in some future period, it is necessary to think about whether these reductions for both the first bid and the second bidding should lead us to the fact that immovableity can be sold by 30% or directly by contract. I'm more likely to make it 80% and 60%, so you can't sell the immovableity below 60% and the end. That's what we're going to protect and prevent the situation we've had in many courts so far, I'm telling you, I've personally seen it, I'm not going to say which courts are being tried, that in front of the courtroom while even the court has conducted the execution, because I've been a representative of one of the trustees, there's a couple of guys out there who are actively participating and they've done their little business, which is not really small but large at all, taking part in the auctions and in front of the courtroom, convincing the interested bids to enter the courtroom and to participate in the bidding, which are not from that circle. Now someone will say, "What was the court doing?" You know what, I went to that court the second that I went, I called in a security detail, and they're away the second out, I really didn't check what happened next, I think they were even brought in, that they took the data and that the state was processing them afterwards. So we citizens have to take part of our responsibility to protect how the state works. The issue of consumers is something to seriously think about, where to roll it up, put it in some frameworks that are acceptable for the reality of Serbia's income, and make it something that will not stick its eyes out to citizens and cause problems throughout the environment. I don't mind that people who work in this business are responsible for earning money, paying the state tax on what they owe, but I think there's a serious space that can be considered and thought about how to make it possible for the perpetrators to be stimulated to do their job in accordance with the law, without simply being something that will overly irritate and lead us to think about whether the state should have had those and so many taxes, which now end up in some other place instead of exclusively in the state budget, be so much. As far as the executive process itself and the electronic table itself and at all the tables are concerned, I must say that there is one problem that many citizens in the Republic of Serbia have taken money without having the opportunity to object to a solution to the execution. But in one situation, it is solely their irresponsibility because they did not report a change of residence in the MUP, as we are legally required, so the post office was sent one or two times to the address at which they have a neatly registered residence. After that, the conditions for the process to run by the subject, let's say the legal hangs on the advertising board, the deadlines go by and there are no more rights to object, even in those cases where obsolescence is completely evident. Therefore, as citizens, we too have to take care of it, and the state should take care of the next thing, I can certainly guarantee that one number of failed deliveries is due to the irresponsible relationship of workers working in the post office. The serious question is, did they really deliver a note note saying that the shipment should be taken over, and did that paper end up in the hands of the person to whom it should be delivered? Perhaps the solution is that in some future period when it is feasible, anyone who wants to protect himself from such an opportunity can deliver his or her e-mail or phone and that, if any action is initiated by the perpetrators before entering the procedure, he is informed that this is the case. You know, in practice, it's unproven that no one has handed you a proposal for a solution to the execution, the deadlines have expired, etc. It is a small number but it is not negligible and must be worked on. Why is that a problem? Well, our mailmen work from 7:00 to 3:00, people are mostly at work at the time. It's a personal delivery. So, there must be a way to find a way for both the court post office and the post office that is even related to the area of justice to be delivered properly, even at a bad time to ensure the condition that the person who reported the residence neatly lives in that address with absolute certainty can be informed that some procedure is being conducted against him and that he will not run out of deadlines for appeal, complaint and that he can react. One more thing that needs to be taken into account, and that may not be the question for you right now, the issue of interest on executive procedures that have been launched since 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 has not yet been implemented. Some of these cases come to life today when they came into the hands of public executioners, they stood in the archives of courts, most of them were in the archives of the Fourth Court, if I'm not mistaken, if I'm wrong, you said yourself that it was close to about 600,000 cases that were over 10 years old. Now imagine a citizen who, be an executive debtor, he is obliged to pay what he is, and whether he is in debt because of the sloppyness and the unhappiness of the state, not to go in at all who it is, to pay legally tight interest for a period of nine, ten, five, seven, eight years, how many of this will appear. One more thing I want to point out, I'm going back to court practice. In the previous law, it was not clearly defined, when you plead, which is, the largest number of cases in 2016, that you want the court no longer to act, but the public enforcement officer in the case, the court was merely making a decision, some courts, I apologize, were simply making a decision to suspend the proceedings, informing the trustee, but did not send the case to the public enforcement officer, did not even send him notice that he was to take over the case and to continue working in such a case. There's a legal gap left. The parties also did not know that they were obliged when certain courts were in question, in their opinion, to personally go and inform public enforcement officers, to copy cases, to give them solutions. I think it's just a nonsens. It was much simpler for the court to do so on official duty, it was quite clear and logical that the procedure had to go through with it. I think it's something to work on. We're talking here about possible negative procedures that can happen in situations like this when auctions are, when they're public sales. I'm sure this electronic sale in many ways will make it impossible for a good part of the stuff I mentioned as a space for abuse, but I have to tell you that it's not just public contractors, there are certain bankruptcy managers, and it should be considered. I know a lot of bankruptcy managers who agreed with you-you made me come up with a real estate. I also know of a bankruptcy manager who bought a 50-square apartment in France street for 12.5,000 euros. You know, these are some things that are inadmissible. So, it's good, we're talking about public executioners today, but we need to think about these details as well. One more thing to mention, if you allow only one sentence, I don't agree with the restriction, and I'll discuss it more in detail when they're being amended, that when it comes to maintenance, only half of the profits can be seized. You know very well that courts can rule for more children, meaning half the profit, up to 50% to be given on behalf of maintenance. If there's a backlog of three months, a year, two years, if you can only confiscate half of his earnings, those kids never get it, obviously won't or will get it too late. In that sense, I reacted to the amendment asking for it to remain an exception in all of this and for it to be two-thirds of the right to ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59009	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59010	Thank you, Chairman. Certainly unequal court practice is one of the main reasons why we have approached amendments and additions to the law, because it has happened that perpetrators are completely different in the same legal situations. I remind you that in 2011, when there was no right to appeal and where absolutely no court except the first degree, i.e. the basic or commercial court had no contact or contact with the executive cases. It also happened that in the area of the same higher court, courts acted differently, including in the territory of Belgrade itself, the first, second and third basic courts acted differently because there was no mechanism to level their actions. This was why in 2015 we returned the complaint, just one of the reasons, of course, is protection of the rights of the debtors, but in order to level the case law. You mentioned the question of alimony, the collection of maintenance, that it caused different interpretations and court proceedings. The courts took a different view, whether it is in the domain of family relations or not, since the court is solely competent to carry out the enforcement of family relations. However, after some time, the Supreme Court of Cassation took a stand and said that the alimony was in the domain of family relations and that in this situation it was only a competent court. We thought that the alimony charge, or maintenance, was a financial claim that could be carried out by the executioner. They have proved to be extremely effective so far when it comes to this type of collection, and we have explicitly specified that public enforcement officers are responsible for the implementation of the enforcement for the collection of legal maintenance. It is not only children who have exercised their right to the perpetrators, hundreds of thousands of cases are everywhere and workers have exercised their rights before the perpetrators, and when it comes to unpaid earnings, so that it is not just utility companies that are creditors and are not just banks and which are creditors in the executive procedure. The big paper will certainly follow when it comes to selling real estate. I just have to correct you or maybe we didn't get along well, the current provisions predict that you can't go minimally below 50% of the estimated value. What the practice in the surrounding countries has shown is that the introduction of electronic public sales increases the price of immovableity on sales, that it is approximately increasing by 20%, so that is also one of the reasons why we have defined ourselves for this concept, not only the transparency and elimination of all the abuses that exist so far in the sale of immovable property, but precisely to achieve a more realistic price on the market. We thus protect the trustee and, on the other hand, the debtor who, above all, will fulfill his obligation. You didn't mention it, but in previous discussions, it was mentioned that when it comes to the assignment of children, the court controls the perpetrators. I just have to say, for the sake of the citizens, when it comes to the assignment of children, that kind of execution is strictly a court of law. Absolutely public executioners are not involved in this process. Is it about the court or the judge? I think it's the word nomotechnics. Of course, it is known, when the case is used, that it refers to judges and the only terms in which a judge is used, the individual in the law refers to a debate on certain legal medicines, in order to make a clear distinction on who decides on the appeal, the request for the removal of irregularities or complaints. I have to go back to the number of old cases that were in the courts, which you mentioned and what we faced in 2015 when a new law on enforcement and security was passed. By 2010, there was one rule that, that is, the Rules of Procedure prescribed it, when you submit a motion for execution and when the court brings you a solution to the execution, and you as a lawyer know very well that it is only the beating of the press by the court, where no more procedural or executive action is taken in the process, where even the executive debtor does not know that a proposal for execution has been submitted, such cases have been considered completed, which means that hundreds of thousands of cases, which later appeared, have been brought only a solution to the execution, without taking any action. This was used on one side in the 2010 reform when it was intended to show that there are far fewer cases in courts, than they are, in order to determine a smaller number of judges and to justify re-election. However, when we passed a new law in 2015 and when the transitional provision was designed to make it clear whether their case was to remain in court or to be transferred to a public enforcement officer, we realized that there were hundreds of thousands of cases being conducted as completed, and in fact the settlement of the claim absolutely did not take place, because by activating their right, it was the creditors who indicated that there were such large numbers of cases that were not completed, and through statistical data were shown to be resolved. It's one of the number manipulations in courts, and now we finally have a clean situation somewhere that shows that there are still over 600,000 old executives. It is true that you said that the debtors today do not know that such proposals exist, and that is one of the reasons why, in the transitional provisions of these amendments and additions, we have suggested that all those municipal claims of up to 2,000 dinars be suspended, just so that citizens do not come into a situation that due to some minimum debts, which they did not even know they were being sued, is a procedure that would come to a tenfold higher amount due to a tight interest and the time period when the courts did nothing. That's one of the reasons why these items are scheduled to be suspended. Of course, the number of old cases will be reduced and the courts will be disbursed, but I think at this point we had an interest in debtors who don't even know that the proceedings are in motion. Also, a large number of debtors who died in the meantime, and only their successors can't know, nor know that such actions exist in courts. I believe in this way we will remove the injustice of the organ. I do not enter into what reasons and why, but in any case, the lack is on the side of state authorities which did not act within the appropriate time limits, there was no respect for the trial within a reasonable time period, and therefore, on the other hand, you can have the opposite effect that these debtors are suing for the trial within a reasonable period, or because the proceedings are not closed and that the state pays much, much more compensation for the lack of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, than the claims that have communal undertakings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59011	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59012	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Kuburovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that this proposal will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group and I would like to congratulate the Working Group, because the proposal shows that it is very serious and fundamentally accessible to changes and additions. At the time of the adoption of the Law on Implementation and Security in 2015, the Ministry of Justice pledged to follow the way the law was applied and, if there were any shortcomings, to respond, or to approach the preparation of amendments and additions to the law. The objective is, of course, a uniform caselaw, a uniform enforcement practice which, in these proceedings, is one of the elements of equal protection of participants and the exercise of their rights. If we view the executive procedure as a logical follow-up to the litigation process, we can say that it represents the crown of the procedure, that it represents the completion of the procedure, that it represents the possibility that the executive trustee actually achieves, or collects some of his claims. So the Ministry formed a Working Group of more than 20 members, whose task was to get information on the problems that arise in the application of the law, on issues that need to be resolved, and to find solutions that we now see will be an integral part of this proposal ahead of us. It is about the problems that arise in practice under the law. In particular, certain shortcomings in certain members of the law which contain norms which are incomprehensible, contradictory or which are not sufficiently clear have been addressed in this proposal. Almost all members of the Working Group, as well as the professional public, pointed out also representatives of the Executive Chamber and all the proposals they made at the time, were taken into account when drawing up the draft of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security. I expect that in the principle debate we will talk more about enforcement than security, because this topic is more relevant, but in any case we will see what will bring about and debate in particular. Now let's move on to some of the newspapers that were given in this bill. First, the only immobility of a natural person cannot be sold to settle claims from municipal and related services, if the claim is less than 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent at the heart rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of submission of the proposal for execution. In order for citizens who are following this debate to be clear about what procedure it is, it is a procedure of enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the proposal of which is decided by the perpetrator and covers only the monetary claims made on the basis of communal or similar activities. Therefore, this procedure becomes, i.e. it receives the characteristics of the court proceedings only after a statement of objection. The Executive Officer may declare an objection if the authentic document does not apply to him, if the obligation has not arrived, if the obligation has been made or has ceased and if the claim has become obsolete. Second, rules on exemption from enforcement and enforcement restrictions have been amended by increasing the amounts protected from enforcement. I think this is very important, precisely because of citizens who have come into the role of executive debtors in some period of their lives. So, the salary will be able to be charged up to half, instead of up to two-thirds, as it has been so far, pensions up to one-third instead of half and the minimum wager, or minimum earnings, will be able to be charged up to one-quarter. As for pensions, there are now different categories, depending on the level of pensions that are subject to execution in some particular case. Therefore, the execution of a pension that does not exceed the average pension can be carried out up to its quarter, i.e. a pension whose height does not exceed the minimum amount of pension can be carried out up to one tenth. That is exactly how it is done to prevent the execution from jeopardizing the life and basic needs of the executive debtor. In this regard, we can also talk about strengthening the practical application of the principle of proportion, which will prevent the depositation of the assets of the high-value executive to settle the disproportionately small amount of the claim of the executive trustee. Therefore, the public executioner is obliged to take into account the ratio between the level of commitment of the executive debtor and the value of the subject-matter when selecting the means and the subject-matter of the execution. I have to say that this member is reinforced by adding two new attitudes. First, the public executioner is obliged to make sure, under official duty, that the execution is carried out in such a way that the means and subject matter of execution, which is most favourable to the executive debtor, is carried out. This also applies to the means of execution and to the subject of enforcement, and I believe that this information is very important because of citizens. On the other hand, the second position was given the possibility, however, to give the executive debtor the consent to be executed by a specific means, i.e. on a specific subject of enforcement, as in this particular case, it corresponds to the executive debtor himself. This is how the protection of executive debtors was introduced. The debtor shall be prevented from being life-threatening after the execution of the executive procedure in the sense that his assets have been sold to him, i.e. he now lacks much money from this sale, in order to settle an obligation that is disproportionately small. In this way, it will also affect the perpetrators not to go beyond the principle of proportions and not to sell the property of large amounts of executive debtors for debts that are actually too small. What I still want to point out, which will certainly have certain benefits for citizens, but it will also have certain benefits regarding our legal system, this bill introduces solutions that can be considered anti-corruption measures. For example, it is stricter to regulate who cannot be a customer in the execution process. These are now not only public perpetrators, they are both their deputies and assistants and all other persons who work and who are employed by public perpetrators, whether they are acting in a specific case or not. Also, this has been extended to a particular circle of faces, to relatives in the straight line, in the slope line to the fourth degree, to spouses, out-of-marriage partners, adoptors, fosterers, feeders, etc., guardians and protagonists, and you actually see from these provisions of the law how wide the circle of the person who actually prevents from getting any information or from participating in public competition proceedings in the sale of some immovable property. The same provision, I must say, is good as it applies to the person who is employed in the Ministry who will run the portal of electronic public competition and relate to and related persons. So, the thing is that apartments and houses will be sold on electronic sales. Executors will not know who is and how they bid and thus reduce corruption, i.e. much reduction in the space for malfeasance, i.e. practical space for abuses and malfeasances is expected to no longer exist. Of course, a lot of problems have been observed in the conduct of public competitions held in the execution process. The introduction of an electronic public competition, i.e. electronic sales, will solve the problems that create abuses, and on the other hand, the price we talked about earlier on will be greater. In this way, executive debtors will be protected, their assets protected. Furthermore, it is important that the degree of corruption is lower, but executive trusts will also be protected that will be able to collect their claims. I also have to say that a certain number of countries have already introduced e-sales and that the results are positive. For example of good practice, we can take Hungary, in which the forced sale procedure is transparent, information is available to anyone who wants to participate in the procedure. Also, safety and efficiency of the process are higher. The problem that has arisen is that a certain circle of people's bids has actually made a profession. They participate in almost all auctions, with the goal of getting themselves a real estate for as little price as possible, and if someone else wants to participate in this public competition, then they resort to different methods of dissuading these people from public competition. By introducing an e-auction, no one will know all the participants and everyone will be given the same right to participate in public competition throughout the process. Also, information will be available to all of them throughout the process. So e-auction, i.e. e-sales will actually be anonymous, and the second segment of automation of this process will be the introduction of an electronic advertising table, which will actually represent a public register. Finally, to conclude what will enable all the introduction of electronic sales - equal participation of all interested parties, free competition, transparent and fair procedure, equal opportunity for all participants to inform themselves of the procedure and achieve the most favourable price, which in this case is not only good for the executive debtor, but also good for the executive trustee. The fourth thing I want to talk about is multiplying the costs in the execution process when the executive trustee submits against the executive debtor a number of proposals for execution on a number of different basiss. However, when they were able to settle at the same time or when there is separation to the principal, the interest and costs of the executive trustee will have the right to compensation for only one procedure, regardless of whether one or more proceedings were conducted against the executive debtor. Also, in cases where the debtor of the Republic of Serbia or the province or the units of local self-government or any direct or indirect beneficiary of the budget prior to the submission of the proposal for enforcement, the Executive Trustee is obliged to submit a proposal for the execution of the Ministry of Finance no later than 30 days before the submission of the proposal for enforcement. In this way, much is taken into account about the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. it leaves opportunities for voluntary settlement of the obligation. So, finally, let's see why we're passing this law. We bring it in for the debtors, for their protection and security, for the citizens' sake. We bring it in for the trustees, whose payment of claims will be safer and faster. So we're bringing it back for the citizens. We also bring it in because of public enterprises and public-communal companies that are rarely reported as executive creditors in such procedures. We also adopt this law because of a country whose budget will be protected by applying certain standards of duplication of costs and leaving an additional deadline for voluntary reconciliation of obligations. We also see from this proposal the government's intention to improve our legislation and to modernise. Our legal system introduces standards that are already applied in many countries, which means that as a state and as a society, we are ready to move forward, and regardless of being an EU member country, we can say that we have legislation that is so high. Public perpetrators will eventually lead to the disbursement of courts, that they will work more efficiently to reduce the number of cases, and ultimately, depending on the speed of execution, and how much of the rule of law they have achieved, depends on the degree of protection of executive creditors and executive debtors, it also depends on Serbia's many positions on the Duing Business List. For the sake of all this, I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support this bill on Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59013	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59014	Thank you. Dear President, colleague Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important law that has been passed by the Ministry of Justice, therefore, by amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. This Law was adopted on 1 July 2016 and the Working Group that participated in the amendments and additions of this law was strongly, to say, professional, constructive, taken into account all proposals and suggestions in the profession to improve our country's legal system. Dear Minister, Mrs Kuburovic, you will have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group in Voting Day, so we will support amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security. Because of the citizens of Serbia who are following these assembly meetings, we are discussing a very important law today. Here they are given on one hand and revolutionary proposals that have not been in our country's legal system so far, so the law on enforcement and security and amendments and additions to this law will solve very big problems, accumulated problems, both debtors and creditors. So, changes and additions to the law are seen as an answer to the problems of the poorest, but also how trusts to solve their long-term problems. Moreover, greater powers are given to public enforcement authorities, but in addition to the powers and greater control of public enforcement authorities. The Republic of Serbia, among other things, is regulating court proceedings, hence the execution of proceedings and court proceedings. I'm going to explain what papers are making changes to this law. One of the very important newspapers for which Serbian citizens, particularly debtors, are particularly looking forward to the fact that there is no sale of houses and apartments for up to 5,000 euros in dinar property equivalent to municipal services. It is very important to amend and supplement the law, because when we talk about this reciprocity of value it was very scary for certain municipal services and debts to go to a roof over a person’s head. That's what we were talking about when we passed the previous law, and you made this promise, indeed, the honourable minister, and you fulfilled it. Then, we have instead of an amount of two-thirds of the pension or profits the perpetrators will now take up to the most half of the pensions. So the social character, the socially endangered debtors, was also taken into account. So, when it comes to the lowest pensions and salaries and up to a quarter of pensions. For the first time in the enforcement process, maternity benefits have been excluded or, as stated in Article 257 of the Law, Article 257 of the word "addition to children" has been replaced by the words "sacons which regulate the financial support of the family with children", which is a significantly expanded circle of objects that cannot be subject to enforcement. A very significant item. Then we have greater control of public executioners. The sale of apartments and houses can only be made on electronic sales, so the perpetrators will not know who bids. Then, the perpetrators, their employees and associates will not be able to buy real estate in public sales, thus preventing many legal abuses that were in practice and true. Then, we have extended deadlines of limitations to prosecute the executioner and greater disciplinary control of the work. Then, the ban on hoarding costs for debtors and one of perhaps the biggest and revolutionary newspapers is an electronic advertising board, where each citizen of Serbia will be able, based on his home number and his data, to see and to say, changes on the court's advertising board. All of these are very important newspapers in the justice system that are important for all citizens of Serbia, both for debtors and creditors, but also for court practice and not for the accumulation of cases, especially in a long-term period. The debtor to these amendments and the additions to the law will still not have the opportunity to ask for an artificiality in terms of the value of the property, but an appraisal is carried out at the request of the perpetrator, but we have a newspaper that says he will not be able to sell the property below 50% of the estimated value. The Ministry's intention certainly is to prevent abuses in practice and protect both debtors and creditors. Also, if someone points to irregularities, we believe that with greater control of the perpetrator, so why not control the property of the executioner and their close relatives, associates, lawyers, all in order to strengthen the legal regulations and protect the property of the debtor from illegal actions. Since 2011, 2017 public enforcement officers have been registered in Serbia and, of course, we do not need to put all perpetrators in the same basket, but there are those who have been unwittingly doing their job and who have become rich in this way. Of course, that kind of execution should be sanctioned. Since then, only a few cases have been known to have led a disciplinary procedure against the perpetrator or that an executioner has been relieved of his duties. So this law gives less space for abuse. Serbia is a legal state, the number of judicial reform has been implemented and we believe that the paper of this law will protect both debtors and creditors and increase the responsibility of the perpetrators, and thus facilitate judicial practice. We have had very constructive discussions here today and have made very high quality proposals from colleagues from almost all parliamentary groups, so we have all agreed with one, that Serbia as a rule of law absolutely and the Ministry of Justice led by Minister Kuburovic has implemented the number of reforms in the judiciary. We believe that the paper of this law will also affect the regulation of the legal system of a country, our country of Serbia, and thus the EU. So, distinguished Minister Kuburovic, JS MP Dragan Markovica Palma will give you full support in the day to vote in the fight against judicial system reform and the adoption of laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59015	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kuburovic, with members of your ministry, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, the executive procedure may be the most sensitive stage of civil court proceedings. The fact is that most often one party is the one whose judicial decision imposes a kind of obligation is unsatisfactory and does not want to voluntarily fulfill what is imposed, so that it puts the legal system on a major challenge. On the one hand, legal protection must be fully provided for those who pursue their claims by judicial means, and on the other hand, that the basic principles of proportionality are fulfilled by those who do not wish to fulfil their obligations only as necessary, in order to ensure that those obligations are fully met. If this is meant to be, then every legal system that intends to be successful must, through the accuracy and justice of its standards, protect both sides in the process. Our practice so far, as in other areas, has shown a tendency to move solutions from one extreme to another. In some earlier periods, our executive procedure could reasonably be resented for overtrust in the conscience of the debtor and his good will to carry out his own obligations, which may have been logical in some socially and economically stable times. However, with the collapse of socialism and the beginning of transition, such solutions turned out to be a real paradise for those who, in new conditions, would unwittingly do business. Therefore, the new solution was to speed up the whole process and be far more efficient than before, and in this direction, this matter is often regulated by new laws or amendments and additions to the existing one. When it comes to this developmental path, it can be concluded that unfortunately, we have managed to reach such a system that now, however, provides more effective protection to executive creditors, but that the real benefit from it actually has a third party participating in the process, which is public enforcement. Of course, I don't want to generalize, accuse absolutely the whole profession of doing bad work. The fact is that this system has managed to raise the efficiency of the process itself and improve the collection of claims. However, it is also a fact that the number of public executioners does not benefit from a certain legal gap and ignorance of the parties in the process in order to provide themselves with unwitting work and unlawful business with enormous financial benefits, primarily at the expense of executive debtors, but even executive creditors, as it should always be in the light of the legal provisions under which the costs of the Executive Procedure creditors are primarily charged by means which result in forced payment of debtors. The amendments and additions that are ahead of us today are precisely aimed at removing such problems and setting up one balance of rights and obligations for all three parties in the process, and I would mention only some of the most important ones, they will certainly be interested in a number of citizens, in the amendment of Article 394, which is predicted not to be determined by the sale of one immovable property owned by an executive natural person in order to settle the claim, whose principal does not exceed the amount of 5,000 euros. This is a very important provision, which significantly meets the principle of proportionality of execution, because our press lately is full of news where some relatively small amounts of debt sell real estates of relatively high value at prices that have been brought down at the very spirit of the law, and then are further down by unconscious estimates of value. To that end, several amendments, which cover the public sales procedure themselves, should guarantee that the whole process is more transparent through the introduction of mandatory electronic public competition and more precise provisions relating to advertising and the right to participate in these competitions. Also, in Article 258, a number of changes have been made which now determines in a far more flexible way the percentage of earnings that can be seized on the basis of execution. These percentages are now down, so instead of two-thirds of the profits, they will now be able to stop at most one-half. It is particularly important that pensioners, as the most socially endangered category, are provided for the amounts of pensions, which are significantly lower in the case of the minimum pension amounts, up to one tenth of the pension to be taken. On the other hand, these changes also improve the position of creditors, firstly in Article 54, complemented the means on which enforcement can be implemented, which will include the cashing-out of various other property rights, first of all, intellectual property rights, which the existing law did not foresee, and which can be very lucrative from the perspective of creditors, through the acquisition of patent rights, stamps and similar rights which are profitable in modern economic relations. The amendments of several members have been made to improve the position of creditors who have started off the non-judicial mortgage sale, which will no longer have to wait for deadlines to end, but are able to immediately rely on the transfer to the executive procedure, which will make their interests better protected, as well as by speeding up the shortened procedure carried out on the basis of credible documents. At the end and the position of the public enforcement authorities themselves will be more protected through additions in Article 142 which provide for tonne and optical recording of work implementation and enforcement, so that they will have a higher level of protection during the procedure. Dear Madam Minister, the PUPS parliamentary group in voting day will give its support for the adoption of this legislative solution, as well as other proposed legislative acts on the agenda of today's session. However, I would once again like to appeal to you, that within the jurisdiction of your ministry, the Ministry of Justice, not the rights, the justice, in the future, pay far more attention to the control of the functioning of the judicial system, that not only in the functioning of the judicial system, but also in these executioners of chambers, that you have good control and that these categories will not keep each other in constant control, because these categories will not, as well as in lawyers, a lot of lawyers, the Chamber of Lawyers, take action against their fellow, as the perpetrators in the Chamber will not raise each other. That's why you have the authority to exercise control, so I'd like to appeal once again for you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59017	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59018	Thank you, Your Honor. An esteemed minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, from the materials we have received from the bill's proposal, as well as from today's debate, we see that it is really good quality changes and supplements related to the protection of citizens' rights in accordance with the protection of their security, security, and that is why we, as a party of justice and reconciliation and MPs of this party, will support these amendments to the law. Of course, we are very pleased that this law also has a social character, which will protect those most vulnerable, such as this provision of about 5,000 euros for municipal debts, as well as a number of other provisions concerning the protection of those families that achieve existence through, say, child benefits, through different financial incomes of families etc. We think it's very important to protect those most endangered categories of our society. On the other hand, he's also trying to contribute to the law enforcement and the rest of it being really correct. It is very important that today we have heard from the minister herself several times, that the implementation of these legal solutions is controlled, that the minister has several times filed criminal charges. Indeed, we often talk here about implementing legal solutions, because very often in the field, especially in some smaller environments, there are certain abuses. Very often we have talked here about certain parts of the prosecution, some judges who do not do their job in quality, and lately since the perpetrators themselves have appeared, they also abuse their powers and they need constant control of their work and their actions. Of course, I would take the opportunity to say that these laws, like all the other laws of the set of legal laws that we have recently passed, are really good quality, that they go in favour of citizens, ordinary people and protection of human and minority rights, which is extremely important to us, as one political party that comes from the region and members of the national communities of minority communities. I would also take the opportunity to, in some ways, praise and thank the Minister for the Initiative to return to Tutina's primary court and for beginning to issue certificates to the citizens of Tutina, because it was indeed a particularly difficult situation. Because, imagine, one city, whatever, wherever it is, belongs to this state, is in the state system, that ordinary citizens can't even get a simple confirmation because there's no such thing as a basic court or a misdemeanor. That's why we're looking forward to this announcement from the Ministry that they'll be returning to Tutin. I am also taking the opportunity to show satisfaction that from these means of opportunism certain funds have been allocated to these Sanjay municipalities, for help, I think, some educational institutions in Novi Pazar, as well as in this home in Tutin. This is extremely important for restoring the trust of ordinary people in the institutions of the state, especially in these areas such as Tutin, where we have had in continuity, decades, and especially until 2012, that citizens have had only bad experience through the judiciary and through the prosecution, because they have been denied very often both basic human rights and freedoms. We therefore consider these amendments to the law to be of great quality, but we would like to insist on as much as possible, as much control and work as possible of the perpetrators, as well as of all other judicial and judicial cases, especially in areas that do not belong to the central parts of the state, i.e. which are borderline and where such scenarios are very common and very often have negative consequences for the entire population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59019	Thank you. The word is from the MP Rističević Marijan.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're all creditors and debtors and we're all working to collect, and we're less willing to pay. As someone who's been the victim of both bailiffs and private contractors, I hope I'm qualified to say something about it. In 2010, court enforcers were supposed to bring me 150,000 dinars, but these private ones, there in 2014, 2015, before we established the right to appeal, charged, I think, half the personal income for one year and a half, and they charged the debts of Rističević Mirjana. They didn't even hit my pole. The five-day objection I used, the court had five days to resolve that complaint, they never solved it. After one, five, six months, it is a judicial negligence, otherwise, the judge never answered for it, and then after one, six months, they concluded that these debts of Risticevic Mirjana from 2007 still refer to my smallness. So it was an unheard decision by the court, there was a merger of judges and executioners, and it was true who was going to stamp the execution decision, and there I was a double victim. As a double victim, I can appeal to executions that may relate to contributions to pension and disability insurance of farmers and health insurance. I hope that doesn't happen, but by some estimates, we have 238,000 debtors, for PIO insurance farmers. We have 155,657 debtors for health insurance. Debts are of that kind that, for example, somewhere in my judgment, the debt to PIO interest insurance is about 180 billion, only interest is 95 billion. Health insurance debt is about 50 billion, interest is about 24 billion. So I'm talking about the total debt, of which is interest 24, and that's about between 230 and 250 billion dinars. The total number of health insurance debtors was 155,657, and those who are now being provided has only 94,000. So, poverty in the country, people don't even have the right to be treated. Of the 600 agricultural holdings we currently have 94,000 insurance companies, and those who owe have 155,657 carriers and there are others who are members of the agricultural land. So, people need to be treated, and to do so, we need to regulate these debts, in such a way as not to be the prey of possible executions, because about two billion euros, farmers can't pay because, more or less, Serbia, or Serbian villages, have been converted into a collection of smaller and larger nursing homes, and therefore my appeal is not only to the Ministry of Justice, but also to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, to finally find a way to settle these debts that occurred until 30.06.2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59021	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would like citizens such as fellow MP Marijan Risticevic to be in Serbia as little as possible. I need to tell you right now that I've been thinking about what my first sentence is to be when I talk about this bill. I chose to quote Mrs. Jelena Deretic, who said the perpetrators won't be able to go wild anymore. If she said it, that's how it was. It announced that the amendments and additions to this law would follow in last 2018. Now, I'm making a personal point, and I'd like to make sure that the amendments and additions to this law haven't taken place in two years, if the changes are the same as we have the chance to see. There's something else I need to say. At one point I thought you were the minister against justice, because you were complaining about 614.000 unfinished cases, and we don't, we know that's not the case, you're trying to perform that role in the best way possible. But you've already been Minister since 2016, and you've said that 614.000 unexecuted court decisions exist for which the courts are responsible. We may be one of the rarest countries where dualism is involved when it comes to perpetrators. We've got bailiffs, we've got these public ones, known as private perpetrators. Now that some of my colleagues mentioned that the largest number of execution convictions based on claims made by municipal enterprises were true in the structure of the judgments that were to be carried out, i.e. cases carried out. It would've been interesting if you'd run an analysis, if that was possible, and I think it was, maybe not completely, but we certainly could've seen why so many unexploited acts stand for. Is it that the citizens of Serbia are boastful, which they will not, that they do not recognise the laws? Personally, we don't think that's the situation. And right away, you should know that we in the SRS are opposed to this motion for a solution, but we are in favour of respecting all the laws, so since we couldn't intervene otherwise, we have submitted over 80 amendments to this law and we will talk about it when the debate on amendments is concrete about each of our amendments. It would seem to create a confusion that the MPs of the SRS have stepped in to protect the debtors. That is not true, because there are also debtors and creditors and we care about law enforcement, but under one condition that would be normal and that would not be so disastrous and scary for the citizens of Serbia. You yourself could see that no law has caused so many adverse consequences to the citizens of Serbia, such as the 2011 Law, or whose application began in 2012, as well as in 2016. Well, you've told me the reasons why this law is being passed, and I don't think it makes any sense that the law that has 551 members of the law on enforcement and security 551 members is being intervened on 170 members. It's 30.85% to change that law. Is everything okay here? We are, therefore, opposed, because the practice has shown that the perpetrators, their deputies, who have three, assistants and employees, are with them who you say are about 2,000, that they behave arrogantly, are confirmed by you in the ministry. We saw, that's what the citizens tell us. Of course, to a lesser extent, there are those who take their work seriously and do it professionally. And you saw why your remarks from the Chamber were executed, so because they estimate that the division of these items goes unequal, and that I don't tell you and take the time, it's like a customs officer to give you what? To give him one shift is best for them when they have the items to execute. The Astronomeric Awards, which you've left to have, it's not the production of this pen. It's to solve some of the problems of others. I would not fully agree, of course at any point, to underestimate graduate lawyers with a passed judicial exam and some long-term practice but remember when court executions worked with a fourth degree of professional training was even successful. For some, it's not. Who did that successfully? Those who were professional, responsible on the one hand and who possessed the skill of having the least damage suffered by the debtor without the trustee being compensated or to collect his claims as effectively as possible. You have seen this, I hear from fellow Atlagic, not presently, that even academics are very often irresponsible, so he mentions one there, he does not matter to me now and so can people with a passed judicial exam. You've given these people some competitive spirit to make them as much money as possible. They forgot, and they don't think about counterpart Komlenski, they don't think at all about the execution of judgments relating to maintenance compensation. And you say they sell 22 apartments. I think the guy from the 22nd apartment is doing his job in order to settle his obligations on the basis of maintenance contributions, and not regularly, they don't effectively reconcile some others who may not be in the situation, and those who are, and they don't. It would be the last kind of people who could fit in if you made some graduation, some bad people. One who does not participate in the contribution to support, his child, should make a decision, and he will not respect it afterwards. We don't talk where it's objectively not possible, it's something else. Which is why with 308 systematicized places of public enforcement, we would think that if they didn't exist at all they were but I say there are 214, or 217 with three deputies. I don't have the information to pay for it now, but I've talked about it publicly, and it's true that in that first period of application of the law on enforcement and security, no enforcement post was paid up to 50,000 euros, and of course not everyone could. There are a lot of people in Serbia who might be able to pay that much for one job, but not everyone can get in line and that was probably in 2011 or 2012. You and this way, if you don't fill in all the systematicized places, you're favouring certain places, so instead of a smaller number of objects, he's going to have a larger number of objects now, because it's not all filled out. The fact that Drasko Darijević, he is the Chief of Police's Administration, was not yet surprised, and if not, the Chief of Police in Cačka, was punished by 100,000 dinars by the public executioner's solution because he had not assisted the public executioner at the time, it seems to me that some of the debts from the cutting tool factory from Cačka are settled, which I find unacceptable and I don't think it's even in line with our legal standards of intensity. You said it was an unequal practice, so that's why you approach the amendments and additions of this law, I think it's very uniform because they're peeling from both the third and the second court of appeals, the dove of the perpetrators. Very often in your favor, not in favor of the trustees and you saw and we spoke to you, and you know yourself that after the execution of the basic debt, including even interest, it surpassed more than once what was the original debt, including interest, and that is not allowed, it is not possible. Just to remind you, and you know that certain perpetrators, not on their names, of course they're not that naive, have real estate agencies, and then at very cheap amounts, buy those debts, take them into real estate, and then sell them at multiple amounts. That state, this country's legal system, cannot allow, we'll do more when the amendments are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59023	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59024	We've been told what we've done to get rid of that large number of old cases in courts. Well, I'll tell you, when I became Minister in 2016 almost a million and 700 thousand old executive cases were, today there are 614 thousand cases in courts. Although you listened when I had previously explained how such a large number appeared, the reason was the concealment of the real situation in courts, and therefore the cases were divorced as being resolved by making the decision to execute even though no action was conducted at all, nor were those executions calmed down. Whether an execution has been carried out successfully, we can only say if the trustee has exercised his right, if it is charged, or if it has been executed. What is also important and what citizens need to know, when it comes to fees and rewards for the work of public contractors, I will remind you that in 2016, the public enforcement tariff was changed largely in relation to the previous one and there were limited rewards and fees that could be paid by the perpetrators, unlike the one that was brought in 2011 where the limit absolutely did not exist and the compensation was charged depending on the value of the claim. I also responsibly argue that, even after the adoption of this law, the Ministry of Justice will quickly approach the adoption of a new public enforcement tariff in accordance with these amendments and that they will be more favourable when both creditors and debtors are concerned. Many of the costs that now exist in the tariff will no longer exist or will be possible to be tariffd. One reason is that executioners are allowed to obtain the relevant data by electronic means so that they no longer have to provide written information such as the information supplied to the address. So by electronic means they can literally get information from the MUP within two minutes when it comes to address, residence or residence, or the same possibility they have of connecting to the APR when it comes to seats. So there's absolutely no reason for the delivery services to be tariffd. You also mentioned a fine being handed down by a public executioner. I'd like you to show me such a solution because only the court has jurisdiction to impose fines, even if it's been handed over to the police for not providing assistance, it could only be done by the court. So I'd like you to check whether it's a public executioner or a court ruling, just for the reason that the court has jurisdiction. On the other hand, you asked why not fill all the execution sites. One of the reasons is that we are in control, we are in control and we are monitoring which number of cases are in work with public enforcement officers and whether it is necessary to fill in empty spaces or not, especially in smaller places, the question is whether it is economically justified for public enforcement offices to survive. So that's exactly why it's estimated when the competition will be called, that we're so nimble and that someone fills the execution points like you said. I believe there would have been many more competitions scheduled during my term, but only one contest was called months ago and has not yet been completed. For several vacancys, mostly to fill out those where the perpetrators were relieved or resigned, so the deputies are now in those places, so we have a legal obligation to discuss the contest. You mentioned that there are executors who have their real estate agencies, and I would like you to provide me with such data, because as a minister and I have resolved several executives, precisely because other incompatible actions have been involved in addition to the enforcement activities. Such perpetrators are five for now. So whoever has the information that the perpetrator is involved in some other business besides the executive profession can provide information to the Ministry of Justice, and we will certainly act in accordance with the law and determine whether there is an incompatibility and a solution to the resolution of such a person. We don't have that kind of information, and if you do, I'd like you to deliver it to us. Since my assistant can't speak, I have to say it's not true what you stated at the beginning that Jelena Deretic said, since you quote her from the daily newspaper, I don't believe you've heard her say it anywhere. So, here, I can say one more time, given that I've had the chance to read that interview in an integral form, that such a sentence the assistant never said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59025	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59026	Thank you. Since you have mentioned various examples of truly irresponsible behaviour that SNS MPs point to, I wanted to tell you that, unfortunately, these are not the only examples. So, not only do we know it's amazing, but it still comes out of the mouths of both academics, actors, but you know which people who make themselves a top elite, in this people, it's not clear to anyone for what reasons and what right, but we face such situations literally every day, but take it literally every day. I think it happened last night and this morning that this kind of irresponsibility allowed itself by people like Vuk Jeremic, who, of course, does it via Twitter, because it neither advertises nor has any other political activity to that virtual but also here at the home of the Zoran Zivkovic National Assembly. I don't know what's more irresponsible than what those people did. So, to know Serbia's citizens first, they built an incredible structure to, you know, threaten to liquidate the so-called. the leaders, those only declared elites and self-called opposition, and in fact all the leaders of the former regime themselves. But then they built a structure that now someone wants them, imagine that they're liquidating, and then here, through Zoran Zivkovic's mouth, they threatened to retaliate with the same amount of fire or some kind of weapon, they mentioned the weapon. So, in my opinion, it's the culmination of irresponsibility, which is tragically harmful to the citizens of Serbia and which is totally on the line and their hangers, testers and long pipes they've been dealing with before, is an absolute sunflower, a break of all possible political ideas, these people don't know what to say anymore, these people don't know what to do anymore to deserve some kind of media attention, and then, in that way, with the incredible harassment of citizens and the summoning of accidents in this society are trying to become something more important than they are, and how clearly they are to themselves and not to deal with them as being anything different. On the other hand, what is a serious and responsible approach? It is to take care of Serbia's interests. For example, today is Aleksandar Vucic, together with the Hungarian president, opening a common monument to a man who connects the history of Hungary and the history of Serbia, is about the monument of Janos Hunjadi or Sibinjin Janko, found that thanks to the serious and responsible relationship of two leaderships, i.e. two peoples, today our relations, so the relations of the Hungarian and Serbian people, the best in history, but this is not just about the sentimental level, we are now 12th partners in each other's order, we are fifth in a row. Today, Alexander Vucic, receiving a new ambassador of the Russian Federation with him, found that we have the best possible relations in the history of two peoples, this time Russian and Serbian, but outside the strategic partnership, and this is what Mr. Bocan Harchenko, the new ambassador of the Russian Federation, said, today we are also able to talk about energy agreements, about new traffic projects that we are carrying out together on new projects in the sphere of top technologies. It is a serious and responsible relationship, and this, these threats and these incredible structures that allow themselves, such as Jeremics, Zivkovics, these are examples of this irresponsibility. The administration, by the way, is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, when he says -- what they do, it's like barking on the other side of the board, but it's no excuse to cause any accident to this people, and I think it's important to mention it when we talk about irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59027	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59028	Thank you, Chairman. I must, however, correct my esteemed colleague, Happy Perry. Unfortunately, what the 20-year practice has shown me, the basic motive for not paying for the alimony and the reason for not paying for the child's alimony, is that we do not say in many situations and hatred for the former mate who ends up breaking through children who are neither guilty nor in debt and who have denied support. As to who is more prone to it, I absolutely argue that those who have the means to pay it completely insensitively neatly and in good time, because unlike those who have a situation to take care of every dinar, they cannot afford to afford the luxury that those who have the possibility, have the money, have five, twelve, twenty-two, twenty-three apartments, unreported incomes, and the rest, they can afford themselves the luxury of intruding, ultimately paying interest, and even suffering criminal proceedings against them, only to satisfy some of their lowest impulses. So, unfortunately, there are many more of these cases where those who have a child don't pay child support, but those who really can't do it objectively can't do it for that reason, these restrictions that I've proposed to be much smaller, I think there's a whole lot of room and an excuse for it to be so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59029	Thank you. I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59031	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, I will only remind myself of the reform of the judiciary conducted by the DS when it was in power, by passing a set of judicial laws, in December 2008 and so on. By reforming the judiciary in 2009, 2010 and 2011. We have already heard many times in this high house that the executive authority, through the first call of the VSS, contrary to the opinion of the expert public and without the participation of the judiciary, made a decision on the general re-election and choice of judges, as well as on the new network of courts. The judiciary was then severely devastated. Citizens could not have had any confidence in a judicial system that was unable to respect the fundamental rights of its judges and prosecutors. About how then the choice of judges and prosecutors, by measure and criteria of DS, was made in this house, and I wouldn't talk about it, just once again to remind myself that everything would have been funny if it hadn't led to a complete collapse of the judicial system. Judges and prosecutors have been selected without any criteria and standards regarding the assessment of the results of work and criteria on which to assess the expertise, training and dignity of each candidate. Analysis of the work of these new networks of courts and effects, as well as the so-called total. The "reforms" of the judiciary can clearly be determined that civil justice has become inaccessible, that judicial costs have become higher and that the entire judicial system has become more expensive and slower. This is the conclusion next to the domestic professional and overall public and the European Community and professional associations of Europe and the world. The Serbian Progressive Party also noted in the 2012 pre-election campaign the disastrous consequences of such a reform of the judiciary and the need to implement judicial reform and remove and correct mistakes that have been made and will never allow such a thing to happen again. That's what the SNS is doing now. The National Strategy for Justice Reform and Action Plan for the implementation of this reform has been adopted. In line with these strategic documents, a series of laws have been adopted in the field of justice that have led to greater independence of the judiciary, which is primarily seen in the improvement of the transparent work of the VSS in the election and decision-making, evaluation of the expertise and ability of candidates who are first elected. The new network of courts has led justice to become more accessible to citizens, and the costs of the judiciary are reduced. Change and adoption, the process of the law has led to greater efficiency of the judicial system. To that end, a new law on enforcement and security was adopted, which was amended by law, which was adopted in 2011, and which was amended three times in an attempt to speed up the enforcement and security procedure, a series of general institutes removed from the law, such as appeal, suspension of enforcement, etc. The enforcement procedure and the security procedure became simpler, but also problematic, because for speed, a clear course of procedure was sacrificed, leading to uncertainty and parties in the process and the one carrying out the procedure. By applying the Law on Implementation and Security, adopted in 2015, it has detailedly reconstructed all segments that are governed by this law, process and material law, as well as part of the status of perpetrators. These amendments and additions, now in force, of the Law on Implementation and Security, aim to address the problems that have arisen in practice in the application of this law. These amendments remove certain shortcomings in certain members of the law which contained incomplete, insufficiently clear and counterproductive norms. I'll just list one of these norms without getting into the details, because time doesn't allow it, there'll certainly be more words about it when we discuss in particular. This Law amending and supplementing the Law on Implementation and Security has been implemented in the part in which the execution is carried out when, after the acquisition of the right, the owner of the immovable property is changed, a more detailed principle of proportion between the amount of the claim of the executive trustee and the value of the property of the executive debtor which is subject to enforcement. An important paper predicting that the immovableity of the executive debtor cannot be sold to settle claims from municipal and similar services if the claim is less than 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent. It is precise who cannot be a customer in the execution process and thus prevents many of the abuses that are mentioned in this home. It is impossible to multiply the costs of execution according to the same debtor, in the situation that there are several proposals against the same debtor for the execution on several different grounds which could at the same time settle in a single procedure or in the case of separation of claims based on principal, interest, and the costs of the procedure when executive creditors can also achieve their claim in one executive procedure. Changes have been made that will lead to a significant reduction in costs where executives are budget beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government. In particular, the provisions relating to the execution of the sale of the immovable property of the executive debtor are clearly specified provisions on the calling and public competition in the sale of immovable property in the enforcement process where there has also been an abuse. This problem will be addressed by the introduction of an electronic public competition that will prevent any type of abuse when it comes to the prices at which the immovableities in the executive procedure have been sold. Significant changes and additions have been made when it comes to enforcement on the basis of credible documents and a shortened procedure before commercial courts. These amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security will lead to a faster, more efficient and fairer enforcement procedure, a uniforming of the case-law that everything will result in the return of citizens' trust and businesses to the judicial system, which is the SNS programme task headed by President Aleksandr Vukic. In voting day, SNS MPs will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59032	Thanks, buddy. Milletic has a word. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59033	I thank you, Chairman. Honorable Justice Minister, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, I have been elected from the list of Serbian Progressive Party, and, together with my fellow MPs in the PS-NSS-USS Club, we are all together representing the interest of our workers, our peasants, and I am particularly putting an accent as president of the United Peasant Party on the southeast of Serbia, on people living in the country and from the village, on people living in mountainous and mountainous areas, and I, as I have so far, will, by my speech, support this bill with my performance. I think that by passing this law, we will have the possibility that those things that were in the previous law, which were passed in 2016, and have not proved to be good, that we are now, in some way, solving the well-being of our people who have had problems for the previous period, for the public perpetrators, where we are witnessing that there have been a number of negative things. By the way, just now my colleague Marijan Risticevic spoke about people who are users of agricultural pensions, talking about people who paid social and pension insurance through agriculture. I will make the same connection and say that in 1986, for the first time, the Agricultural Pensions Act was passed, that the previous Government changed the law in 2009, and for the first time that law came into force, when the obligation of agricultural insurance companies was one, or the obligation of an agricultural insurance company in one land, which had ownership, after which all the members of the land were obliged and continued to pay social, pension and health insurance through agriculture. Since 2009, a number of such people have been obliged to pay social and pension payments through agriculture. They didn't know themselves that they had taken responsibility and had to pay health and pension insurance for agriculture and to this day all of our agricultural producers had interest on these debts led by the Tax Administration, interest on interest, tight interest, so the debt of our agricultural producers is quite large, not to say. One landlord, for example, from my village, from where I am from, and this is the village of Pluzina, the debtor has close to a million dinars of debt for that pension-inhabited insurance, for health insurance, and that means that all of his property, his house is not worth that much. (President: Time.) Here, I'll finish. So, if it comes to getting those public contractors, we're gonna lose those good hosts. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you on behalf of the citizens of Srlig, because you, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through your Ministry, have provided funds for our preschool facility "Poleletar", where we will build an annex of kindergarten, where we will provide room for our children who live there and should grow. Thanks again. I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59034	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Does he want the word Natasa Mihajlović Vacic? He's not here. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of today's debate, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee said the bill was discussed on the Committee and was unanimously adopted. For the sake of the public, I just want to say that the MPs of the SRS did not attend the session, and if we were, of course, against this proposal, and we have already started to explain and we will explain it to the end. It's very interesting that there are over 170, 180 amendments to the existing law, and that's about the fact that it's obvious that the Ministry is not satisfied with the solution that exists now. Believe me, with this many changes, it's impossible to substantially change this current law. We have also invested a large number of amendments, and above all to draw attention to some of the details of the bill, without ambition for these amendments to be excessively altered for reasons of fundamental difference between us from the SRS and the Government, which is the jurisdiction of enforcement and security. Somewhere in May, we started a campaign for the abolition of public enforcement and shared the citizens of "Great Serbia" in which we wrote in detail what we are looking for and how we think the issue of enforcement should be resolved. Our activists ask some people – well, what do you think, if public executioners are abolished, does this mean that people who are debtors will no longer have to settle their debts? That certainly doesn't mean that. On the contrary, we were never for civil disobedience, we never advocated such a thing, and we think that everyone must atone for both the state and public enterprises and banks, therefore, according to all the creditors. We think that this must be done in a fairer way, first of all, to return the execution to the jurisdiction of the judiciary, to the jurisdiction of the courts, because it is not normal to impose some public thesis, when it comes to notaries, here, perpetrators, that it is better for the citizens, that it is better for the people if this job is done by some 200 or 300 people throughout Serbia and of course they will behave as they wish, and that such serious affairs are removed from the judiciary which is one branch of government, which must be serious. Of course, there were problems when executions were done by courts, but it was, not because there was a problem with the law at the time, but because of the work of certain people. Such problems, unfortunately, we have in all spheres and we can't solve problems by not doing well, so we're going to take it from him and give it to someone else who's going to do it even worse. That's not the answer. The solution is that where this job is supposed to be done, it's arranged systemically and it really works. We are absolutely against the fact that the debtors, regardless of what debt it is, can take away the real estate, especially if it is the only real estate. The state cannot make its people homeless of its people. He doesn't have the right to do that. It is irresponsible, of course, and to be in charge of some large funds that are hard to repay later, but here most executives work to settle bank debts, and must again, at the state level, in co-operation with the National Bank, to sort out this way a little bit and that banks must assume some of the responsibility. Not all responsibility can be on whoever took the loan. Banks must be aware that people can get sick, that people can lose their jobs. You know, different situations happen in people's lives. What is also the problem of this law, now amended, is the fact that the perpetrators, through the perpetrators, are offered the possibility of them choosing the immobility of the debtors from which they will settle their debt. It's just not possible. If someone signed a mortgage on some immovable property and credited that other man with the name of the mortgage, and later realized that he was wrong, let's say, it was estimated that someone's house was worth 10,000 euros and on behalf of that bank gave him credit, and when it came to the fact that the loan couldn't be settled, the bank said -- we didn't get a good estimate, that house wasn't worth 10,000 euros, but he has another one worth 10,000 euros, so we'll take it. It's just not possible. The mortgage can be charged exclusively from the property on which the mortgage is entered. We also think that what Kori Udovici used to be, when she was a minister in that previous government, but apparently she was good for you, too, so she was with you, who was saying - who couldn't pay for electricity to sell a house or an apartment. It's really a crime. You, the state, we all, the competent authorities, have to enable if someone has only one immovableity, per household member, we wrote through the amendments that each should be left at least 10 m2 per household member, and we even think that it might be 12, in some countries it is up to 15 m2. So that's how we're gonna protect these families from staying on the street. Whoever is obliged to return, if there is no other option, another immobility, let him repay his debt for the rest of his life, until the end of his working life, and after his retirement, and at least the biggest part will be returned, and not now that the trustee is only satisfied, let us immediately sell his house, and there awaits the one who buys it, and for a debt of 5,000 euros, the house is sold for 20,000, and it is worth 50,000 euros and the next day it is sold for real value, and then the profit is shared between all the participants in that chain. That's the bank clerk, that's the contractor, that's the fake buyer. And this isn't a story to be heard, this is the living truth. We are in this, I repeat, showing again the issue of "Great Serbia", a special edition where we announce the abolition of the perpetrators, cited many examples, concrete ones. We have here, too, people bring us from the field, they send us, they call on the phone, they send e-mails, a lot of examples, too, that we prove we're right, and that this is not a good way to settle debts. Of course, all these examples, as long as you allow us to do our best when we talk about the law in detail. What we want to stress is that the SRS, you have heard from our authorised representative, that we have already collected more than 100,000 signatures of citizens who agree with us that we need to abolish public enforcement and return the work of enforcement and security to the jurisdiction of the courts, we will be preparing for a regular session, that is, we have almost finished, a serious bill which will certainly be sent by the Assembly and the Government for consideration, and in this proposal we will return, that is, the return of execution to the jurisdiction of the courts. This proposal will be fully secure and in accordance with the Constitution and the just, and will respect basic human rights, and will respect both the trustees' rights and the rights of the debtors. Of course, then we will be prepared for every suggestion both by the ministry and by our colleagues in power, and we expect that we will finally solve this big problem then and in this way. Believe me, Mrs. Kuburovic, I suppose you know that, because simply all people know it, the perpetrators are scared and trembling, it's something that citizens are so afraid of, and today, I think, there is no institution in Serbia that they are more disgusted with and more angry with citizens than public perpetrators are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59036	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59037	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to hear that there are a large number of amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Security and that this shows that the 2015 law is not good. I will remind you that and when this law was adopted in 2016 when it was started to apply we were going to follow the implementation and we will try to address all the shortcomings that arise in practice. The reason why we're changing the law is unequal court practice, unequal treatment and courts and public executioners. It is not only criticism on the part of public perpetrators, the criticism is on the side of the courts, because it is the public perpetrators who act on the decisions taken by the courts. The execution is carried out by public executioners, but they do so under the supervision of the courts. The decision to execute shall be brought by a court rather than by a public enforcer in most cases. The decisions taken by public enforcement authorities shall be subject to the right of legal remedies, whether they are a complaint, a complaint or a request for the removal of irregularities, and all those decisions, i.e. the legality of those decisions, shall be reviewed by the courts. So first of all, the supervision is done by the courts and it is not entirely excluded from the system of execution from the courts. The practice in almost all European countries is that the non-judgment of matter comes out of courts to relieve and deal with only and exclusively with judicial matter and that is why new judicial professions were introduced – public notebooks, public executioners. Public notebooks that relieved courts in large part of administrative affairs primarily referred to contract certification. You're saying that public executioners should be abolished and everything returned to the jurisdiction of the courts. The courts absolutely do not have the capacity to carry out the execution. You cannot solve this problem by increasing the number of courts because today's population in the Republic of Serbia and the number of judges we have our average is much higher than the average in European countries, so it remains inadmissible to keep increasing the number of judges in order to solve the old cases. Why did the execution system change? Why were public executioners introduced? First of all, the European Court of Human Rights decisions, where decisions have been taken against the Republic of Serbia precisely because of a lack of reasonable time for trial because the trial includes within a reasonable period of time and litigation and the procedure and the maximum number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights concerned unpaid workers' earnings in restructured enterprises. So we had dozens, hundreds of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights where very high obligations of the Republic of Serbia were established precisely because of the lack of respect for the trial within a reasonable period and long duration and failure to implement decisions in the executive procedure. You mentioned that on the basis of a publishing statement or mortgage, the trustee has the right to choose, or to change the subject of execution, but I will only point out to you in Article 21 of the amendment and the addition of the law, where it explicitly states that, on the basis of executive statements, which are currently relating to the mortgage contract, the publishing statement, the copy of the register, the enforcement can only be carried out on the subject of the law. So there is no possibility of changing the subject of execution, but exactly what the right is at and based on and on that case is being executed and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59038	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59039	And the questions – how will mistakes be removed in the already done executions? How will mistakes be removed from people who have lost their dwellings because of the abuse of public executioners? I suppose you know that in the meantime, some people who had good connections, above all, were party people who managed to buy their apartments, which of course was not in accordance with the law. European practice is simply something that we do not accept not as good practice when it comes to good practice, but we must take into account the specificities of our country, this society, this people. You know well how high-level corruption is in Serbia, and these laws only increase more. You say - you have received objections and how many disputes are being held before the European Court of Justice and how many disputes Serbia has lost. Then we have to change everything in court for a reasonable period. For us in the court's mobing dispute lasts at least seven years. Work dispute for at least five years. Twenty years' worth of litigation. Does that mean we have to get all this out of the courts so we don't know exactly who to solve it for? I'm telling you again from the beginning. You cannot go through a line of less resistance, but you must systematically resolve the situation in the judiciary. In the first part, when you spoke, you mentioned that old law that predicted that if someone didn't pay the debt to go to prison and you called it debt slavery. Debt slavery is every debt. It's not debt slavery just going to jail. And if you ask anyone who has a debt to go to jail before leaving their family's apartment or selling their apartment, I'm afraid they'd rather go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59040	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59041	Dear Chairman, Mrs Kuburovic, I have read very carefully the proposed amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security and in the day for voting I will support these changes. First of all, if the original text of the law was taken into account in 2011, when we had no conditions for the perpetrators, the perpetrators became people without a legal examination, and we also had a situation when, in 2011, the perpetrators began to work, the Serbian Progressive Party was not in power at the time, when some perpetrators were being made of the unspeakable wealth. I think that's why we have such an aversion in society about public executioners. You had a situation, for example, that the director of a public enterprise from the Democratic Party, the former regime, I apologize, and then hires one executive to submit proposals for execution against the debtors, where the perpetrators are so rich that you can relieve them of their concerns and continue to do so, since they were executors who were similar, party perpetrators. That's changed. But there is still this aversion in the people against the perpetrators. I'm not even gonna talk about perpetrators here, I'm not their lawyer. I think there are all kinds of them. But I also believe that the enforcement procedure carried out by the perpetrators is much, much better and more effective than the judicial procedure we had. I will, in part, agree with what the esteemed colleague of Radeta said, but whoever pleases you, don't return the execution procedure to the courts. It was a disaster what the judges were doing, because the judges were mostly acting like the executive department was a criminal ward, and then you were waiting for a solution to the execution or public sale procedure or a list of moving things after five or six years, because these items are in drawers, collecting dust and no one is going to take them into work. No judge wanted to commit to the executions. There was a couple, I have to admit, to fence myself from it, but, we've had judicial executives, judicial decisions that the judge should only have acted on, so there's nothing to think about, there's no judge to consider whether or not that verdict is right, there's a verdict on the basis of which the trustee asks for the execution to be carried out. The judge says I don't understand the verdict. And then he's standing there, he won't make an appointment, so he's consulting with another colleague, so it's standing somewhere in the drawer again. You, in this way, sent the execution procedure to work by the perpetrators, helped the trustees. As a lawyer, I really think that the executions that were carried out by the courts were scandalous executions. And day-to-day, there are solutions to the execution of the courts. Here's an example of court practice -- I've been waiting six months for a solution to be executed by a Belgrade judge, because the judge won't come up with a solution to the execution, he doesn't want to. And there's no reason, there's everything on which to make a decision. That's why I don't want to consider the possibility that executions continue to work in courts, as proposed by colleagues from the SRS. Dear colleague Seselj said that the perpetrators do not bring anything good to the citizens. I think he's wrong. Apparently, he never had an executive procedure. If he had conducted an executive procedure, if he had been a trustee, he would have known how much well-being there was in the executioner, who was still trying to collect that debt from the debtor. And the story about it, selling apartments for miserable debts, let's get out of demagogy and get out of populist solutions. If a man knows he has a 10,000-euro debt and someone is going to sell him a 100,000-euro real estate, for small money, as you say, so let him sell that property himself. Let him sell it for more money, so that he can get paid to the one he has to pay, pay back the debt, and buy less real estate. He doesn't have to live on Santa or the Wizard. He can live in Grochny, too. Or Svrlig, as counterpart Miletic says. When we talk about these various associations that are expensive and prevent executions from being carried out, people, the execution does not stop, and these costs fall on the burden of the debtors, because the execution is not done. The debtor will again pay for that outing on the ground, that attempt, the locksmith, etc. It'll all be paid by the debtor. He won't pay for it. These associations do donkey service to debtors. We talk about debtors all the time. What about the trustees? We're talking about public enterprises, public utility companies and debts. Well, these public utility companies and public enterprises, in order to provide their services, must be charged. Like when you go to the store to pay for the bread, you have to pay for the electricity. If you don't want to pay for the electricity, of course someone will sue you. And you sue when you don't get paid. None of you will work for free. I really think that the executions should continue to be done by the perpetrators, that these provisions that you have proposed are good. The law speaks of increased control of the work of the perpetrators, and I believe that they need to be sanctioned when they have the slightest error, because they are entrusted with some powers and must be sanctioned in the slightest error and be resolved. So, you don't need this disciplinary procedure, as one of your colleagues said, as well as a lawyer, or a doctor, when the chamber decides, so it's a cover-up, no, it needs to be resolved immediately, at the slightest error. The most mistakes were about selling real estate, and this law, I hope, will make it more effective about all of that. I really think that this provision, all the time we're talking about proportionality, I prefer to talk about efficiency. The executive procedure must be effective. It can't take five, seven, eight years. And there can be no reform of the judiciary that affects the court's execution quickly. He'll never be able to carry it out fast. And day and day we have problems, as the colleague said, and with work disputes and family disputes, it's much better than it was, but with the executions we won't do anything. We've had examples from court practice, where you have a confidant, a legal person who submits a motion to execute, and waiting for that execution to end, the trustee goes bankrupt. One company, employees, is left out of work, because the procedure has not been implemented until the end, in the way it should have been done, and this is to be effectively implemented. So, as soon as the trustee gets paid. And yes, with all the interest that belongs to him. Because if someone is obliged, it's due from a certain date. So his interest is his. I wanted to mention something about the execution, just to see. Yeah, we had all kinds of ways of getting some firms and banks to go bankrupt, like the former regime was doing subtlely. We will remember "Vojvodine Development Bank", the DS took a 242m-dollar loan, and the loan was originally not provided with funds, mortgages, stocks. Then, when the DS took that money, and she saw that she was still going to lose in the election, they better give those stocks later and they haven't settled their debts again, so the bank went bankrupt, so the bank started the executive procedure. The executive procedure ended with a certain "Multicom Group" taking over the debt. It's the company of Dragan Gilas. If anyone asks how much DS costs, DS costs 242 million dinars. For that money, Dragan Gilas bought DS. But that's how the banks were destroyed, the public enterprises, by taking the perpetrators who were similar to them, who pulled the money, who gave that money back to the DS, and that's why we now have a big problem to convince the people that the perpetrators aren't black sheep in our judicial system. This is a simple thing. You have a trustee, you have a debtor. The trustee wants to collect his debt and there's no more talking about it. I only have a real grudge, this law is more socially responsible, but around this limit of 5,000 euros. I don't know how that limit came about exactly 5,000 euros, but it says, I'll paraphrase a member of the law -- that it can't be sold real estate if it's a public utility debt of up to 5,000 euros. Now, I'm confused. Does this mean that if someone has a field for 2,000 euros, it can't be sold, but if they have a car of 10,000 euros, it can be sold for up to 5,000 euros? That's the only one I have a problem with. For what reason, then, are not all the values the debtor owes up to 5,000 euros excluded, and how did we get to that 5,000 euros? Anyway, in the voting day, I'm going to support this bill, because I think it improves the original law. I hope we can talk about some new law soon, because this is a lot of changes. I know there's not 50% to pass a new law, but there's a new law to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59042	Thank you, Mrs. Pilla. The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59043	Thank you. Just one clarification, because there is a lot of controversy about the 5,000-euro limit, as we have reached that amount. One of the reasons is because the average profit was seen on an annual basis. When you calculate 12 months times the average profit, that's about that amount. On the other hand, I don't need to forget, I'm back, I might be boring, but we're still taking care of the older cases that are in the courts. Over 600,000 old objects that are mainly objects of municipal activity. If they move to the authority of the perpetrator, with a tight interest on certain amounts, it is very possible that this amount is 5,000 euros and that the debtors almost do not know that there is a proposal for execution. They didn't know there was a trial against them, they couldn't respond in time, they couldn't pay for voluntary claims. Exactly, so they don't find themselves in a situation where they didn't even know they were running a lawsuit to sell real estate. That's one of the reasons why we've just defined ourselves for this amount. So, on the one hand, the average profit on the annual level and, on the other hand, we had in mind the old cases that are in the courts and the claims that are at stake. With heavy interest charged for a period of more than 10 years, we can really get to this amount, which is just about 5,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59044	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59045	How cruel this was before, really. Just when we thought it wasn't worse than Corra Widowsky, today what we didn't hear, Malta doesn't, interrupts the courts for the perpetrators and the debtors. It's just amazing. Says a colleague that the courts were the penitentiary departments, and then he says they didn't do anything, that the objects were standing in the drawer. Well, the penitentiary departments are now the perpetrators, not the one who didn't perform. Of course, we don't justify that courts shouldn't execute. On the contrary, it should and should be done. But this is really just amazing. According to a colleague, there are examples from practice that courts have not worked or worked and pulled cases, etc. How many examples do we have in practice when it comes to perpetrators? Never in court did a judge's son buy an apartment during execution, and the executioner did. It may be in the courts, but here it is, and if it is, but it's easier to solve the issue with courts and judges than with perpetrators. The perpetrators anchor themselves where they are, take the money, save God's size, and do as they wish. They decide for themselves, you'll see, we'll talk about examples of how much, compared to debt, how much eventually comes out with their expenses, etc., taxes, I don't know what. The 5,000 euros, the question of how it happened. It is not a question of how this happened, but of how you were deceived, Mrs. Kuburovic, the perpetrators, this Chamber, I suppose, have built something like this into the law at all. Because, you know, 5,000 euros in debt to a public utility is impossible without obsolescence, except for some big systems, I'm talking about people, families, households. So, they deliberately let them come up to 5.001 euros to sell them houses and what did they say, I'm finishing up, my colleague, as my colleague said -- well, what's the problem, if someone owes 10,000 euros, they need to know they're going to sell him a 100,000-euro house? It just scares away.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59046	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Now the line to the replica has Biljana Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59047	No, we didn't understand each other. I said the courts accepted. So, the judges who did the executions felt that they were there, so they were called "punishment departments", that they were being punished for the executions. There have been many cases that when they do not know in court what they will do with certain judges, they will be put to execution, he says, "Let there be no error in it." So that's one thing. Second, I didn't say if there's a debt of 10,000 euros to sell him a house, but if a man knows he has a debt, if he knows that he's going to rob his house or go to someone else, if he doesn't have any other means of execution, he can take it, so let him sell it, pay what he needs to pay. So he owes, let him pay. As for these irregularities you listed, yes, it was true and there were. But now it's being introduced by this law and there's going to be an e-out, there won't be a chance for such things anymore, because you mentioned that the son I don't know who bought the apartment. Well, we also have in court that the son of a judge becomes a judge and various kinds of nepotism, so neither is the court a sacred letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59048	Thank you, Mrs. Pilla. The right to replica has Aleksandar Seselj, then Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59049	By listening to a recent discussion, we might think that the public executioners are coming to our meeting and being appointed as humanitarian workers, that they are not doing it at all because of their own interest, which is obvious and enormous and not proportionate to anything they are engaged in, but are doing it to improve the efficiency of the collection of commitments. So, demagogy is that we're talking about kidnapped and burned apartments and evicted families, etc. It's like there's no such thing, and in 2017, 3.736 emigrations. It's impossible and no one can say there's no other way to charge the debt. One thing is a stockpile of real estate, and another thing is a payment from the property of debts often and without any notice. We can pretend it's all great now, now that we've had 700 thousand objects, now we've got 500 thousand objects, it's shrinking, but it's not like that. The basic thing, the basic characteristic of every bonding relationship should be the equivalent of the prescribing, not someone who suffers for the rest of his life if something like this happens to him, because he didn't pay off the debt in time. It's not demagogy what we're saying, everyone has to pay what's due, but not at the cost of violating civil, human, especially procedural rights. The courts were overcrowded and what not, there was nothing to be done, there was waiting, no one wanted to do it. He was supposed to solve the problem here, not introduce a private person who would be rich in someone else's accident and then brag about how much better our statistics are, because we have a lot less unfinished cases. Improve the efficiency of the court, i.e. The court perpetrators, it could have been done, we've cited a few examples today as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59050	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59051	Thank you. Just one explanation. When it is said whether it is possible for the municipal debt to reach 5,000 euros and as far as possible. We have practice and the analysis of the case has shown that this is happening, too, that you have a debt for 500, 600 thousand dinars, which were created and based on the reprogramme that should then be implemented. So nothing was done by heart. On the other hand, there are those utility companies that submitted months after month proposals for execution against certain debtors, there is no statute of limitations. As soon as you submitted a proposal to execute, the current of limitations was interrupted. Finally, there is a merger of all these requirements, so that there is a possibility that you owe this amount for the municipal service. In addition to utility services there are related activities, so the fees for using mobile phones are very often 200, 300 thousand dinars for which someone should also pay the service. And it is often mentioned here that there have been cases that the perpetrator bought an apartment in the public sale of immovable property. According to the applicable provisions of the law, the executioner could not participate in the purchase, which was not a ban on other perpetrators. However, amendments to and additions to the law in Article 169 are now envisaged that absolutely none of the perpetrators, whether or not they carry out enforcement, can be buyers during the public sale of immovable property, that they cannot be their relatives, and that restriction also applies to administrators within the justice ministry who are about to operate the electronic sales system of public immovableities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59052	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59053	You, Mrs. Kuburovic, are talking about some ideal condition that you yourself know is not so. You mentioned that certain disciplinary proceedings were conducted against some perpetrators, etc. We have never seen who these perpetrators are, which is why discipline proceedings were conducted and how they responded in these disciplinary proceedings. And only how many there were who were supposed to be responding, and they weren't answering, do you know that's how it is? Do you know, for example, in 2014, when we talk about these debts of municipal enterprises, you explain how a 5,000-euro debt can be made. It's hard, believe me. It can be a small number of people, it's not a dispute, but we're talking about a large number of citizens, households, who pay electricity three, four thousand dinars and have no money and run out of work and choose between buying children bread or books and electricity, choosing bread and books, and losing power, shutting them down after two three months. That's our reality. This is our reality, not a 5,000-euro debt that I repeat, is deliberately real. Do you know, in 2014, that Electrodistribution once executed, the woman Isidora Rankovic, gave 18,000 items, something over 18,000. She remains their enforcer, and then received 79m euros as an advance. Her husband was a member of the DS and then moved to the SNS to provide the woman with this job. We're saying something that's real. You may not know these details, but that's why we're here to tell you, but let's just say, first of all, that's why we're against public executioners and that's why we think that the court as an institution is a greater guarantee of fair and fair work than a group of a few hundred perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59054	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has the minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59055	The conduct of a disciplinary procedure within the Ministry of Justice is very public. At the Justice Ministry site you have published absolutely all the decisions made by the Disciplinary Commission and, as I said at the beginning of the debate, I personally submitted 16 proposals for the launch of disciplinary proceedings against public perpetrators, based on the supervision and situation we encountered in the offices carried out by the Ministry of Justice, which ended mainly with the adoption of disciplinary penalties, whether it was a fine, a warning, and there were procedures that ended with a permanent ban on the exercise of activity, which led to the resolution of the perpetrators. You are again talking about 5,000 euros and that the reality is that citizens mostly owe 3,000 or 4,000 dinars, but this very amount includes these citizens, mostly those citizens, just so that they don't come to such low amounts to sell real estate in order to charge the cost of municipal work. So, if you're interested, certainly on the Justice Department's website, you can see absolutely any decision by the Disciplinary Commission, why the proceedings are conducted, which are offences, that is, committed by the perpetrators. As I filed disciplinary reports, I also filed criminal charges against individuals. You have also cited an example of an executor who received tens of thousands of items from a municipal enterprise, this was also the reason why a provision was abolished where an executive trustee could choose the subject to whom he would assign when it comes to the collection of municipal claims, a flat distribution against which many today is being imposed, but that is exactly one of the anti-corruption measures introduced in 2014, and that even distribution is foreseen by both the transitional and final provisions of the Law on enforcement and security relating to the old cases which are in courts and which the Presidents of the courts will evenly assign to the perpetrators from their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59056	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. We're going back to work. The word is Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's remind ourselves that in 1978 there was a Law on the Executive Procedure. With the arrival of Serbian radicals in the federal government, I, as federal minister, submitted a proposal not to amend the law in additions and amendments, but to go to the adoption of a new law on the executive procedure. The law had a total of 265 members to write a new Act on Executive Procedure with 365 members in 2004. In 2015, however, a law on enforcement, which has 551 members, was also passed. What is important is that the SRS and SRS MPs want to point out that at the time of the adoption of the Law on Implementation of 2000, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also voted here, was the Federal MP, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, and this law was then supported by the President of the Republic, while at the same time being the MP of the federal parliament, both Natasa Jovanovic and Filip Stojanovic. Therefore, at that time we participated in the adoption of the law, so on behalf of the federal government, I gave an explanation and the professional public gave a positive assessment of the law, because it was. After a little over two decades of application of the Law on Implementation of 1978, at the end of June 2000 a new Law on the Executive Procedure was adopted, a legal text whose adoption was an extremely significant real event in the country's legal life, with a definitively round system of comprehensive protection in the old Yugoslavia at the time, as regulations were to be amended. The professional public gave a special assessment of the law because some provisions that did not have an effect or results were excluded from the previous law. Why? Which we were then prevented from being able to execute for 10 years. Mrs. Kuburovic, that the courts are valuable, are not. I'll remind you, when it comes to litigation, when it comes to the state, that it pays some damage to a natural person or a citizen, there's a country slow, but when a citizen has to pay the state, there's a court that's efficient and fast. I'll give you just one example, from Nikojevic, from the village of Uzic. A soldier died 10 days before the military deadline ended. The parents filed a lawsuit for the compensation of immaterial damage and the lawsuit lasted 34 years. This tells you of the great importance that you have, and you have the right to, as minister of justice, do whatever is possible to bring order and justice, but our judiciary is one of the guarantees of greater than the perpetrators. The provisions of Article 1 shall apply. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that the Republic of Serbia is based on the rule of law, human and minority rights and membership of European principles and values. While Article 2 provides that the rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and that it rests on inalienable human rights, which is also the right to a fair trial, is covered by the provisions of Article 32(1). The Constitution, the right to equal protection before the court, is guaranteed by the provision of Article 36(1). The Constitution. Right to prohibit discrimination, the right guaranteed by Article 21(1) and (2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, Serbia should act so that it must take care of poor citizens. From Romans to today, the most inhumane attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia had DS and DOS. When they came to power in 2000, until the arrival of the DOS, European democracy in Serbia was solidarity with poor and powerless citizens. New Western democratic values have endangered our poor citizens, workers, farmers and agricultural producers, those citizens who are left alone, left without help and solidarity. It means if someone's left alone, and he owes for the utility, and there's nothing else, but there's some real estate, what's left of it, to get out of one of the garages. So, a citizen, or citizen of 90 years. What the state should do, I would suggest, a social fund, and this social fund to form, to take away property from tycoons that robbed the state of Serbia and robbed workers, and to rob citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To be sold, these companies, form a fund and help those poor who cannot pay for the utility. As for the provisions of Article 204. Madam Minister, I apologize, I was with a team who worked at the time, and indeed they did, Mr. Cosic worked at the Justice Ministry at the time, and he knows that they were very good cases, but I know that the Serbian Justice Ministry was involved, because I asked for their consultations and their consent and gave full support at the time. What Article 204 provides for is an action that only a debtor can carry out, you know, and we've handled these provisions. You know why? Because in practice you have cases of not paying your parents to support your children. Therefore, if ten times after court decisions does not pay child support, then ladies and gentlemen and Madam Ministers, fines are imposed, and when fines are imposed and a new solution is made, and if they do not carry out that fine, they do not pay, then they are replaced with fines in prison, as provided for in many other procedures and in other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59058	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, thank you very much. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59059	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I wanted to react because Alexander Wolfie was mentioned. What is important today, when we are discussing in the principle of the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Implementation and Security, it is that we are talking about the effects, the positive effects, expected tomorrow, when the law is applied. It's kind of normal that if we look at the period since 1978, so here, today is 2019, it's kind of normal that the proposals have more and more members, if we're going to meet more modern legislation, or different legislation, compared to what was in 1978. In doing so, I have to fence myself, not say that the legislation was bad at the time, there are just some things that are more modern and now exist in our country, which must be regulated legally. So I wouldn't say that's an issue that's relevant in terms of whether this bill is good or not. The context in which Aleksandar Vukic was mentioned must be taken care of by the poor citizens, I absolutely agree with it, it is very good that Alexander Vukic was mentioned in this context, because we all know that both the poor and those citizens who had the money took care of until 2012. Since 2012, thanks to Alexander Vukic, it has been a completely different situation. You can see that through this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59060	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59061	Thank you. Just a small contribution to the discussion, a distinguished colleague, on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, will differ from those of my fellow Members. Somehow we should talk a little bit about what ordinary citizens want to hear about us as representatives here in parliament. There is no need to just praise the professions and proposals of laws or laws that have already come into force and have not exactly resisted the challenge of time, so now we have to have a greater number of amendments and additions, because it is not the essence of our discussions here in the debate that we only praise the promoter but regardless of what we will support this proposal on amendments and additions to the current law we should do everything possible to make these proposals much better. We heard the discussion of my esteemed colleague Biljana Pantic Pilje and so, her position was, only on the positive effects of the applicable law, and our role is to talk about negative effects and it is not a big deal nor a concern, but her attitude was very liberal. I don't belong to that political option that has such a liberal attitude as my distinguished colleague has, her profession is a lawyer's profession. Apparently, in his cases, he represents the most trustees, and so do we, who would be here verbally, not a lawyer and I don't have a lawyer's office, who would be here to represent the rights of the debtor. So when one law should have effect on the two sides of this process, every honor to those who work hard and should trust them to exercise their right, because debt is a debt. They weren't so bad courts when they dealt with executions even then how not even now the fantastic perpetrators that we've introduced with the new law. So the truth is halfway around. Neither they were so bad, nor everything in our past is so terrible, nor is all this modern and new fantastic now. We both have our shortcomings. Of course, it's waited an extremely long time for the execution of debts, but we can't say that speed is always a virtue, especially in such procedures. Are we gonna change? Well, we're all aware that once the wheel goes forward there's no going back and probably the courts will never have the function of the executioner again. Since we are not professionals here, experts work at the ministry and experts have passed various public debates. We're ordinary people here who all know some stories from our community, which have had negative experiences with the perpetrators. It's ordinary people and human stories, it's life. What we often forget when we make laws or when we spend our lives is something else than a dead letter on paper and practice. With these changes and additions you certainly use and try to express yourself in the law, and this social dimension that is very important when we pass such radical laws, especially in the area of real estate sales. When it comes to real estate as something, as a means of execution to settle some kind of debt our task, here all MPs, to look at that other dimension that the trustee may get his debt, often part of the debt, and thanks to the skilled games of the perpetrators and creditors, and the debt is not painfully reconciled. And then we have a problem, we have people on the streets, and on the other side of the debt, and in a strange way and increased, because there are enormous costs for the executioner, there are huge interest rates that often, believe it or not, eat that basic debt. If we are referring to the president of the state, that we must always think about poor citizens, here, this is one of the laws where we really have the space to think about debtors who are most often poor citizens, those who have certain means, rarely when they fall into debt or find ways to agree with their creditors, and also with banks how to reprogramme them and always some medium layer that today is liberating, a little stronger lately and poor layers of citizens get killed in these procedures. Executors, I hope that the negative picture that most of us here have about the perpetrators isn't something that's really the case. But the perpetrators who first took advantage of the opportunity to become perpetrators after the adoption and entry into force of the Law on Implementation and Security have indeed become a special layer of people, extremely wealthy people and who have continued to develop their jobs. I understand them, but they found opportunities to have executive offices all over Serbia, one and the same. So that's one network, a business network of executives all over the country. Somehow, they joined together, found common language with individual lawyers, who have hundreds of employees, who do nothing but phone but try to execute bank claims. Their profession doesn't exist at all. They do what banks should do. They're making a phone call for a small fee, from law firm holders, and they're harassing people and covering banks. Third, which is in the network and the contractors today also have notary offices in their system, so it really became a profitable job. I take off my hat, because my brain never works in that direction, I can't think of any luxuriant work, so that all I do together is a concert equal to "Coca-coli" or "The Oil Industry of Serbia", because really, without ridicule, according to the prestigious parts of Belgrade today, apartments are bought by perpetrators, according to my information and public notebooks. It is now a special strain of people or a layer of people in our society who have suddenly become rich. So I'm not a liberal, I'm a folk, I'm somewhere in the middle. I think it's ripe time to start working on a new law of execution. It simply shows that practice has shown us that many things need to be corrected in law. When much needs to be fixed, it actually takes a new bill to be passed. Don't think I'm against execution. It's just a matter of work. The executions have to be done. It's just a matter of way. How to do that without citizens being under the impression that the perpetrators are on the other side of the law. I guess most of them aren't as involved as these biggest offices that know me almost every major city, all of them. We'll talk about the amendments. The attention is really focused on these changes and additions, if I'm not mistaken, over 130 amendments. In this series of amendments, one is mine, as an ordinary MP. I think there's room to think about this amendment that I've tabled. I ask all MPs, when they discuss, when we come to that amendment to pay attention. It's article 138. The bill, paragraph 5, which I have proposed to change and reads as follows: A credible correction is a document in Article 52 paragraph 2 of the Law, because Article 52 is taxing on what it is - a credible sleep. Here we have more credible documents, not just something that refers to the look from the book of business on the service performed by the community or related services. Then we come to a member of a law that applies only to utility services. I ask that the same rule applies to all credible documents and that for 5,000 euros of basic debt cannot be sold house or housing alone. We're creating a new problem, 5,000 euros is not an epochal debt to lose an apartment, a house or any immovableity in which it lives, and it's not just a municipal service, nor do I think it's possible by our constitutional system to single out a kind of service, I'm not sure, I can't give an assessment of the constitutionality of this member of the law, but I think that municipal services, you may have gone beyond that solution to the social sensitivity of this proposal, but we can't single it out and say that 5,000 euros is for municipal services, so in some way... . I don't really know, I can't interpret what we're trying to say here, that the utility service is stronger than the service, like borrowing 5,000 euros for the treatment of the child, 5,000 euros for the purchase of drugs. And, then, such a case will run out of housing, and if you owe public enterprises 5,000 euros, you can count on the social dimension of the law and you will not be sold immovableity. So, the principle of proportion, regardless of the discussion of Biljana Pantic Pilje, I am for the principle of proportion in order to protect the debtors, because the laws are passed not only for the trustee, but also for the debtors, that the only immobility in the ownership of the natural person's executive debtor can not be sold, means the other is applicable to legal persons, and that this amendment must be extended to all credible documents, otherwise we do not have a law that is in line with one provision with another. As for the executioner's behavior and the way he sells apartments, I don't know what to tell you. I know an example where a man for his treatment, borrowed a certain amount of money, a large amount of money, but as a stock he gave an apartment, a real estate, which is 50% worth more than the amount of money that was borrowed. Since the greens that are in some strange way protected in our society, on the one hand, the debtor has no courage to say it's a green debt, when it comes to the border, and on the other hand, we have examples where and in court know and everyone knows, but it doesn't matter. That's another problem. The problem is that banks don't exactly lend you loans that easily and let's understand that there are people in our society who are forced to borrow. So, it's not the cases Biljana Pantic singled out, these on Dedinj and I don't know what. These don't live on Santa. How can I tell you, these guys don't live on Santa, they might come visit someone to borrow money from that Santa, but they don't live. So, a simple middle layer of people who had to borrow money at some point. What happened? The green debt was paid up to about 50%. Of course, who's gonna sign your receipt? There's a good witness there, and so, somehow when he's in a good mood to prove it, he still couldn't pay off that loan to the greeners under those interest rates. The value of the apartment is at least 150,000 euros. Let's not go to how much it's paid like this on our hands. There's been an apartment sale. Stan bought himself a trustee. The trustee himself bought the apartment. I can prove all this, no empty story is. But he was the only one, the trustee was the only one there. I don't know how it happened, the apartment is in a very attractive location and a great apartment, a minimum of 150 thousand euros, a habitable 1/1, everything's fine. Why did he estimate it bids for 60,000 euros, only he knows, could it have been less. Sixty thousand euros bid, he bought the apartment he was given for his stock and then sold the apartment to one person, also for 60,000 euros. And then what's left? This apartment turned out to be no pledge for the debt, this cannot be proved that, as Haradinaj did, he tried to scare everyone who could testify that money was being given on hand and now it turns out that the debt still exists for 90,000 euros, that there are interest on that which went beyond any possible debt, that there are enormous costs of the executioner and that is what my esteemed colleagues were talking about, he will probably talk about and when it comes to amendments, there is such a story everywhere in Serbia. There's such a story everywhere, which is impossible for someone to have an evil intention when it comes out here in parliament. Believe me, I will vote in favour of amendments and supplemental proposals, regardless of whether you adopt my amendment or not, you will not adopt the amendment, but consider, it is indeed 5,000 euros, it is a debt, it cannot be a debt solely for municipal action. The debt is long and equal. This I.D. is equal to just one of the I.D.s in Article 52, but we have to do something, we need a new bill to appear before us so that there's no predominant picture of the perpetrators becoming a special force without any control. That reporting to the disciplinary commission and so on, we know what it looks like, they're setting up a commission so it doesn't solve anything. The fact that he will be disciplined, he has become the owner of many properties anyway. You need to think about how to change that way. It's going to be a little easier by electronic sales and bidding and electronic sales, but to some extent. A skilled executioner can control that, too. I'm saying this as a representative of ordinary citizens, as someone who responds here to the memos of many people complaining about all kinds of anomalies in our society, I'm no longer a lawyer, I've had this difficult and bitter experience, so I know there's all sorts of things and there's a new bill that has to exist and that essentially changes things in the conduct of the perpetrators. Of course, if I have to say a sentence, I'm going to say it with full satisfaction that I'm going to have someone who respects party discipline and who thinks that there are certain shifts in this bill, amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, of course I'm going to vote and support it. It is my appeal that you consider the amendment and that we all work together on a new bill, because I think the practice has shown and that the conditions have been met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59062	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59063	Thank you, Your Honor. I listened very carefully to everything you said. Believe that when the task force proposed a bill and the amount was to be determined where the possibility of selling the single immovable property was limited, she thought not only about the amount, but also on the basis of which credible documents could limit the enforcement process. Then we came into a situation that if it were to spread to other credible documents, we would be questioning business, and the whole mesmerized traffic would be questionable, because there would be abuse. Someone would issue more bonds for the amount of security of 5,000 euros and thus protect themselves from being able to implement the execution on its immovableity. Also, in issuing checks, no checks in domestic traffic, but since a credible ID and a foreign transport check can be extremely high, it would be a situation for someone to issue more checks that cross over much more than 5,000 euros, and if they were individual amounts, absolutely could not be executed if this regime was extended to other credible documents. That's exactly why we've limited this to communal activity, because we're all citizens of the mandatory community regime, we don't choose whether we want to have electricity or water, that's something we have to have. When it comes to other contractual obligations, we go into them voluntarily, and that is exactly why the bill is defined this way. So, when it comes to other credible documents, we have now provided for a shortened enforcement procedure that is currently applicable to bonds, cheques, unconditional bank guarantees, unconditional accreditation, and the only exception that we have cited for the inability to execute on the sole immobility is for municipal activities, precisely to prevent abuses by executive debtors, so that there is no greater debt to amounts of 5,000 euros, which you could not further implement in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59064	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59065	Thank you, Minister. It seems like nothing of my amendment, but I'll try to convince you further in the discussion of details. Here you have well stated that it refers to natural persons, here in your bill, that it refers to, I think, 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent per middle rate, refers to natural persons, if I'm not mistaken. I think there is room to be singled out and to add that this applies to all debts of up to 5,000 euros in natural persons. Then we won't have a problem with bank guarantees, with credentials, with a copy of the business books, with an account of a domestic and foreign person with an emissary and other written evidence, etc., performs a central register, charters of value, to extract these documents relating to legal persons, and that this refers to a debt of 5,000 euros for natural persons. That would then help solve the issue. Now, this member of the law is not in line with a member of the 52 law, because it can't be, it writes what's a credible ID, and then it pulls out a debt to the communal. I understand your intention, your tendency, and that's exactly the social dimension, but there's not just a social dimension when it comes to municipal services. Social dimension exists in different aspects. We have people going abroad, no matter what. The state helps everything, but sometimes the state can't cover all the costs. One plane ticket for a seriously ill man, plus a companion, who must have a severe face, costs several thousand euros, because those faces must lie, possibly, or be transported to them. Please just, you don't have to answer me. Think about it, discuss in the government whether 5,000 euros could be worth something to all debts for natural persons not to lose that one real estate they live in. Just to think about that direction. I think everything a man imagines can and can accomplish, especially when he's a good lawyer, a good economist. We may be able to find a solution, but I think that today when some expensive purse costs several thousand euros, an ordinary man of 5,000, if he borrows, he didn't borrow for an expensive purse or something like that or for some summer luxury, but he borrowed money because he really needs it, because it really needs it. I don't think it's just avoiding paying for utility services that are usually less than when they add up total amounts. We know that executions go every few months or half a year, so on and so forth. If there are other means to settle the debt, and there are often wages, pensions, or something else, then it is necessary to preserve a man’s ability to live in a residential unit. In this case, I forgot to say, which I was describing by wanting to describe how the perpetrators behave with us, there's even a regular debt removal from the business account, from receiving this man who came into this problem and with the trustee and the executioner, together, you don't know who cares more about destroying him completely. So there's a way only we have witnesses that the trustee with the executioner, together, when trying to execute the property said – a lot of it slows down, this is how it goes a little faster. I don't think that's the right way. We can help citizens, if we look at only numerically and the effects percentageally, now we manage much more to carry out, and we ignore, as the president of the state recently said, the poor citizens of this law-making process.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59066	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59067	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have expressed those views that I hope may be the subject of your special analysis and possibly respect when we finally discuss in particular the amendments. Of course, I expect at least one part for some of the amendments to accept them as established. In today's presentation, I have not touched the work of the perpetrator, which I am about to do now, and only because of the citizens of Serbia from here to send a very clear message, which is that the perpetrators should not be observed, as I said this morning, under prejudice, that they were placed here to luxuriously act, to benefit enormously materially, and that the actual execution procedure would be devised. No, I don't. On the contrary, the aim of this law is, on the one hand, to increase the level of legal certainty of executive creditors in the sense that executive creditors have predictability of enforcement, or that they can be sure that their execution will be settled. On the other hand, to protect the so-called. social categories of executive debtors, and those categories of executive debtors who really do not have the capacity in their own material Corps, or the potential to collect their claim in a way expected by the trustee. However, this does not mean that the executive debtor, who is in the situation and who has such a category, is now completely appalled by the collection of claims, as the execution process would be derailed. Why am I saying this, Your Honor? For a long time, in all these previous amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, the right way to define an institute of disproportionateity or proportions, when it comes to the level of claim to the value of the means of execution. Personally, I think that in this proposed text of the Law on Amendments, you have finally well defined this institute, although it can still cause problems in practice. Why am I saying this? There's been a lot of things going on in court practice. In particular, it is about situations where the executive trustee submits a proposal for enforcement and defines immovableity as a means of execution, apartment. The apartment is in downtown Belgrade. The apartment is worth, since it has a 100-square area, 300,000 euros. His claim is 15,000 euros. It's not about utility services. On the one hand, when you look at that cash amount, there is some logical conclusion that there may be disproportionateness. However, he has no other option, there is no other means of execution to charge except that way. If moral principles are applied, which is why someone in an apartment of 300,000, I have to be so, not to say, rough, but in any case just, at least in the moral sense of the word, would owe 15,000 euros, not to settle them, and the value of the immovableity they enjoy is multiplely higher. If this relationship is observed, then logically, sell the apartment, so buy you an apartment for 200,000 euros or 270,000, but give me back what you owe me, which is why I initiated the executive procedure. So what I said is more about what might be described as positive when it comes to norms related to this bill of yours. Where are the problems, Minister? The problems are in court practice and I'm going back to what I said today, so I'm going to try one more argument to convince you of that complaint, which I insist on, when it comes to a first-degree solution, and the first-degree solution refers to a solution that is adopted as an established request for the removal of irregularities. Let's just focus on that a little bit and work out the next situation. When we have a third party's objection, and the third party's objection concerns inadmissibility or inadmissibility. How? To make it clear to the citizens, this means that you against me, figuratively speaking, have initiated an executive procedure, submitted a proposal for execution and sought as a means of execution, i.e. to carry out the execution on my home. However, Radeta, a colleague, submits a proposal for the inadmissibility of execution as a third party and says – no, it is my house. That's where we come in with one problem that's about court practice. Why? Because the courts, the Honorable Minister, are setting up a practice that is absolutely wrong, let me also be a little milder, in the sense that the interpretation of the law is not appreciated, as the law should be interpreted. The law on enforcement in security says – if a third party has a right. What does “a person’s right ” mean? It doesn't have to be property. It could be some other right, even the right of a state. It could be a lease, or state-owned lease, and then the courts say yes, but you didn't give me a copy of the property list where it was seen to be your house. One absurd, and then we get into a situation where that third person is left unaltered. Why? Because it's being sold in the executive procedure. That is why I am saying that, under this request, when it comes to irregularities in the work of the executive debtor, we should pay increased attention to the application of the legal remedy. You've referred me to the Honorable Minister to Article 24 and it's not disputed, but if I'm wrong, I will ask you to correct me, because I highly respect your views, which in Article 24 stands as a regular legal remedy and complaint, which means that even an objection can be filed against a first-degree solution. In my mind, as I recall, three. 24, if I have properly evaluated him, interpreted and objected to an effective legal remedy but was normable in that same article. My insistence was that an appeal could be filed against this solution that would adopt the request, as a founding request for irregularity in the work of a public executioner, and that such a member should be prescribed to examine the correctness and legality of the solution. Furthermore, I do not think that we can question one fact that is present no matter how high they condemn public executioners, considered them to be some, conditionally speaking, factors that in a simple and easy way come to profit, which I do not dispute that their public-executive tariffs are quite high, but it is nevertheless proportionate to all that they do, because they are carrying out the most sensitive part of the procedure, which is the process of realising the judicial decision, i.e. the appropriate decision, whether it is an executive document or a credible document. In any case, what seems important to me to know is that, and that's where you correct me if I'm wrong, the public executioners took over two and a half million of the courts, when they were as an institute, or as someone who was given public authority to work. What does that mean? This means that for two and a half million cases, the courts were relieved and that they accelerated the execution procedures, that the execution procedures were made more effective, that the claims were more effective. Therefore, public perpetrators should be observed through the prism on the one hand, and on the other hand condemn each, even an attempt to abuse the authority of public perpetrators. And that's what I said today in the opening part, and I say, behind that, categorically, it's the only possible way to introduce, absolute, so to speak, order in implementing the execution. At the very end, since I would not go any further around the bill itself, given that I, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, expressed all those views that I thought should be present, please pay attention to Article 77a and Mrs or Ms Deretic, you and my colleague Ćosic will, hopefully, understand me. Article 77a should also apply to public enforcement authorities. I ask you to look at the provision of article 77 and to take a comparative view not only of the court, but also of the perpetrators, because I don't see that difference. If the public enforcement officer is given the authority to decide on certain rights and requirements, why would Article 77a, which refers to the court, not apply to the public enforcer as well? I think that should be intervened and there is room for change and supplementation and that amendments submitted by the SPS parliamentary group should also be observed in this direction. You will see that this is the very provision that states that the court is competent to decide on legal remedies. In this situation, why should not a public enforcement officer be competent to whom the powers prescribed by law are conferred? That would be about as long as we don't start discussing the details of the bill itself. Of course, we will also make our views known when we discuss amendments. I hope then you'll accept some of these and I thank you again and I repeat that we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59068	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here's a colleague of the Palalics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59069	Mr. Vice-President, Mrs. Kuburovic, the whole debate today could come to the attention of around two groups of issues. One group of issues concerns the position of creditors and debtors on the basis of amendments and additions to this law, and another group of issues concern the position and work of public enforcement officers and each of these two groups of issues deserves special attention. You initially correctly noticed that these amendments and amendments to the law, as well as the 2015 law itself, have caused great controversy and public interest and should be asked a question - why is that so? Because, in my opinion, at this very stage, the final stage of the procedure in the clearest way raises the question of justice, and the citizens are the most sensitive to what justice is and what is just and what is dependent on the perception of justice that they have on certain issues under this law. The question becomes: Is it justice not to pay the debt to whoever there is or is it justice for someone to be existentially destroyed because of a certain debt, he and his family and on this matter of justice are also required solutions in amendments and additions to the law, and they are wanted for a very long time. This is the fifth law on enforcement and now enforcement and security since 2000. Through five laws, an optimal relationship of justice is sought when it comes to the need to meet trustees' needs and when it comes to the need to protect the existence of debtors. I will point out, since it was most discussed today, about the question of the perpetrator, only that perception that exists in public that is very important for the state. She has overcome because of the different circumstances in society, the fact that justice issues about the existential threat of debtors and the images that exist in the public is that public perpetrators are a completely separate part of the justice system, that no one has control over them, that the state is powerless over what they are doing, even though only the lawyership is free of activity, and they are part of the judicial systems to which public powers have been transferred. It's very important to notice this. You said today how many disciplinary procedures you've initiated. It's very important that you say it publicly, but in public perception, citizens don't see it. They see the haughtiness and violence of certain public perpetrators and therefore build a picture of the state's impotence and the fact that no one cares about the debtors and that the only interest of the state is to lead the interests of the debtors, which is not true. There's been a lot of talk here and the trustees. It was about trustees being physical. It was about trustees as banks. There is a group of trustees or potential creditors who are closely following what is happening in the domain of execution because this country most specifically shows how effective it is, and these are potential domestic and foreign investors who want to see if it is possible to collect a debt that can be paid in a bond relationship and the fact that thousands of cases in the domain of execution are resolved is certainly encouraging and it is therefore important to send a picture of the state and the side of the creditors and that this false picture that has been created because of the functioning of certain public perpetrators acting as if they are not part of the judicial system must be removed. You have and it is few of the colleagues here noticed excellent interventions when it comes to the need of the economy and foreign investors or domestic investors, which is the introduction of a shortened procedure. It's an extremely important thing. And that's a good message for all those who want to invest in Serbia, because if investments come, new jobs will open and the whole process of economic development will grow much more. All citizens will benefit from this, and unfortunately those in a difficult situation will benefit. That is why I fully support the introduction of a shortened executive procedure that will help much to regulate the economic relations that exist in Serbia. As for the need, let's say a balanced relationship between the position of creditors and debtors, with a complicated seal in which these two sides are in the process, which the public has been following for years, you've tried to find, at this point, an optimal solution. Whether it will be permanent or require new amendments to the law will be seen in application. This law does not apply only to the changing position of debtors and social needs, as you have stated, so as to the expanded definition of the principle of proportionality, the collection of costs, which is very important, where the position of debtors is protected. A delay in execution, the possibility of delaying execution and the possibility of finding an agreement during that period or obtaining the possibility of the debtor fulfilling his obligation. We have talked a lot about the sale of immovable property in all aspects, from public competition to protection, and also from disabling those who have so far abused the possibility of buying immobility in the executive procedure, now they will not be able to do so. And, of course, there's been a lot of talk about making a profit. But you, in a particular situation to speed up the executive procedure and to give priority to the trustee yourself, introduce individual institutes and individual solutions in favour of the trustees. And that's something to say. It's a matter of billing when the process starts under the Mortgage Act, for example. I was saying something a little short-handed. Or, let's say, a very important moment, when it comes to a debtor who is an indirect budget user, that the payment to that debtor requires prior notification by the Ministry of Finance, which allows the budget user to regulate his debt over the period of 30 days. We talked, of course, about the possibility of a book of unrecorded property, i.e. the property not driven to the debtor, but now there is a possibility that, through a faster procedure at the request of the court, it is registered to the debtor and the payment is realised faster. So, in my opinion, these solutions are trying to balance the position of creditors and debtors. I think that perception in public must change, and that's my main appeal to you when it comes to the position of the state itself. The state must not, in the eyes of citizens, appear powerless because of the behaviour of certain public perpetrators, because she is not. She passed on public authority to them. She can control them harder, she can take them away in the end line. Perhaps through some kind of different ethical code, perhaps through a different kind of way of enrolling in the directory or new controls of all public executioners, because the state has this possibility through the control of practices in the previous period, the current directory of public executioners can be purified to restore trust in the institute introduced in 2011. I then debated against this institute because the law was extremely bad. But improved solutions from 2015, especially now. It's hard to talk about when an institute is established about their total abolition, but it has to, because the state is showing some seriousness, but it has to improve, and it has to change this position in public, i.e. citizens must be given back their trust in the state and institutions established by it, among other things, that is the institution of the public executioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59070	Thank you, colleague Palalic. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59071	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister with fellow Members, without the intention of putting myself on the side of the executive trustees today, nor the side of the executive debtors, because every citizen of the Republic of Serbia should be fully equal both before the Constitution and before the law. I cannot hide that I personally like that the amendments and additions of this law have a social component and that these amendments and amendments to the laws go in the direction of facilitating the position of the executive debtor in many provisions. Every citizen should know from 1 January 2020 that if they are in debt for municipal services up to 5,000 euros, or up to about 600,000 dinars, they will not be able to be sold the only real estate, whether it's a house or an apartment. Also, every citizen in the Republic of Serbia should know that from 1 January 2020 on a debt from their salary or from their pension, a much smaller amount will be removed than it has been so far. So, if it's a salary, so far it could take off two-thirds of the salary on behalf of the debt, and since 2020 it'll be one-half of the salary, unless it's a minimumer from which one-half was previously removed, and now it'll be able to take off up to one-quarter. As for pensions earlier, it was possible to take off two-thirds of pensions, now it's one-third, and for minimum pensions one-tenth, so far it was one-half of the pension, of course it's one-quarter for pensions that don't exceed the average pension. It should be known that the perpetrators came to Serbia in 2011, that they then passed the first law to regulate their position. Several times this law was amended, was adopted in 2015, and the one that entered into force in 2016. However, since the law is this, as well as any other, completely living organism, it is normal that, after a certain number of years, there are shortcomings in the law that was passed in 2016 and it is very fair and fair to say that some shortcomings in the meantime require these amendments and additions to the law, not only because there are certain ambiguities in the content of laws that cannot be interpreted, but mainly because of the abuses that occurred in the previous few years. The task force, as we heard from the minister, was composed of individuals from different and very important sectors for the adoption of these laws. By changing around 170 members of this law, we can believe they had a serious approach when changing this law. One of the objectives of the law that I have mentioned, it is certainly the social component of the provisions that are being changed, as I mentioned, that the increased pay and pension thresholds that are protected from execution, that the only immovableity cannot be subtracted by a debt, a municipal debt of up to 5,000 euros. But it should be noted that what citizens need to know in contact with the perpetrators, that what has not been changed, and remains valid, that the perpetrators cannot carry out the confiscation of clothes, shoes and other items that are for the personal use of individuals and families. They also cannot confiscate food and heating for the next three months, and were still excluded from the execution of all social benefits, all payments based on disability, as well as grants under the Family Financial Support Act with children. These benefits have also been extended, so that farmers have so far been excluded from confiscation to ten acres of their land. Now it's extended to agricultural machines, tools for work, which is very important for the area where I come from, since many people are engaged in agriculture. What was most common to the public, perhaps even more than the problems of those who had a problem with abuse, who had a problem of confiscation of property, are abuses from the perpetrators, so I welcome the introduction of anti-corruption measures in this law, such as to strengthen the rule of who cannot be a buyer in the enforcement process, then in budget cases there are fewer costs and fewer compensations for public executioners, which is very good, because in practice a large number of cases have been shown just when the debtor was the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government or indirect and direct users of budgets that so far were the most. There is disabling and multiple costs in the execution process, but what I consider to be the full hit, i.e. the most important in the amendments and additions of this law is the introduction of electronic auctions, i.e. public competitions, because we're all in touch with citizens and we all hear the same number of people showing up from auction to auction, the way they come to real estate, the price they buy these properties, how little time it takes to sell these properties for a much bigger amount, etc. So, I think this electronic auction can solve a large number of problems that arise in practice. All of our discussions may often go in the direction of condemning public perpetrators, and I think that, as my colleague said earlier, should change the perception of accessing public executioners. I believe and know that there are those who abuse the law and act contrary to what the executing institution is founded for, but I believe there are honest people who are perpetrators. It's not for the minority to condemn all those who do their job fairly. This job is certainly not easy and certainly no one enjoys going to anyone else's property. Whether these amendments to the law will solve all the problems we have in practice, I don't know. There are a large number of amendments, and I urge you to take great care to study the amendments that have been submitted, because the amendments have been submitted for good purposes. I believe that we will come up with the best solution for this law, but just by how much effort you've put in and how many provisions are proposed for an amendment and how much the task force has devoted to this problem, I can see that the Ministry has a good intention of solving all these problems, so in the day of voting you have absolutely my support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59072	Thank you, colleague Mother. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59073	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, we have a very important proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security. Our President Alexander Vukic and the Government are working and working to create a modern and modern society, to raise us to the bottom and bankruptcy scales that we have been on, to give all citizens the same chance to speed up court proceedings and restore citizens' confidence in the same. By applying the new law on enforcement and security, which entered into force on 1 July 2016, it brought more efficiency. He then contributed to reduce the number of old court cases by nearly 900 000 compared to the previous one in 2015. That is why much has been done to improve justice, infrastructure and the construction of courts, in order to facilitate access to justice. The executions previously carried out were slow, they lasted for years. The urgency of the process was not managed, but the reform since 2010 has destroyed the even greater efficiency of the judiciary. That is why we are increasingly working to improve access to justice, to make citizens equal before the court and other public authorities. Public perpetrators and executions attract great public attention, gather a large number of citizens, especially when someone is deprived of a house, an apartment, due to a debt to a bank, a company, unresolved property relations. Public executioners have gained a bad reputation since the establishment of a relatively new profession, which is due to the sale of one fixed property for the return of a debt that is much less than its value. That is why measures are foreseen to improve the social position of debtors and to find a way that is least unfavourable per debtor. The principle of proportion - one of the most important in the execution process. Both the court and the public executioner are ordered to determine for the settlement of the debt a way that at least threatens the debtor. They are obliged to determine whether there really is no other way than to take and sell someone's home to repay their debt. This extends the authority of the public enforcement authority to review the enforcement solution. Following the entry into force of the notice of the enforcement decision, the public enforcement officer, acting under the official duty and on a proposal from the party, will determine that the execution is carried out on other immovable property or other means and subject to enforcement if there is an obvious disproportionateity between the level of the claim, as referred to and added to in Article 151. It's a bill of law. Notices of the implementation of the immovableity shall remain recorded in the cadastre until they are settled. A significant provision prohibiting the confiscation of somebody's property for a municipal debt of less than 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent. A fine for any other person who interferes with and prevents execution has also been provided for, as interference does not lead to a suspension of the procedure, but rather a new attempt to execute that will bring new costs and burden on the debtor. Measures are also proposed to improve the social position of debtors in the work relating to earnings and pensions and to reduce the level of those being implemented. The introduction of an electronic public competition will enable any type of abuse that occurs in the sale of immovable property and significantly increase the prices which are the subject of sales in the executive process, remove the illegal methods used to obtain immovable property, allow a faster, larger and wider circle of potential customers to participate in public sales and higher purchase prices. Since the bill is passed by newspapers that are in the interest of the party, I will support it in the voting day, and I call on my colleagues to do so. I must, as a national MP, also state the position of the Serbian Progressive Party and the SNS woman, to which we strongly condemn the attack on State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior Biljana Popović Ivkovic by the alliances of Dragan Djilas, Zeljko Veseinović, Boško Obradovic and Vuk Jeremic, who made a number of sexist and misogynic statements at the expense of her and her family. With their actions and actions, the self-proclaimed elite leaders only increase the spiral of violence, which they themselves launched. It's about time they stopped before they caused some pain. Too many accidents have caused their people. Serbia doesn't need any more tears that have been caused by boastful and violent, greedy about money and cruel about anyone who is a little weaker than them, and are, as a rule, the most cruel towards women. That's why we condemn this kind of violence. I have to stay at the Kosovo and Metohija problem, which we carry with us and which is following us today, more and more. We believe that justice, which is slow, will one day still come. Every new move will aim to bring down unity and emigration between us from Kosovo and Metohija, but with the support of our country and our president, Aleksandr Vukic, we are fighting for survival and survival because Aleksandar Vukic gives us faith and strength for the prosperity and survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59074	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59075	Thank you, esteemed chairman, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, to express my undivided support for the letter published by my dear colleagues, wonderful. I'll be back on the subject now. We've heard a lot today, both for and against. I can tell you, my personal impression is, I'm not a lawyer, that this amendment and addition of the law is something balanced, something that is neither on the side of debtors nor creditors. I think these 170 members who change at one point will bring a lot of good and new. We all had the opportunity to read first of all in the daily newspaper about the sad fates of individual debtors. From the discussions that were heard here today, one attitude prevails, first of all, let's not let anyone get into a situation to reach the executioner. There are many steps before that. It seems to me that my colleague Komlenski spoke quite well about it and mentioned the information. There's a lot of people who aren't even commercially capable, demented, in years, and they don't even realize that someone put a notice up there in some basic or commercial or criminal court, that they have to act according to someone's judgment. Normally, people don't react, and then they get into a situation where they lose what's basic and only they have, and maybe it's a roof over their heads. It also seems to me that this amendment and the addition of the law goes in that direction to look at that social side. Anyway, I'd single out legal entities. I don't think we should let anyone do any harm to someone, aware that tomorrow they'll be paid off. I think we should separate that part of the legal entities from the natural persons, because that's exactly what my esteemed colleague just before and pointed out, and I think my colleague Palalic, and you're doing it with everything you do in the application of this law, giving that knowledge and distracting both our and foreign investors, that their investments and that their assets here are safe and that no one can harm any manipulative actions. That's what we have to endure. I think and it seems to me that the amendment of my colleague, Maja Gojkovic, is in some good direction, to try, but I'm also speaking here, and there are people who are trying to deal with fraud in people's faces. You have to separate in some way, I mentioned earlier, and I said -- there are people who aren't in a business capacity, who don't even know what the consequences that follow them are behind their failures, and they're not ultimately in a financial capacity. I'm going to mention this profession that a lot of roses are doing here. I don't want to say that all public executioners are the same. These are, first of all, people who have a judicial exam, who have finished colleges and who know what's right. But if we are Serbs, we are, we are, we are, we're trying to make every law as good as it is, no matter how good you suggest it, and the National Assembly here puts it through some amendments and we say it's perfect, everyone will, after applying it, be it immediately after the law comes into force or after a certain period of time, try to find a hole in the law. There are people like that in the executioner. That's what you said. I don't think we should go to disciplinary measures. I think the only right measure is to confiscate illegally acquired property and impose a labour ban. In voting day, anyway, I'm voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59076	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59077	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Kuburovic with his associates, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security, which are now on the agenda, seek to remove certain ambiguities in the content of the laws observed in the period of his previous application, but also to protect the position of executive debtors in some situations in which it is necessary, not jeopardising the legitimate interests of the executive trustee. Thus, the amendment of Article 394 shall be submitted. The laws introduce a significant paper on the collection of money claims arising from municipal and related activities from natural persons who possess only one real estate. Namely, the proposed amendments and additions to Article 394 have been stated that it cannot determine the execution by selling one immovable property owned by an executive debtor, a natural person in order to settle a claim whose principal does not exceed the amount of 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent by the middle course of the NBS on the day of submission of the proposal for enforcement. So it's the natural persons and those who have only one immovable property, and the debt is based on communal or related activities. These are all our fellow citizens who, for example, work from immovable property, own only one apartment or one house and who, if we adopt this proposal in future law, will be protected from the situation of being sold to them by someone who is the only real estate because of a debt that does not exceed 5,000 euros, i.e. debt which is in practice more than the value of immovable property. The proposed amendment of Article 169. The law has an extremely anti-corruption fact because the proposed changes extend the circle of persons who cannot be customers of the immovable property sold in the executive procedure, neither in public competition nor in direct contract. On the other hand, the proposed amendment is extremely significant, as the role of the administrator of the electronic public competition portal will be gained in the near future, as Article 168. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security provides that public competition for the sale of fixed and mobile items can be organised exclusively in the form of electronic public competition as from 1 July 2020. Proposed amendments and additions to Article 300. The law stipulates that cases marked as executive debtor by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or units of local self-government, i.e. a direct and indirect budgetary user, establish the responsibility of the Executive Trustee to submit a proposal for enforcement by written notice to the Ministry of Finance no later than 30 days before the submission of the proposal for enforcement. The proposed amendment of Article 300. The laws directly establish legal preconditions to achieve certain savings in the budget of the Republic, the AP and local self-government units. This will facilitate the work of the authorities responsible for the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and cities and municipalities, which already achieve significant results in the field. So, let's say, the City of Leskovec City's Attorney General, where I usually come from, has brought savings to the city and to the republic of 804,000 euros in one litigation. The Supreme Casation Court's ruling of 14 June 2017 definitely rejected the claim that the town of Leskovac and the Republic of Serbia paid even 804,000 euros in dinar equivalent to the name of the material damage due to the denied application for a local authorisation for the construction of a mini hydropower plant "Borac". After several court proceedings, the city's defence attorneyship of Leskovec signed up as the property of the city part of the eight-story building in Leskovac, where a part of the local self-government, a total area of 1,764 square meters, was placed, and before the Business Court in Leskovac, legally reduced the debt of the local community, for example, an electric energy nut from a million 128,000 dinars to just 6,794. A verdict confirmed before the Commercial Court of Appeals in Belgrade. In the end, to recap. The proposed amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security should be supported, as I have explained directly to them, improve the position of a wide range of entities, starting with natural persons who possess only one immovableity, and to the public authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and cities and municipalities, creating preconditions to achieve savings in their budgets. Of course, in voting day, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59078	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59079	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today's draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. First of all, I have to say that every responsible government, and this government is responsible, as well as the competent ministry, is one of the basic powers of monitoring the implementation of a law that has been passed. In that sense, I would like to commend your ministry's efforts to monitor the implementation of the Law on Implementation and Security, have come to the attention of, or have come to, all the difficulties and obstacles faced by citizens as debtors, whether they are creditors, whether they are economic operators, whether they are at risk of being socially-materialally threatened. In this regard, you have educated a working group that really included representatives and all organisations, that is, from all institutions dealing with this problem, and as a result, today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security. What I must first say is that by this law and by respecting one of the basic principles in the legal order of every country, and that is the principle of proportion. As another very important aspect, it is that this law is anti-corruption, anti-corruption in the sense that the sale is now possible via an electronic platform in order to avoid all of those corrupt actions that have been observed and which have occurred as well as who cannot be a customer of immovableness in this public competition and there are, apart from public executioners, their assistants and all those working in their office, whether they are related to a specific subject or not, concerned administrators working in the Justice Ministry, who are in charge of that electronic platform through which public competition will take place. What I particularly want to look at is this social aspect, as well as the aspect that concerns the protection of the interests of minors, i.e. the protection of children. When it comes to the protection of existential conditions, i.e. this economic aspect, I must first point out that the threshold is shifted in terms of wages and pensions and the shifted threshold in terms of execution, that there are also grants that are excluded from enforcement, which are all given to citizens who receive on the basis of social protection, physical damage, as well as in place of a child's allowance, has been extended to all rights and the Law on the financial support of families with children, in order to encourage birth, which is one of the measures of the SNS, and we know that a larger group of rights that citizens can exercise. What I want to point out is that the issue of support, first of all here, I mean the maintenance of minors, such as the support they make older and incompetent in accordance with the Family Relations Act, is now coming to a circle, meaning execution, given that they are cash claims, will be carried out by a public enforcer. I hope that underage persons, i.e. children, the right to support, will achieve much faster and more effectively now when it is the subject of public enforcement than when it was in judicial jurisdiction. Unfortunately, I know some children who have also welcomed adulthood, and have failed because of the unknown address of their parents, for changing their place of residence and for some other reason, to come to the realization of their legal right, which is the right to support. What I also want to point out, and also, this law is precise, and this is about protecting minors, so all those issues that are in the custody of parental child relations are not in the jurisdiction of the perpetrators, but rather in the jurisdiction of the court. All children, unfortunately, do not have the opportunity to live in coherent and functional families, and so some children come into a situation where they are forced to take and surrender to another parent. Here, a member of the law has been amended in the sense that only the confiscation and surrender of the child is carried out by the custody body, of course, with the presence, supervision and control of the court. This measure is also important from the aspect of avoiding traumatic conditions, avoiding any danger that could endanger the physical health, safety and safety of the child, and therefore the behaviour of the custody body here is of paramount importance in these procedures. Also, I want to point out when it comes to moving out of the apartments, and it is about underage children who are in the apartments that the public executioner is obliged to inform the custody authority, the custody authority to take all the measures the law requires to avoid negative effects on children. Of course, this law is also important for the economy, primarily through the introduction of an institute of a shortened executive procedure, which is otherwise conducted in front of commercial courts. What I want to point out is that the Ministry of Justice at this time, thanks to the fiscal consolidation measures, has achieved significant results and on the plan of improving judicial infrastructure, which is very important, both for the effective work of judges and for the reduction of procedures, because, certainly, in adequate conditions, judges will have the opportunity to appoint more hearings. I would like to stress that the reconstruction of the "Pravity Palace" in Belgrade, otherwise the largest judicial institutions, should be completed, that the stone is the basis for the Court of Justice in Kragujevac, that many courts, including the Criminal Court and the Business Court in Užica, have been renovated, reconstructed and built, and that the new KPZ in Pančev was built according to the world's greatest standards. Of course, I would like to point out that in order to protect the most endangered, a law on free legal aid has been passed, which increases the availability of justice for the most vulnerable people, but also victims of domestic violence. In the end, I want to join the convictions against Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Dilas, all of their friends, Jeremic, and all of these various forms of the yellow tycoon enterprise, which in the most harshest way possible insulted the secretary of state at the MUP, Biljana Ivković Popovic. It's their dictionary, it's their language of insult, it's their language of demeaning women, it's a dictionary that's only suitable for that so-called. Eliti, it is a dictionary that, by digging in its own mud, the nose springs from that mud when it is to attack Alexander Vukic and his family, when it is to attack our Prime Minister Anna Brnabic, when they are to attack the president of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic and, of course, their greatest weapon is violence, verbal violence against women. The Serbian Progressive Party, it believes this is for every conviction, that this conviction should be joined by all other women, regardless of whether they belong to the position or to the opposition, that this is a hate speech, that Serbia is a country of decent people and that women in Serbia do not deserve to be addressed in this way by anyone, especially someone from so-called. The elite who would lead this country, and to insult women in the highest places, to insult their mothers, to insult their wives, to insult our children, our daughters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59080	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojčić. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59081	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs Koburovic, with her associates, ladies and gentlemen, proposed changes that we are talking about today, and what is most important, will allow a number of benefits to Serbian citizens, both to citizens who are in debt and to citizens who are in trust. Also, the state will have significant benefits, which are: reducing the costs of the process, increasing efficiency, reducing the possibility of corruption, providing greater security for citizens, but also public utility and many others, I say, to state bodies that often appear as creditors, in a specific case. Furthermore, we are modernising our legal system by seeing some of the provisions that already exist in many countries, which in practice have proved to be functional and successful, and I am referring to the introduction of e-sales or e-auctions, which we have already talked about. When it comes to increasing efficiency, I must point out that the public enforcement officers discharge the courts on a significant scale, as well as that the speed of enforcement depends on the degree of rule of law that has been achieved and I mean the degree of protection of creditors, but also the degree of protection of debtors. What is quite important, although it has been repeated several times in today's discussion, I do want to say that from now on, a citizen, a real estate owner, will not be able to remain without real estate, if the debt is less than 5,000 euros, as well as that the buyer of the immovable property sold by the perpetrators cannot appear, so as a public contractor, his deputy, assistant or any other connected person. When it comes to the execution of the deduction from the salary, so from now on, it may be up to half the profit, and if it is a minimum wage, in that case it must not be more than a quarter. When it comes to retirement, refusal may be up to one third, or a quarter, if it is a minimum amount, or a minimum pension. So this is how we prevent the basic needs of a debtor's life from being compromised. I think that, generally observed, this bill is balanced, and that it treats in an equal manner both the rights and obligations and the debtors and the trustees and provides the highest degree of transparency, because that is what is very important, transparency of the procedure itself, because it eliminates the possibility of abuse in any sense, therefore, of any kind of abuse. I think it's very important that we restore trust in our judicial system, restore trust in the judiciary, even though it's not an easy job, given what the yellows have left us as an inheritance, but we have to fight constantly to that end, and that our trials don't last long, and that it's not untouchable and protected, that it's not simple, people who are above the system and who are not subject to the law. In that sense, I would take the opportunity to mention that, a few days ago, I think it was also addressed to the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, so here, I appeal to the members of the Justice Committee to consider this play, because what I saw from these papers is clear indications that there is a huge affair in which one of the participants is that Bozidar Prelevic. You know him, it's one of the main feathers of this Alliance for Serbia, as they already call him, that speaker at those protests, walks, one in five million, or maybe one in five millionaires is better said, as the people call them. So, a great expert on everything and everything. It's a court dispute that's still going on. In particular, about the property, specifically for the pond of great value in Bajna Basta, which, according to what is seen in this play, became in a very magical way the property of this particular Božidar Prelević. Therefore, it is a lawsuit for the cancellation of a fictitious agreement on the purchase of immovable property with a request to issue a temporary ban on alienation and a few more complaints about it, but there are also various letters to various institutions, reports various. Here, among other things, we have a report from Belgrade's Bar Association against BiH's lawyer, Bozidar Prelevic, from Belgrade, registered in Belgrade's Bar Association, damaged, a natural person, from Bajna Basta, submits an application. The damaged thinks that lawyer Preljević Bozidar severely injured the code of legal ethics when representing the natural reserve "Tara" d.o.o. Bajna Basta participated in the conclusion of the contract on 12.08. In 2013, certified by the team and team, he acted against the rightful solution to determine the temporary measure, which prohibits the alienation and burden of immovableity in which he also participated. Namely, by a solution of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, a regular number, since 03.04. In 2013, a temporary measure of banning estrangement was set, and a disputed agreement was concluded by ignoring such a court measure, following the legality of the solution. The applicant for this application filed a complaint to the First Basic Court in Belgrade on 20 September of the same year, so 2013, which was sued by the natural person "Tara" d.o.o. Bajna Basta, and the case file of the First Basic Court in Belgrade found that the registered lawyer continues to represent the natural reserve "Tara" d.o.o. on Bajna Basta, as the defendant. The case of the First Basic Court in Belgrade states that it was known that the court banned the alienation of the property in which the reported party took part. And not to read all these files now, so the essence is, a month after the lawfulness of the temporary measure, which prohibits estrangement of immobility, it concludes a real estate transport contract, and this suggests that he knew of the temporary measure. In order not to, I say, spend the time of the parliamentary group on this, I urge that this affair be investigated in detail, to see if there may have been any trade in influence and that these things be carried out on a clean-up basis. I'm not saying anything, but these are very disturbing data, very disturbingly quoted and should be checked, so let's see who's nagging us every divine day that the state of the country is disastrous, that crime is booming, that nothing is working, and everything else we hear all day long from them. Well, let's see what kind of elite it really is, this second Serbian elite, represented by between the other and this Prelevic, which he only knows, is that all the work in the country is being done all day long, and that through their media, either N1, whether this "New", whether "Today" or any other media, is mocking the people, calling it stupid, illiterate, credential, uneducated and so forth. It is the same elite that has insulted the state secretary Biljana Popović Ivkovic today, calling her and insulting her in the ugliest possible way possible. It's the same elite that's been doing it for months and years when it comes to women who belong to the SNS. From there and this statement and this conviction, by the women of the SNS, to whom I join and solidarity with them on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59082	I thank my colleague Markovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here's a colleague of Veljkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59083	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the functioning of every legal system cannot be imagined without its executive work. The enforcement is the most often the last and most significant phase in the process of protecting certain rights. It constitutes the realisation of a specific objective, which is set out in the application for protection of subjective rights, as well as the exercise of the rights established by a judicial or other decision of the authorised authority. In our legal system, with regulations relating to the execution of judicial decisions in civil matter, we were not too lucky. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929, the Implementing Procedure Act, which was extremely modern and efficient according to the legal standards of modern Europe at the time, was adopted. The events that then took place in the world and the changes after World War II, have led to the fact that the 1929 law was put out of force and legal rules were applied in then-Yugoslavia. In 1978, an Executive Procedure Act was adopted in the former SFRY, which was announced as a revolutionary regulation of the self-government socialist system. The law certainly characterizes two characteristics, on the one hand an unfair relationship of social property, as well as excessive protection of debtors. Both of these provisions of the law at the time were logical, given the finding of the opportunity in which it was brought. Despite numerous objections, the 1978 law with minor changes remained in force until 2000, when a brand-new Implementing Procedure Act was adopted. The solutions that were then made, unfortunately, not only did they not fix the 1978 text, but they ruined it. The basic remarks concerning the 2000 law were, which is completely inappropriate and unbalanced, trying to reduce the dominant position of debtors, denied some legal and ordinary rights of debtors. Due to numerous criticisms, a new law was passed in 2004, which we can say that its basic characteristic is an attempt to balance relations between the 1978 law and the 2000 law. This basically means that the legislator tried to find a certain measure of things between trustees' rights and debtors' rights. The 2011 law marks a turning point in the development of executive procedural law in the Republic of Serbia. A significant part of the power of enforcement, which has belonged to the judicial authority for decades, has been delegated to private perpetrators. So we come to the current law on enforcement and security, whose application produced a number of positive and negative effects. The positive solutions to the laws that have improved the enforcement procedure relate to the establishment, i.e. the introduction of public enforcement officers, which has significantly contributed to the effectiveness of the enforcement procedure, the unification of judicial practice in the legal proceedings, the obligation to provide data on the executive debtor, the more precise procedure for the settlement of monetary claims resulting from municipal and related services, the suspension of the fact of the objection, as a legal remedy in the executive procedure for the execution solution, increased efficiency. The negative effects that occurred in the application of the current law shall be examined in the ineffectiveness of the legal remedy in the executive procedure, resulting from the provision of Article 26. The law on enforcement and security, which has been amended by the proposed amendments, to the joint sale of immovable property and movables. The failure to comply with the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure which regulates the dispute proceedings has little value, the non-compliance of the legal and sub-legislative act concerning public enforcement tariffs and the costs of the executive procedure. The misapplication of the principle of proportion, which was in practice completely deformed, resulted in the implementation of the execution on the property of the debtor or, as our people would say, the slaughter of ox for a kilo of meat. In this context, I point out that the 1978 Executive Procedure Act contained a provision to protect one category of population, farmers who could not lose land and a yard house for minimum debt. However, the 2011 Implementation and Security Act has all subordinated the need for an executive trustee to settle as quickly and favorably as possible. The new law on enforcement and security of 2015 highlighted the principle of proportion for the first time as a legal principle, and the latest changes further elaborated and strengthened this principle in all parts of the law, with the primary aim of preventing the deposit of the executive debtor's assets from settling the bagatel claim of the executive trustee. Furthermore, one of the basic weaknesses of the current law was the provision laid down in Article 258 which provided for a limit of execution on earnings or wages, salary and pension fees which could be made at two thirds, or one half, if the amount is equal to or less than the minimum earnings established under the law. Such legislation, which primarily values the current economic opportunities, endangers the life and existence of the executive debtor and his family and prevents him from serving his regular obligations neatly. In Slovenia, for example, there is an exact amount that is not to be preyed on, and in Serbia up to two-thirds of the salary, or pension, is to be seized independently of the amount of the salary or pension. In order to balance the legitimate interest of the executive trustee with the rights of the impoverished category of citizens, as the only logical and fair solution is to reduce the quotas, which is just done by the bill, which now provides for the execution of one half of the profits or wages, i.e. wages and one quarter if their amount is equal to or less than minimum earnings. Taking into account these well-proposed solutions, as well as solutions that narrow down corrupt actions, we prevent multiple costs in the process of execution in so-called budget cases, and eliminate abuse in the process of public competition through an electronic platform. It is absolutely certain that a better and fairer enforcement procedure will be established, which is sufficient reason for the SNS parliamentary group to support it with satisfaction in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59084	Thank you, colleague Veljkovic. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59085	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, reading the amendment and addition of the new Law on Implementation and Security, I have come to the conclusion that these new changes and additions will primarily go in favour of citizens, primarily debtors and, of course, creditors, will protect state interests, and will stop corruption and the abuse of the law itself. The most important newspaper of the bill is that the only immobility, we have heard from my colleagues, owned by the debtor, cannot be sold if the debt is less than 5,000 euros. Thus, the amount of wages and pensions will be secured and can be charged, and in this way we will be able to pay the debtor who simply had a need to live... The following is important that the procedures will be united in one executive procedure. There's no cleavage to the same debtor. If there is a tear, only one procedure will be followed again. The bill also contains, as I said, anti-corruption measures, real estate buyers cannot be themselves perpetrators, their deputies, assistants, and all those who work and who are employed by them, whether or not they are in the case. The problem of law abuse will be prevented, we will stop it, by introducing an electronic public competition. The opinion of most of the Working Group is that in public auctions, as a central phase of sales of immovable property, it is the weakest link and that there was an inadmissible practice that a group of natural and legal persons actually figure as real estate buyers. As regards state interests in the case, which is as an executive debtor, is referred to as the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, Autonomous province and all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, will have to be notified to the Ministry of Finance 30 days earlier, so that some settlement would occur and the possibility of voluntary settlement of commitments and, of course, lower tariffs. So all these changes, 170 members of the new amendment and supplementary, which you taxed and explained in the bill, and we'll talk about it according to the amendments, go as I said in favor, primarily, citizens who are debtors. Of course, you have not left out any creditors there, but the conclusion – it will stop the abuse and corruption of the previous law, in fact the possibility of corruption and abuse. I would like to condemn as all my colleagues, in the end, the attack on state secretary Biljana Popović Ivkovic by members of the Alliance for Serbia and ask a few questions from a statement, letters sent by us. Is there an end to the flood of violence against women who promote and execute daily Alliance for Serbia leaders? Where is the limit to such behavior? Is that the only way to fight politically? Dealing with women, promoting naked violence and lynching women? The latest attack on State Secretary Biljana Popovic Ivkovic by the former regime represents that policy of violence against women at work. These are their values and their morals. I just want to tell them, if they don't know the information and they don't have that information, that 51% of the population are women, 51% of the women will sort of fight back in their elections, but they forget that 49% of them have given birth to women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59086	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59087	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, is a court procedure. Its basic subject is the coercion of an executive trustee's claim before the court. The public executioner is a person who exercises public authority entrusted with the law on enforcement and security. During the previous years, some ambiguities were observed which led to the need for amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security. One of the most important newspapers is that the only immobility of a natural person cannot be sold to settle the debt from municipal and related services, if this is a claim of less than 5,000 euros, so the amount of claims based on which it will not be able to carry out by selling immovable property. The next newspaper is to increase the threshold of earnings, wages and pensions, i.e. amounts that are protected from execution, so as not to endanger the basic needs for the life of the debtor. When it comes to wages, execution can be carried out up to their half, or to their quarter, if their amount is equal to or less than minimum earnings. When it comes to pensions, the execution can take place up to a third, or a quarter if the pension does not exceed the average pension amount, or dozens when it comes to minimum pensions. One of the newspapers is the voluntary settlement of the cash claim before the enforcement procedure is launched. On a proposal from the trustee, the public executioner calls on the debtor to voluntarily settle the claim. This means that according to the agreement between the executioner and the debtor, the debtor shall pay his debt without initiating the executive procedure. It therefore reduces the number of executive procedures, while the debtor passes at a lower cost. The paper is also the introduction of an electronic public tender for real estate sales. This reduces the possibility of abuse. Therefore, the course of public competition was changed by introducing a bidding step, by offering more prices than the initial one. This will allow for equal participation and competition of all interested parties, transparency and fair public competition procedures, as well as an increase in the price at which the subject-matter will be sold. The legislator wants to prevent anomalies in the sale of immovable property. In addition to more effective debt collection, these newspapers and the additions to the laws also provide for the financial status of citizens, all in order to strengthen the social component and economic weak populations when it comes to the protection of debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59088	I thank my colleague Ljubic. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59089	Thank you, Chairman. There is still a debate in the principle of the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Implementation and Security, which I would like to apostrophe in this announcement, so that all colleagues on the list can come to talk about these changes and additions, is to strengthen the social component and protect the economically weaker layers of the population. It's very different when you have a pension, and you find yourself in a position to be an executive debtor and when you know that execution can take away practically one-quarter of that pension a month. It's very different now after the amendments and additions to this law if you know that if you have a small pension, that execution will cover one tenth. The same applies, i.e. the movement of the border applies to wages, and now it is one half of two thirds instead of two thirds. Minimum earnings will be able to be charged up to a quarter. It is a big thing that prevents the execution from jeopardizing the basic life needs of the executive debtor. So, it's very important that this social component of the proposal comes before us. What I would say in the end, which will end this reporting, is that I condemn attacks along with my colleagues from the SNS, condemning attacks on State Secretary of the Interior Ministry Biljana Popovic Ivkovic, who, of course, came again from the leader of the Alliance for Serbia. They insulted her and insulted her about her personal life and her family again in the most disgusting way possible. The fact that women from the SNS are used to being the target of the Alliance for Serbia's attack, who represent themselves as great men and insult women and build their own politics, does not mean that Serbia and we approve of what they are building their policies on and let them know that we, along with each of our colleagues, will stand together and defend it, but also Serbia that does not deserve a daily hate speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59090	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59091	Thank you, dear Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Mrs. Kuburovic, respected citizens of Serbia, we are delegated here to protect the interests of our citizens and from this point of view in the court process in which citizens are opposed to the sides, the law should protect the damaged. To achieve justice is a very important segment for each individual, because the satisfaction of justice is equated with the victory of what is good, what is moral and logical, or what is thought and feels most. However, since justice is not a rational category, or there is no way that it is precisely determined or measured, there are also constant efforts and aspirations to do what is right. That's how I look at changes and additions to this law. The aim of this change is to protect debtors whose social standard is lower and to prevent possible abuses by public perpetrators and other participants in an executive procedure that has been observed in practice so far. All these changes that fellow lawyers professionally explained are certainly in favour of citizens who are less than 5,000 euros in debt, and their apartment or house is simply everything they have. On the other hand, we also have citizens who are in the capacity of those who want to collect their claim and who also need an effective remedy to collect what they belong to. That's why this area is very and sensitive, because it leaves the possibility of being placed on one side or the other as a man. However, our obligation in this House is to be objective and to give an objective opinion accordingly. I think these changes will prevent the sale of family homes due to very low debt, and thus prevents the creation of a socially endangered category of society and it is morally and it is correct. That's why I'm voting for this amendment to the law. When we talk about protecting the interests of the parties in the process waiting to collect their claim, I will ask Mrs Kuburović one question, and I will convey some experience and difficulties of single parents who cannot charge support, i.e. child support child support. Although this change allows the perpetrators of this topic to be dealt with, it happens very often that the donor is being supported by various abuses in order to avoid payment because he has nothing and where to take it from. That's what you say professionally, covering up the real situation. In this case, it is generally advised to extend the requirements to first relatives, grandparents, which is again an additional cost and additional delay for those who support the child and who are already in a difficult material position, so I ask you to re-open the topic and give them some information that would facilitate their process and tell them whether new steps are being taken in overcoming all situations where debtors are skillfully avoiding paying their obligations even though they are realistically able to pay them. Also, there are debtors who live very well in debt with other citizens who cannot collect their claims with executive judgments, so please tell me if anything can be done in these cases. As for the attack on the Secretary of State and her family, I have only one question for Gilas and Veselinovic and Obradovic and Jeremic – are they treating their mothers, sisters, daughters, wives, or are they double-arshins by whom Serbian citizens are again divided into those less valuable depending on whether their political counterparts are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59092	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59093	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with associates, since I know how much you fight for human rights, for the dignity of women, for the care of children, I cannot not react to the insult directed to Mrs Biljana Popović Ivkovic because SNS women have zero tolerance to violence. It is a shame to know by which way Bosko Obradović, Dragan Djilas and Veselinović are public, Nebojsa Aleksic is fluent in breaking women's dignity, breaking the law. I wonder, when will these people be processed? It's a shame they insult the family. It's a shame they insult children. It's a shame they insult women. Enough. Enough. I call on all opposition women in Serbia to strongly condemn and raise their voice against misogyny, i.e. spreading this kind of hatred exclusively against women. Their silence means the approval of the words of Sergei Trifunovic, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, Zeljko Veselinovica and similar to them. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates strong and successful women because they alone can create strong Serbia, and those who insult and call for violence will never rule Serbia again and deserve sanctions and contempt from all decent citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the law on amendments to the Implementing and Security Act, very important topics are covered. The principle of proportion is again discussed, as well as the basic principle followed by the executive procedure, and large newspapers are coming also by the introduction of e-actuation and electronic advertising tables. The public is very interested in today's session, for this law, so I'm sure the crowd of people is watching this session. One of the essential reasons why changes and additions of this law have taken place is the unequal case law that led to the unequal conduct of the enforcer. Many wonder whether public contractors will be abolished or not, as it has been shown that the work of the contractors has improved business because the rate of voluntary collection is far higher than it was before. Today, citizens in 90% of cases pay their dues. What the Ministry of Justice is considering is the limit, i.e. the amount of claim based on which it will not be able to carry out by selling immovable property. This way, for small claims, citizens will be preserved in some way from the fear of selling the apartment they live in. It's that social moment I really liked. The law is important, because the speed of enforcement depends on how much the rule of law has been achieved in Serbia, how much trustees and debtors and the law depend on Serbia's position on the Duing Business List. Let's just remember where we were, in 184 places, and today in 2019, in 11 places. The biggest newspaper in the law is that the sale of immovable property in which the debtor resides in the case of a municipal debt of up to 5,000 euros has been disabled. Another significant change is a census that can be charged with forced execution, that is, instead of the current two-thirds of the salary will be able to be charged up to half. Also, when it comes to retirement, the pension will be charged instead of half a third, while the minimum will be able to be charged up to one quarter. The introduction of an electronic auction to sell immovableity is a revolutionary solution to the law. In this way, all negative phenomena relating to that part of the enforcement process will be eliminated. The law on enforcement and security will allow transparency, and everyone will be able to participate until the sale is complete. As long as the face doesn't fit into the cadastre, you won't know who the buyer is. The draft law on enforcement and security allows for the multiplication of costs in the enforcement process. The bill will also allow for much less costs in the so-called budget costs in which the executive debtor of the Republic of Serbia, AP Vojvodina, i.e. autonomous province or unit of local self-government. In the enforcement process, special attention is given to solving the problems that exist with regard to public competition. The introduction of a public electronic competition will solve this problem. It's a public secret that potential customers are motivated to give up their auction before it starts. Only an electronic platform can prevent abuse. This is how the government, headed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, is doing, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59094	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59095	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are pleased to see you very often in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This speaks of you and your ministry about your dedicated work at the Ministry, in whose work the former government has left a wasteland. That's what you know best. Many things former Minister Selakovic has improved, corrected, and you have continued very committed in the same direction. It will take a lot of time for our judicial authorities to be brought to an envious level, because it has been neglected, not to say completely devastated. Of course we'll all be able to bring him to a certain level together. It is this law that is an integral part of the modernisation of our judicial system, which is one of the cornerstones of the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose engine is the momentum of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these amendments to the law on enforcement and security are the result of the application of the existing law, and that's good. They will remove all those observed shortcomings when applying the law in practice. On the other hand, it will also remove certain shortcomings and certain irregularities or contradictory norms contained in certain members of this law. The most important changes relate to the only immobility of the natural person my colleagues and colleagues have talked about, that I do not further explain it. Also, in the text of the law, supplements related to anti-corruption measures have been made and electronic public competition is further introduced, which will enable each type of abuse and significantly increase the prices at which certain items will be sold in the course of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days we are witnessing daily unargumented, malicious media attacks, not criticism. I underline media attacks, not criticisms, on the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, individual members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly on Mr. Interior Minister, Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, individual MPs, especially from the ruling coalition, and particularly on MP Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic. They resent us so-called. Journalists, I'm undermining so-called. Journalists or rather political workers, that we did not condemn the views of the honourable MP, Professor Vojislav Seselj, about journalist Snezana Changrada, about her writing in which she said that Republika Srpska is a genocide and that genocide took place in Srebrenica. Gentlemen journalists, especially you from the N1 CIA and the new, and you from NGOs, have you ever called when the journalist in question said, quote, that a genocide occurred throughout Republika Srpska, finished a quote? Of course not. It's not your idea to come to the phone about it. Do you know, gentlemen of the press, how many millions of Serbs are offended by that statement? Of course you don't know or pretend you don't. Did you ever, gentlemen of the press, report when the journalist concerned claimed that Professor Vojislav Seselj, the honourable MP, quote: "the convicted war criminal", finished the quote, and you all know that he was not convicted of it? Why do you keep your mouth shut, gentlemen of the press? Why do you keep your mouth shut from NGOs? Are those double arches? Could I call it "the word of hate", and that silence "the word of hate"? Have you ever tried to put yourself in his skin or his family's skin? Of course not. You are spreading hatred among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with your unfounded views. If I were Professor Vojislav Seselj, I wouldn't say those sentences that he did, I might say otherwise, but again, on the one hand, I understand him, watching where he spent 11 years in The Hague. As one of the witnesses in the process of the century, Slobodan Milosevic, as a witness, I know what it means to be there, especially him. And on the screen of TV "N1" and the new CIA every day we hear so-called "N1" Journalists, even academics Dusan Teodorovic, that one national MP, Vojislav Seselj, quotes: "a convicted war criminal". Does Mr. Academyman know or pretend not to know that Dr. Vojislav Seselj is not a convicted war criminal, that he is not convicted? That's why, because for a crime he wasn't convicted of. I can't believe that's what the professor of the university says. On the basis of what documents is that, last night, claim? Are his scientific papers like that? Are his scientific papers based on such arguments? Does Mr. Academyman know he's being listened to by students who can't believe that an academic is banging without proof, as our people would say? That, I'm sorry, is not appropriate, as my Dalmatians would say, ass, let alone academics. This is an academic who told you that the National Assembly, believe it or not, is respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn, and MPs are primitives, i.e. animals. He can tell me, but he can't tell this honourable Parliament that. It's a reflection of his patriotism towards the state. The manipulant invites students on October 1st not to start teaching, to boycott it. Dear students, you who know me, but most of me, many students know me, not only at my university, but also at other universities, don't let you manipulate irresponsible professors and drag you into political games, even if you wear the title of academics. As chairman of the SANU Education Committee, I expected him to present a platform or programme for improving the education system, i.e. modernising that system or proposing to improve the role of teachers and students in educational work in schools and society and other topical issues of education and education. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, did you see him last night when the name of the president of the state was mentioned? He trembles with hatred, shakes his head, shakes his head like this. No wonder the people call him the "academiactress". So is it possible that such hatred shines on not only the president of the state, but also the honourable MPs, to all of us, when he tells us that we are primitives? Mr. Academyman, you will be destroyed by that hatred. We will not shine hatred, we will shine love for you and for such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59096	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59097	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Kuburović, here we are, at the very end of the discussion on the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security. I'm just going to say that I agree that the topic is such that it raises great public attention, media even followed some executions and all the objects that caused great media attention were then the subject of the Ministry's supervision. That is why certain standards have also been amended, i.e. some amendments and additions have been proposed, because the Ministry and the Working Group that dealt with the amendments and additions and the making up of this bill know exactly what things the participants in the process have actually complained about. The surveillance has also been strengthened by the fact that the perpetrators now have to submit reports, and as we see from today's debate, surveillance will be further strengthened by the Justice Ministry and that is what I consider positive. The relationship between the ministry of justice and public executioners has helped greatly in drawing up the drafts, and now the text is already in the form of a bill, as soon as it is in front of the MPs. What we heard today in the principle debate is the improvement of legislation, the modernisation of the introduction of e-sales, i.e. e-auctions and the electronic register, the prevention of abuse, the prevention of fraud in public competition proceedings in the sale of movable and immovable things that make up the property of the executive debtor, the prevention of corruption in the enforcement process, the increase of security for participants in the process, the reduction of the costs of the procedure, which means a great deal to our citizens who are in the role of executive debtors, the reduction of the costs of the procedure, the prevention of costs, the protection of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the additional period of 30 days for voluntary settlement of obligations, etc. Because of the importance of the executive procedure, I believe that these changes and additions that were in front of us today and that we discussed were absolutely adequate. Therefore, it will work to levelen court practice, accordingly, to improve the position of participants in the executive procedure. So if we view this bill as a whole, with all the other elements of the legal system, we should give it support because the application of these standards, I'm quite sure, will give certain results. I say once again that you have strong support for this bill by the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-1.u59098	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Given that there are no more statements to be made, I conclude a principled review of the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. First of all, I would like to thank proposer Nelli Kuburovic, minister of justice, as well as her associates for a constructive debate today. I hope we continue in the same tone during the amendment debate. With work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue tomorrow, so on Tuesday, July 23rd, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
