ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-22-0.u58976	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 115 peoples. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have working conditions, i.e. voting conditions. Just be quiet, if the microphone isn't good, I'll talk to you in a better way. We're moving on to a decision on the motions of the law from the point. From the 1st to the 5th agenda. I am putting on the vote of the draft amending law and supplementing the Law on the regulation of the long-standing Republic of Serbia under the basis of the unpaid foreign currency savings of the citizens of the former republics whose head office is based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, their branches on the territory of the former republics of the SF, in principle. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than 8 days from the day of its publication. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 138 against. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting on the vote of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the regulation of the long-standing Republic of Serbia under the basis of the unpaid foreign currency savings laid down by the Bank of which is based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and its subsidiaries on the territories of the former republics of the sprawl, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in general. I'm putting on the vote of the Proposed Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Reciprocal Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I'm putting on a vote on the proposed trade law, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote, no one voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: for - two MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the 28th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. Finalizing vote: for - five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 28th MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to vote. I'm closing the vote: he didn't vote for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to MEP 28, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 31st member of Parliament, Zoran Despotovic. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 31st Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic vote. Finalizing vote: for - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 34 to the amendment of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 35th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 35th Parliament of the Rose Nikolic vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 37th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. Finalizing vote: for - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 37th MEP, Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 37th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the 38th Parliament of the Verita Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 40th MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put amendments to the title above the 41st MP, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 41st Parliament of the Faith Radeta vote. I'm closing the vote. No one has accepted this amendment because no one has voted against or against or abstained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 41st MP Dubravko Bojic vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 41st Parliament member, Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the 41st Member of Parliament, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 41st Parliament member Natasa Sp Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to MEP 42, Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 44th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 45th Parliament member, Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 46th MEP, Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 48th MEP, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 48th MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 48th MP, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on MP Filip Stojanovic's 51st. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to MEP Marijan Risticevic's 51st. Finalizing vote: for - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 55th MEP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 56th Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Parliament's 57th member, Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: yes - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to the 59th Parliament member, Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the 59th Parliament of the Prophet Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 59th MP, Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 61st Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. Finalizing vote: for - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 65th Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic vote. Finalizing vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 67th Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 68th legislator Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 69th Parliament of Ruzica Nikolic to vote. I'm closing the vote: he didn't vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 70th Amendment of Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 70th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. Finalizing vote: for - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on trade in general. Finalising vote: for – 141. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a trade law. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the e-commerce law, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I am putting the amendments to MEP Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: for - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to Member 1 Dubravko Bojic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to MEP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to MEP 3 Zoran Despotovic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to MEP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 4th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 5th Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 6th MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 7th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. I'm closing the vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 7th MEP, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to article 8 of Parliamentarian Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 9th MP Filip Stojanovic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to the 10th Parliament of the Verica Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 142 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade. I'm putting it to vote on the proposal of the slave stock exchange law, in principle. Finalising vote: for - 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to MEP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Member 1 Dubravko Bojic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Parliament 1st, Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - two MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 2 of Legislative Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 2 of Ms. Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to section 2 of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 2nd MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 2nd MP Alexander Seselj's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Member of the 3rd MP Dubravko Bojic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Parliament's 3rd, Ms. Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP 4 Milorad Mircic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th MEP, Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 5th MP, Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 6th MP, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 6th Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 7th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. I'm closing the vote: for - two MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 8th MP Tomislav Ljubenovic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 of Parliamentarian Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 9th MP Filip Stojanovic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 9th MP, Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 9 of Parliament Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Ms. Verita Radeta's 9th Parliament vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 9th Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP 12, Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP 17, Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the 18th Parliament of the Prophet Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, with the correction of MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 21st Parliament member, Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 22 to vote, with the correction of MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on the 23rd MP, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to MEP 26, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 27th Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević's vote. I'm closing the vote: for - three MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 31st MP Nikola Savic to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting a vote on a bill on stock exchanges, in general. I conclude the vote: for -141 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted one of the totals of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on stock exchanges. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic on 17 July at 16 pm and 10 minutes pointed to injuries. 27th and 107th. I'm asking you to decide that. No one joined the vote. I find that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am concluding the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Please be back in the O.R. at 10.00 hours. Let's get back to work and start a new session. Thank you.
