ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62723	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 45 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Ljiljana Malusic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Snezana Paunovic. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2019. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Darko Komnenic, V.d. Assistant Minister of Finance, Prof. Dr. Saša Trandafilović and Zoran Milosevic, V.d. Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Dragana Kalinović, Director of the Republic Fund for PIO, Milesa Marjanovic, Head of Finance Ministry Department Olivera Ružić Popovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Luka Tomic, Head of the Office of Finance Minister. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON DECLARATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AMENDMENT DECISION AND THE SUPPLEMENT OF THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE REPUBLIC FUND FOR THE PIO FOR 2019. A year. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 199(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the draft decision on granting consent to the Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2019, which was submitted by the Government. I'm asking if the proposing's representatives want a word. Yeah. ) The word has Zoran Djordjevic, Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62724	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, is ahead of you with a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2019. Starting from the fact that the difficult fiscal consolidation measures gave positive results and that the main objective has been achieved, the financial stability of public finances, as well as the improved situation in terms of funding and pension payments, real conditions have been created to further improve the position of pensioners and other pension and disability insurance rights. In order to ensure the standard conditions and the appropriate financial space for the payment of the monetary amount as an increase in pension, as well as the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's conclusion, it is necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the Finance Plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2019. The total revenue and revenue of the Fund, i.e. expenditure and expenditure The proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Fund’s 2019 financial plan was set at 668.14 billion dinars, which is more than the amount foreseen by the Fund’s 2019 financial plan. Those additional resources provided by the decision relate to the payment of financial assistance to pensioners and to the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's conclusion. Under one, the payment of financial assistance to pensioners is governed by Article 171(3) and (4). The PIO Act, which provides that the Fund’s funds can be extremely used for the payment of financial assistance to pensioners when such assistance is needed by a large number of users and that this payment of financial assistance is made in the amount determined by the Government, taking into account the balance sheet options of the Fund. The rebalancing of the financial plan allows all pensioners, temporary benefits to disabled persons of the second and third categories of disability, i.e. remaining work capacity in accordance with Articles 223 and 225. The Law on PIO and invalid children and beneficiaries of the temporary fee with the Fund shall make payment of financial assistance of 5,000 dinars. The rebalance of the payment plan with the accompanying payment costs provides funds totaling 8.7 billion dinars. The implementation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's conclusion concerns the conclusions which, in accordance with Article 77. The Privatisation Act, the conversion of the Fund's claim on the basis of unpaid contributions to PIO in the permanent role of participation in the capital of the Privatisation Entity, is a link between staff. The original planned value of conversion is six billion dinars. In January – August of the current year, conversions amounting to 2.9 billion dinars were made, and by the end of the year, a total of 7.06 billion dinars are expected to be realised, so the rebalance of the value of the conversion on the side of revenues and expenditure in 2019 increases by 3.96 billion dinars to a total of 9.96 billion dinars. The payment of the financial assistance was provided in accordance with the Fund's balance sheet options, thanks to the achievement of revenue from the contribution to PIO in the higher amount than planned in January – August of the current year, as well as the lower execution of expenditure, primarily on the basis of forced payments by court disputes. The funds of the conversion are contained in the same amount on the part of the revenue and income and expenditure of the Fund. What is visible on the part of the income of the Republic Fund PIO is a changed financing structure of the Fund. As a result of better payment of contributions to PIO and other revenues, the amount of contributions needed from the budget for expenditure financing has been reduced. Contribution revenues for PIO were planned totalling 475.59 billion dinars and were higher by 2.41%) and 11.19 billion dinars respectively compared to the initially planned amount, in line with the first eight months of the current year. The planned original revenue from the contribution to PIO is covered by 71.18% of planned expenditure and expenditure in 2019. In addition, other revenues and incomes have been increased by 311.1 million dinars for the first eight months. The positive developments also show planned transfers from the budget, grants for missing funds for regular pension payments and other entitlements amount to 173.72 billion dinars and were reduced compared to initially planned by 7.42 billion dinars in order to better achieve income from contributions to pension and disability insurance compared to originally planned. The proposed changes reduce the share of budget transfers in total revenues and revenues from 27.44% to 26%. It is known that from previous discussions on missing funds for pension payments and other rights, it was necessary to transfer to the budget and more than 40% of the funds to cover those expenditures over a period of time. The fall to 26% is a significant shift, which is directly reflecting and stabilising the situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget. These positive results gave the necessary space for all pensioners to make a payment of money aid of 5,000,00 dinars. This is very important because it shows that all the measures taken by the government in the fight against the grey economy and increasing employment yield positive results. Also, the next period is expected to further improve the control function and collection of social security contributions under the authority of the Tax Administration, by further stabilising the operations of the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. As part of the expenditure of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the initially planned amount for pension payments and other pension and disability insurance rights has been reduced by 2.3 billion dinars, primarily due to the decline in the number of users in January-August of the current year. Under these funds, the estimate of the implementation of the net pension expenditure is 548.8 billion dinars, a reduction of 2.1 billion dinars, or 0.4% compared to the original plan, so it gives us additional fiscally free. As stated under other pension and disability insurance rights, increased funds to pay out all users for a total of 8.7 billion dinars. Finally, the planned amount on behalf of expenditure for supporting the implementation of the fund's 2.3 billion dinar operations has been reduced, most of which include reduced expenditure on forced payments for two billion dinars due to lower execution in the first eight months. I must express my satisfaction by proposing to the National Assembly a decision on the amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, which will positively reflect the improvement of the standards of our pensioners. I am particularly pleased that this is the result of positive movements in the country's economy and I am sure that other measures will follow that will directly reflect the improvement of the standards of pensioners and the wider, overall population of our country. For this reason, I propose that you support the proposal for that decision in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62725	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62726	I expected someone else to sign up and I'd talk later, but here's a chance to say a few words about what's been said here. We're talking about a serious topic. The theme is pensions, security and stability of our Pension Fund. This is a very important topic because it is 1.7 million pensioners living in our country who expect concrete results from us MPs. We are now giving these concrete results, and we are talking about them in the congregation. First of all, when we talked about budget rebalancing, be assured that then the SDPS made it clear that it would support these activities in helping pensioners at 5,000. We don't underestimate that help. We think it's very important and it's very important at this point, because it's a sign that our PIO fund is a stable fund, that pensioners don't need to worry about what happens to pensions. They will certainly be paid as they have been on time. What's most important right now is that the government adopted so-called yesterday. "Switzerland formula." This formula means a long-term project, meaning that pensions will go according to the growth that is happening in our country's economy and that pensioners will feel better in this growth of our economy. That our economy is growing, that we have positive effects, especially in collecting contributions, taxes and stability of the total budget, this shows these results presented by Minister Djordjevic in his presentation, saying the pension fund is being filled. I mean, I know the time, and I've been in the pension fund's administrative hold for a long time, and I know what the situation was like. Pensions were then, pension bonuses were somewhere above 40%, 48% were donated from the budget, and now we've reached 26%. That's a big score. What's the big score? It means that employment is going at high rates, that that 10% employment rate is one significant rate. The decline below 10% will mean that our PIO fund has additional stability, with fewer pension grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The fact that they have reached 26% of the budget is very important. In most European countries, donations go somewhere to 25% of the pension funds budget. For Serbian citizens to know, we don't have the funds in advance for some kind of fund so that suddenly pensions can be paid off. Citizens who work single out their contributions and on the basis of these withdrawals, pensioners receive their due pensions, because at a given time when they were in a working relationship and exposed themselves, gave themselves away the funds for pensions that they should now have. What is very important, the harmonisation of pensions that will now be based on the Swiss formula, and I hope that we will already have this law at the next session, will mean in the long term that pensioners will no longer be dependent on any decision by any government, but will be a very important instrument that will allow pensions to be brought into line with the growth of our economy. Our economy is growing, therefore the pensioners will be able to be in a position to really be sure of their incomes, and you know, even though someone will say that five thousand is not some big sum, we still allocate nine billion dinars from the funds that we have earned. So we're not in debt, we're not in debt, we're not in debt, we're giving up nine billion assets that our economy earned during this period in 2019. It was also the basis of our financial consolidation, because we just said that we would do anything to have stable state finances, and right now we have them. I'm gonna take this opportunity to say something about the PIO fund at all. Why? It is often considered to be just an administration, whose primary task is to share solutions and to allocate funds. No, I don't. Pension and disability insurance is very important, a fund that exists very well works and that is what needs to be highlighted. He's doing well, he's handling the funds well, and we think that's where we can take further steps as far as the PIO Act is concerned. Why can it be done? The fund also pays contributions to health care and health insurance for pensioners. There's about eight billion going around. You know, if we shut it down, if the state gave it to the Health Insurance Fund directly from the budget, then these 26% of the donations would be reduced to somewhere behind 20%. It's a very important thing. The other thing that we were talking about, it's the property of the PIO fund. It is often neglected, often spoken of in very negative contexts. We need to see what the pensioners are, and when the funds were full, when the funds were allocated for a certain asset, first of all, I mean the spas, to see how it could be valorized and, of course, after privatizing the spas, putting into full operation, those funds back to the pension-inhabitation fund. This allows pensions to continue to go up, i.e. to make less donations from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I expect that in the 2020 budget, whose debate we expect very quickly, we will have very clear and precise data on the pension funds allocated and whether it is possible to see some donations to the pensioners in the coming period, because the faster the pensioners go, the more money they earn, the more employees have to feel it, but also the pensioners, of course, in accordance with those proportions that we have achieved, which is that the pension GDP allocations cannot exceed 11%, because this means further distortion of relations. I would like to stress that the SDPS in the voting day will be pleased to vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62727	Thank you, colleague Miatovic. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62728	Ladies and gentlemen, when the Serbian Parliament makes financial decisions, in principle, it makes decisions concerning the Republic of Serbia's budget. The key mechanism for the functioning of the budget and fiscal policy in the state of Serbia, as well as in every country, is the budget, as the budget serves to address financial problems. But the Serbian Parliament makes decisions concerning not only the budget, but the general state budget. Serbia's assembly is there to make decisions concerning and functioning the general state, but at the same time to make decisions concerning all public expenditures and revenues, i.e. all public issues and payments at the level of the Serbian state. When we're discussing today a law concerning the Republic Pension Insurance Fund, then we're actually doing one thing. This law is deeply linked to financial policy, fiscal policy and the Republic Insurance Fund is certainly part of the process. He is in co-ordination with both the Republic's budget and public expenditures and can't imagine any functioning of the republican pension system without any correlation with financial policy. Without fiscal stability, there is no stability of the pension system. That's how it's imagined in our practice. Simply, we have a pension system based on Bismarck's model, which implies that pensions are not paid out of pension funds, they are paid by current incomes. Practically, we have current incomes that are the main source of pensions in Serbia. If you don't have financial and macroeconomic stability, then you have a problem with pension stability. Two key sources of funding in the state of Serbia for pensions are certainly – the pension fund and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, we as a state of Serbia, due to a lack of financial resources, are not in a situation where we can endure paying off regular pensions in the past. So fiscal policy meant that the changes that were happening were made in a significant segment and this progress is certainly visible. Pension funds in the state of Serbia do not exist and they did not exist in the 1970s, the 1980s, or the 1990s. They're out there somewhere. That's not the case with all the countries in the world. Practically, in all developed and highly developed countries you have pension funds. These pension funds are used to invest primarily in different forms of funding, while at the same time they are the basic source of income generated and where pensions are paid. In addition to pension payments, incomes generated on the primary, or secondary financial market are the basic source of pension payments. That's not how it's in the state of Serbia. Public revenues, in fact, are generational agreements, generational agreements between different generations in one country. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, and all budgets, in fact, consists of three parts – from, above all, the inherited financial resources that come from older and earlier generations, from what the state of Serbia has created in one period of time and what we will borrow and what we borrow from future generations. The pension system generally serves to provide a safe source of funding for older generations, according to Bizmark's model and according to Beveridežev's model, to ensure safe age, or to reduce poverty levels for older populations. But Serbia, or pensioners in Serbia, had no luck and did not share such privileges as the pension populations in other countries. Practically, their fate and pension payments were related to the functioning of the Serbian state. In the 1990s, it is practically difficult to talk about a pension system when parts of Serbia, or all of Serbia, were at war at certain times. When you don't have any conditions to run economic policy, macroeconomic policy and financial policy, then it's hard to talk about the system of pensions in the 1990s. From 5 October to 2008 you have practically one complete misunderstanding of the pension system and pension problem. You have a series of processes that have economically reversed Serbia. You have a privatisation process, you have a process that meant hundreds of thousands of people are out of work. Practically, not all key economic issues were closed, and pensioners and pensioners were at risk. In 2003, it tried with the Swiss model, but already in 2006, it gave up, not because Serbia was not able to finance its pensions, but because you had the wrong and bad economic policy. In 2008, laws and changes that may have allowed individual pensioners to feel better, but those decisions were completely contrary to the pension system and to the fiscal capabilities of the Serbian state. Practically, the state of Serbia, its fiscal system, its economy, could not withstand the pressure. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been shut down from 2008 to 2012. Hundreds of receipts have been lost, hundreds of taxes lost, hundreds of thousands of basic sources for retirement payments. That's why this system was not possible and it was not sustainable. At the end of 2012, the state of Serbia found itself in the general problem of indifference. In practice, we have come into a situation not to lead a reform and decide on pension changes, but we have not been in a situation based on financial resources or on this pension to pay off. The changes that followed in 2014 were, above all, key developments. Alexander Vuci, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, practically changed economic policy and contributed to the functioning of the Serbian state. It is not disputed that all Serbian citizens have borne the burden of the wrong economic policy and the wrong decisions in the previous period of time. But 60% of the pensioners had no consequences for the pension cuts. A large number, nearly 80% had a relatively small reduction, from 60 to 80, 20%, but pensioners were the first population to practically feel the benefits and key benefits of fiscal reform and fiscal change in 2014. We've increased pensions by 1.25% already in 2015. In 2016, the government of the Republic of Serbia did so at 1.5%, in 2017 by 5%, 2018 and 2019, pensions rose from 5% to 22%. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the government of the Republic of Serbia allocated specific financial resources that were a one-time aid to pensioners. In 2017, the amount was paid to all pensioners, to them a million and 700 out of 5,000 dinars, in 2018 3,000 dinars. The decision we are voting on today and which we are discussing today is on the verge of this process. When we talk about pension growth, in fact, we need to connect to wage growth, because these are two social justice processes and the social functioning of the Serbian state. Serbia's minimum salary rose from 16,000 to 30,000 years ago. The average salary will be 500 euros in the state of Serbia at the end of November. This is the result of salary increases both in the real sector and in the country's largest employer. The state of Serbia, the Serbian government is making a number of efforts to make wage growth and social policy as acceptable and as good as possible. When you look at the basic source of salary growth in Serbia, it is foreign direct investment. Serbia is a leader in the region by foreign direct investment. This year's investments in Serbia will go beyond three billion, as will previous years. This is the main reason why there is an increase in wages in the state of Serbia. Simply, competition on the labour market is increasing. With the creation of tens of thousands of new jobs, both in the real sector and in the foreign direct investment sector, the labour price is practically increasing, and we see it best in the indicators concerning, above all, the incomes relating to pension contributions. As never in history, Serbia's 71.8% pension commitments, which are realised on the basis of the labour tax, are met. Only 26% are donations coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is what we are paying for, and about 71% are funds that are direct from the Pension Insurance Fund. The revenues have been increased by 2.41%) or 11 billion in the Republic Pension Insurance Fund, and that only says that in the next period of time, we should actually apply a conservative method of planning, because it is clear that both the Republic of Serbia's budget and pension income, as well as other taxes are growing thanks to the fact that our economy is growing. From January 2020, the state of Serbia will increase pensions from 5% to 22%. It is a new growth for the oldest population in Serbia. The average rate to increase the maximum number of pensions is 7%. Each, out of millions and 700,000 pensioners, will receive 5,000 dinars and will receive an increase in pensions from 1 January 2020. Since 1 January 2020, as my colleagues have said, we are entering the Swiss model of pension increases. What we started in 2003 and left because of the wrong economic policy in 2006. Pensions will increase 50% based on an inflation rate increase. Another 50% will increase based on an increase in nominal wage growth. I have to disappoint the pensioners. Thanks to monetary and stable fiscal policy, inflation in Serbia is now at EU level and moving around 2%. So those in 2020 can expect a 1% pension growth based on 50% inflation growth, but certainly the state of Serbia increases wages and wage growth is significant, so the 2020 increase, 2021, as well as 2022, will be high. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, is influencing and making decisions that help to function the entire economic system, hence pension systems. When the state of Serbia, when one population and the Assembly single out financial resources, no matter how much financial resources for the oldest and youngest are never allocated enough, neither in Switzerland nor in Norway that single out much more. It's not enough, because economic past is the essence of the economy, because the future is also the essence of the economy. As much as we stand out for basic needs, for wages and pensions, for Serbia, we are in fact singled out for its economic growth and development. When the Serbian Parliament, when MPs, when my generation in the Serbian Parliament votes to make, sometimes they tell us, difficult decisions, sometimes they tell us easy decisions that contribute to increasing personal consumption, we actually vote that Serbia looks different. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honor and a great pleasure to see you present and vote in favour of decisions that contribute to increasing the standard of living for Serbian citizens in the last month. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62729	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has the president of the PS parliamentary group, NSS, USS, MP George Komlenski. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62730	I thank you, chairman, friends and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the P.S. MP group, the NSS, the USS will be happy to support and vote in favour of this motion for a decision. Namely, my esteemed colleagues, who spoke before me, and Mr. Djordjevic, in one very precise way and professionally explained both the basics and the reasons and from which space these funds were provided that would be used for one-time assistance, for about a million and 700 thousand pensioners. I'm going to talk about this from one another, and I'm going to talk about this from a much closer point of view, and I'm going to talk about the easier angle for discussion, which is the view of the PS that this country really has to take care of, primarily, the most vulnerable and most vulnerable categories. This, through politics, since 2012, in which we can contribute as much as we can, to make it even more quality and better, is clearly shown and made clear. Nine billion dinars, or more than nine billion dinars, are not small funds at all. When we realize that these are not the funds that are borrowed, that they are not the funds that come from a loan, that they are not imaginary funds, but are the funds that have emerged as an surplus in relation to the projected revenues, precisely by hiring, both the finance ministries and all those professional services of the republican authorities and administrations, which are working to raise funds, but they could be effective and good and provide these funds only under a condition fulfilled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to raise themselves to the level of financial stability, to raise economic growth and to raise production volumes. It would be demagogue to say that pensions should be raised much faster and much more. Of course it is true and of course it should, but I think it is quite clear to both pensioners and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this assembly of parliament, fortunately, is not in a position to pass the laws proposed by the government, which would endanger the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia. We've given up enough of these seven years to achieve one serious stability, one serious way to finance the budget, to allow itself to just so populistly give in, ruin everything that's been done. You know, in 2012, it looked like an impossible mission, and I'm afraid, if something like that were to happen again and if some kind of assets were to be shared that weren't earned and that weren't real, then going back to Serbia, when it came to economics, economics, development, and therefore one normal life to this Republic wouldn't be possible. Someone's gonna say five thousand dinars is nothing. I can't watch it that way. If someone receives a pension of 24, 25 thousand dinars, then five thousand dinars best know what it will mean to him, and not only will they know how much it means to him, which it helps him, but it is simply a category of population that absolutely understands the need for rationality, for one serious approach, for one stable way of funding, and that is exactly the category of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who had to pay along with all of us here, in the most part, and Serbia would not go bankrupt in 2012. The loudest opponents of this fiscal policy, this approach to solving social problems, this way of resolving payouts, the orderly pension payments and their increases are precisely those who have least felt what the austerity and stabilisation measures have been implemented. They were completely concerned, because by 2012, they had been stockpiling enough, finished everything they wanted and knew, so they simply didn't touch the austerity measures, and they just brought us to the edge of the ambis. They are now the loudest opponents of the way in which the situation in the Republic of Serbia is improving with one dosed and stable step. We can't say that in Serbia, everything is wonderful, wonderful, that this is a country where everyone has no worries, but what we can safely say, after these seven years, is that Serbia is certainly a country where there is a more peaceful, stable, more normal living, a country that has stepped on its feet, a country that moves forward safely. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, now I'm going to do a little depression that for a moment seems to have nothing to do with this agenda point, but driving a car through Belgrade the other day, at a very long light, one person approached the car and begged for financial assistance. I must say, I noticed that only the windows were opened for those who were driving the South, the flag, some old car. I didn't notice on the angry cars that anyone opened the window, showed solidarity, showed compassion, and probably for him it was far more unimportant than those who did. I'm saying this for one simple reason, that those who are being torn away for free, for no reason saying that this is some kind of populist measure, that pensions have to increase much faster and pay by not knowing what kind of model, they have to understand that there are people in Serbia who know what solidarity is, who know what stability, who are fully aware that their pensions are one part of today because by 2012, a huge number of companies have not paid off their work experience, because many companies have for no reason ended up in bankruptcy, liquidation, robbery privatisation and instead of having their job experience and other basics paid to the extent to which they have earned their salaries, many have no fully connected standing, and many are connected with their minimum earnings. All this reflects on these people who are absolutely with this government, knowing that austerity, diligence, work and pawning are the only way to get to a stable state, to a stable pension fund, and we will continue to absolutely advocate and support a methodology that will primarily and gradually increase these lowest pensions, to provide them with a way and opportunity to live better. Those who have large pensions will have to be a little patient, if we have an impact on all of this, so that everyone in Serbia can truly live well and satisfactorily one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62731	I thank my colleague Komlenski. The word has the deputy president of the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I honestly didn't think I was talking, and I won't explain why, but I think the discussions that followed have shown quite a one-sided approach to the problem of pensioners and pensioners in general, unilaterally in terms of what the increase is going to be, which is the aid of 5,000 dinars that follows, we see more from the aspect of the sign and the symbolism of the state's economic strengthening and that it can do now to pensioners in a material sense what it does. And there's no talking here. That's clear and that's true. But we have another problem that goes back many years. You remember when privatisation was announced, the broad we later called a robbery, justified, and above all a robbery compared to the pensioners, because it was shyly announced, and none of it was realized that the privatisation process would require pensioners as creators and builders of these state and any other goods that were intended and should be privatized. As you know, none of it was, nor did anyone mention anything like that, not during the privatisation, not many years after, when everything and everything was criticised about such privatisation, there was never a mention of pensioners being damaged in that situation. Here today, one of the colleagues in the discussion was close to that question, and I expected it to start. No, it's not. What's he saying? It says that on one side, we have a country that is also thinking about pensioners, it doesn't matter how and in what way, whether it's quite good or it can be better, and we have a lot of people, and even here in the Assembly, who don't see the problem of millions and 740 thousand pensioners, which, if I'm not mistaken, is a third of the voting body, if nothing else, they don't look at in a complex or comprehensive sense. I'm gonna try to throw some stuff we need to think about. First, I'll mention 2014, you know why, because of the cuts and salaries and pensions. In this action, in this programme, I am not saying anything new, that is what the president of the state and the Prime Minister himself said 100 times publicly, quite justifiably, thank them for that, in this process most of all, the pensioners brought out on their backs. I'll say one more thing here on the way. I want to say that to remind those who don't think about it at all. We are all MPs here, representatives of certain parties and parties. I haven't thought a little bit about and talked to my colleagues about how many congregation parties or parties would have been in that situation as party leadership and as a party behind such or their full membership and the voters they count on would have stood at that moment behind such a difficult decision to cut pensions and I claim unfairly in the company with a reduction in wages. How? I'll say and remind you that the salaries were 10% reduced, and more than a third of the pensioners had a pension reduction of 22%, up to 25%, and you know that it was over, and if it wasn't, the other structures would have gone out on the street or I don't know what they were doing. That's one thing. We came back and we came back, thank God, with a good plan and a development programme and a country president's initiative, and we've come to the opportunity to raise our salaries and here we are in front of such a single decision. And what do you have in the situation? That someone who's been taken from retirement 22% to 25%, as I said, is now going to get a 5% increase and something, and only 10%, they're going to get from 9% to 15%. Why am I saying this? Please, in 2005, when we formed a party and I claim it, it's the only party that came from the mere necessity to save the naked existence and lives of the people, the pensioners. Why? Because in 2005, we had a situation where pensions came to 42%, average pensions relative to the average salary, and we had across Serbia the funeral of pensioners in plastic bags, because there was no money. We are now at this point relative to the average salary of 49.1% before this projected increase. If we get an increase like we predicted, we're going to have a drop in the difference between the average pension and the average salary, probably up to 45%, we're still going to bring it down. We're getting closer and I'm afraid if we keep this up, we'll get closer to the situation I mentioned in 2005, and if we don't get close to 45% of the average pension. It's a key problem. Let's look at what we've done in the long process of improving the economy and trying to keep doing it. Some have mentioned here with good intentions to repair the pensioner's position. What are we going to do and what is the relationship then of two categories of society, first categories of society and second, second-class citizens, or pensioners, and it will have an average of more than double that of this second-rate. Let us consider both the social effect and the justice in society and the same situation that the state needs to give in every respect to all the citizens of its country and many other things. I think we're looking at this thing rather unilaterally, and I think it's because of all this and many others, a mature situation for us to sit at a qualified level and a qualified social forum to raise the question of the total and material-financed and overall position of pensioners in this society and finally say about what perspective and fate awaits those who, in four, five, ten or fifteen years' time, finally and those who are employed, who can only hope that 40 years' work experience is ahead of them, so I guess in 40 years' time, something will change. But those who go away in a few years will hardly be able to come into a different position than the one we're in. There are countries in the world, we have learned this well in 2010, when we intend to start an association of European pension organisations, and then we have come to the data that you have, to mention only Austria, it is closest to us, the countries whose governments, besides all their other councils, have pension advice and no question directly or indirectly concerning pensioners, is considered by any government without that advice and before the advice does so. But I'm not surprised we don't have that, because we're not a country like we have some in the world, Japan and others, so we respect a pensioner when he retires. For us, the greatest creator in one area is widely known to the whole country, today valued as such, tomorrow signed a pension solution, from the day after tomorrow no one knows him, doesn't know him, doesn't exist in society. In the Japanese, to take them for example, a man retires, gets a pension solution and gets a solution that can keep working as much and as much as he can, in relation to the total capacity of the workers at best. Two things a country shouldn't drop, and they do it smartly. One is that you provide people not to become people of second order in society, whose creativity you recognize, and the other is that if they continue working with 50% or 30% of the capacity, it doesn't matter when you take a huge number of pensioners, they contribute to the healthy and creative development of the country, and we give up so easily. You meet people and they tell you he's a pensioner, so you tell him where your pensioner is, how you look, etc. And he doesn't do anything, he doesn't know what he's gonna do. So this is what I've expanded by wanting to confirm what I've proposed is the need for very important and very important issues for society, the overall retirement system, the ways, etc., to sit down and in society to well analyse it and put things on new ground. Thank you very much. I'd have a lot more to do, but I'm not wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62733	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Danica Bukvic. Here you go, colleague Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62734	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-worker, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, today we are talking about the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2019, which, by emergency procedure, is included in the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. An emergency procedure has been proposed because of the need to provide the necessary legal framework to finance the payment of the right to one-time assistance, financial assistance, all pensioners. Namely, this is another document that allows for the exercise of the additional rights of our citizens, this time it is the pensioners. In this 2019, according to data by August, Serbia's economy has shown growth. Foreign investment inflows and the realisation of major infrastructure projects across Serbia have brought more inflows into the Republic's budget than planned. This has also made it possible for the rebalance of the Republic budget, which we have recently adopted, to increase funding for some sectors, as well as to increase public sector wages, especially in areas that are very important for the development of society and the health and social situation of the population. Here I mean health and social protection, education, science and culture, as well as employees of local self-government and state administration. So it is being fulfilled, and in this way one of the social development objectives, which is to improve the economic and social situation of the population. The Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion proposing that all beneficiaries of pensions, beneficiaries of temporary benefits, i.e. persons with disabilities of work II and III of the disability category, as well as disabled children, beneficiaries of the temporary fee of the PIO Fund, be granted or paid one-off aid of 5,000 dinars. For this conclusion, the Government's legal basis is contained in the Law on PIO which stipulates that the financing of the Republic Fund for PIO can also be extremely used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners when such assistance is needed by a large number of users. According to the provisions of the law, the payment of financial assistance shall be made in the amount determined by the Government, taking into account the balance sheet options of the Republic PIO Fund. In line with these changes and additions to the PIO Fund's financial plan to pay cash aid with the accompanying costs of paying this aid, funds totalling 8.72 billion dinars have been provided. The payment of the financial assistance was provided thanks to the achievement of the revenue from the contribution to PIO in the higher amount than planned, in January-August 2019, as well as the lower execution of expenditure, primarily on the basis of forced payments by court disputes. Therefore, this financial surplus is the result of a positive balance of funds in the PIO Fund, i.e. the result of an increased employment rate. To remind us that in this year Serbia is a leader in the number of foreign direct investments, but this certainly contributed to the realisation of large infrastructure projects. Thus, the result of the positive budgetary developments, i.e. the achieved macroeconomic stability of our country. In that sense, the National Assembly agrees on the rebalancing of the PIO Fund's financial plan, which will pay our pensioners back this one-time aid in the coming month. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62735	Thank you, colleague Bukvic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a single search on the seventh item of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to remind you of the attempt, for who knows which time, the agenda we had at the beginning of this session again, by General Delic, because across the park, in Pioneer Park, the fighters, the wartime disabled, who yesterday told me they had a chance to talk to you in the rooms on Sava Street, but that they were left without a satisfactory solution, or a concrete proposal. It would be good, given that this issue falls within the scope of your portfolio, that it is also because of them, and because of the general public, you say something that combatants, wartime military people can expect to improve their position? Let's get back to the subject. Pensions have been reduced by about 800m euros in total. So far, we have had annual social assistance in addition to that increase, which was discussed by the previous speaker, ranging from three to five thousand per system of full identity. I gave all these social aids to others, from family with 11 children, through the charity fund of the church municipality in my village, to this advance for this payment of assistance to a single mother with three children by the encampment of the Chacan Association, to pay for electricity, because as a tenant they will be excluded and have problems with the landlord. I would like to join the discussion of the previous speaker, and I think that, given that I heard this morning in the morning "Dnevnik" that the government adopted yesterday a bill amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which will come here for discussion in the coming period, to ask you to tell me where the public debates were and during what period and do you have a list of representative organisations of pensioners that you provided a call for a public debate, or were public debates held only on Corridor 10 Novi Sad-Belgrad-Nish? Also, I'm a member of that generation that singled out 10% of my pension before I retired, and I singled out, or my pension was down to 25%, depending on my pension. I think it was done against the constitutional principle that all citizens of Serbia should make a proportionate contribution to their economic power to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why you as a minister and all the other employees in the state administration didn't stand out 20% or 25%, same as the pensioners, for the amount of salaries in proportion to pensions? Why are pensioners punished and discriminated against? I would also like to join the discussion of the predecessors that in the context of the upcoming adoption of this Amending and Supplemental Law on the PIO Fund, if pension is acquired property rights, is there any possibility that, given the budgetary stabilisation to resuscitate parts of pensions, at least subsectively? I have to tell you that for the second time, it's a statement that pensioners are buried in plastic bags, really, really devastating for the state. I think that this country was never, even then 2012, 2013 and 2014, in a situation that had to bury pensioners in plastic bags, as they are buried dead from infectious diseases. I don't think pensioners are contagious and should have been treated like that. The next question I want to nominate for the debate is minimum pension. How is it possible to pay the amount of pension below the minimum pension if the minimum pension pension is met? The second question is, how is it possible that discriminatory agricultural pensioners who have a 30% lower minimum pension than the minimum pension of retired persons in employers and independent entrepreneurs? The third question concerns the question I asked on the first day of this debate – the authority of the Director of the PIO Fund, you told me that it was about those decisions being made by the Board of Directors and not by the Director? Finally, I ask you to explain to me how the government intends, given the proposal that will be made, it is almost considered, the debt slavery of agricultural pensioners, we had one meeting in the Republic Government... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62737	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. I'll have to interrupt. There is a word, Proposer's representative, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62738	Mr. Chevarlic, I have to react because a series of untrues and flat-rates and I won't let you deceive the public first with that kind of information. The first thing, before we go and move on to the subject, to answer you as far as the subject is concerned, I can see that you have now shown great concern for fighters and veterans who have been forgotten for years by 2012, not only but also marginalized. You know for a fact that there are 40 laws and sublegal acts that regulate martial arts, veterinary issues, civil disability issues. These 40 laws, underlegal acts, were not passed by us, and it was very easy for them to be denied one right at a time of two thousand. Then none of you said, "Wait, for their right is lifted from those who fight. Ask these fighters who rightfully abolished them in 2006 and who asked them for that right. Now that the state has decided first to sublime all of this into one law, to make one roof law, that this roof law applies to them, and to know which ones they have, that today we are promoting just all those who fought for this country, not to be ashamed of it, to mark all the dates that matter for this country, not only from the past, although we and the past have forgotten that long ago, we have also forgotten those who fought in 1991, 1992, 1999, we forgot them all. So, by 2012, there were no words at all, as if we were ashamed of them. Now, when a group is standing there in front of the presidency, but I have to tell you, it's 0.1% and I'm standing behind it is 0.1%, since we're in contact with all of these 99.9% of the Union Association, which are... By the way, when this law was done, the Ministry's job was to sublime everyone into one law, and their task and they were in the task force, even those who strike there, or protest, they were in that task force that should have said what they wanted everything to be new in this law and what new rights, among other things, and some rights that they were right in 2006, which they were in power. Thirty-five new rights they said, and we didn't say any of them—don't, but we said—let's say anything you want to see what the state can do and how it can meet you. Now we have a group of people who are unhappy with some things that didn't come in because of those who were rationally thinking about what suggestions to make, and I'm going to tell you what their proposals are and why they're in the park. They are now seeking the law that the fighters have proposed to put out of force and to make some new ones. What does he want with it? Do they work in the interest of fighters or against fighters? That's what 99% should think about because they wrote that law and know who's working against who. What are they looking for? National pension. You think that's doable? They're asking for this law to be a regulated day for a fighter. First, the subject of the Fighter Act is not at all a day of fighting, which will be a day of combatants, let them decide, let them propose, there is a Law on State Holidays that can be, but cannot be regulated by this law by who is nor by the minister to propose it. Let's get back to this subject that you just said. When it comes to national pensions and the position of pensioners, and you're talking about it right now, burying in people's bags, I can't let you talk like that at all. First, if you want to court yourself and now you think the pensioners don't know what their position is, they know very well. And they know well that in the years 2000 to 2012, when prices were up to a little 11%, when the rate was up 11%, that when someone gave them a pension of 5%, 7%, 10% or frozen in 2009 and 2010, it nominally reduced them 20% of their pension. I ask you, and you be honest with me, because I'm not allowed to disclose information, and you tell me how much pension you had before it was passed, it means 2014 and what you have today, so be honest with the citizens of Serbia to tell me if you have less pension than you've had. And you don't and you won't say for sure. I'll tell you further, when it comes to pensions and things that are being solved in the country, so we want to give pensioners as much as the state can at a given time and that they are not excluded from everyone else. The weight and burden of what we have done and the weight and burden of the reforms we have done certainly stands for the pensioners. There is no situation where our President, the Prime Minister, any of the ministers doesn't exactly say that all citizens, and especially pensioners, have contributed that today we can talk about having a rebalancing, that we are giving a single aid of 5.00 dinars, and that it does not go out of credit and borrowing, but comes from real income. If we were able to fight the grey economy, hire more people, never have less unemployment, have higher incomes, and want to share these incomes with just the ones most responsible for what these reforms have done, and these are pensioners. And, if that's the case, I'm just asking you not to put out any flat-rate sightings, because that's how you deceive the public. When it comes to budget rebalance, budget rebalance has been passed and is not going to public debate. In a public debate, we need to discuss the numbers and say who, where, what. When it comes to the Retirement and Disabilities Act, it has been and there will be a public debate and we have debated and we will deliver it to you when it is explained where and what. As far as the director's decisions are concerned, I told you that the director makes decisions under the Budgetary System Act, where the directors are authorized to manage the funds. Whenever the director makes a decision, the Management Board, in its report, he reports to the Management Board on everything, and the Management Board makes financial and legal decisions and proposes it to the Government, where he proposes how and how to spend the funds. When it comes to spending the funds, the spending plan shall, in particular, be carried out by the Management Board. So the decision-making system and the control system are in place. There's no option that someone in the PIO fund has that power that he decides for himself. In doing so, even if everything, which is impossible, it must come to the verification of the resolution ministry, to look at the professional people in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and only then send them to the government and only you here to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62739	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62740	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't see any reason why you're so gunned down. First of all, I don't alarm the public. I listened carefully to a statement from the PUPS MP when he said earlier in one session that pensioners were buried in plastic bags. At the time, I was unbehavied, and I didn't react at all. Today, however, a representative of the PUPS reiterated it. So, by repeating what has been said before by other MPs, I cannot possibly disturb the public. Don't apply one reaction criterion to me, and according to the representatives of your ruling majority, don't apply another criterion. That I don't think is right and I think the public sees it. In spite of that, I'd like you to explain to me why pensioners have to pay pension contributions, for a disabled understanding, and over 15 years of internships if that doesn't affect their pensions? I'm talking about farmers' pensioners and I'm talking about why the pension base for farmers' pensioners is a system of equations. It is the same for those who have half ha of agricultural land and those who have two and a half thousand hectares of agricultural land, how many statistics record as the largest interval group. That's 15,000 times. I'd like you to tell me, since the finance minister at the previous session didn't want to announce, what hundred of the biggest taxpayers and how much of their debts are affecting the state of the pension fund? The government is required through its state-owned authority, the tax administration, to deliver that information. We want to know. I don't mind any of the discussions that were related here to one foreign television and I supported it, but, please, is there any other television that doesn't pay contributions with a national frequency? Is there a company that gets state subsidies and doesn't pay contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62741	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62742	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. If someone says there is a funeral in plastic bags, then such an MP risks even getting a warning. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, peasant pensions suck. They're often lower than social aid. The message is very bad – it is better to be a social case than a farmer. Why? When my colleague talked about it, my colleague who suffers from the village but not in the country, who has a very decent pension, should have said why it happened. During the rule of the former regime and the DSS, whose list he is also elected, a crazy law has been passed, that the retirement internship of agriculture should be paid for all household members on agricultural land subject to contributions to the PIO. This resulted in 250 billion dinar debts because people could not pay PIO and health insurance to all household members, especially PIO. Such a busy commitment has caused these debts. Today, despite the most budget payments, which will certainly be confirmed by the minister, the pensions of farmers lower than social assistance, which means that the dubiosis is so much so that at this point you have for the health care of insurance companies only 92,000. Because of the debts, people stopped paying PIO insurance, and it's time to find out that pensions are earned, that they're not given away, but my colleague doesn't know. While he's so critical, he needs the 63,000 euros he took from the Stara Planina agricultural project, and now that we're supposed to go to the Stara Planina, he chose to go to Moscow, so the man in the folk costume should have known that for 63,000 euros, 650 agricultural pensions could be paid. He slowly put it in his own pocket for one day which was not in the folk costume or could be paid 320 average pensions in the Republic of Serbia, so it should have been a little self-critical and said – we were making money during the yellows and so the pensions are now so small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62743	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Miladin Ševarlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62744	Mr. Chairman, I don't think you should allow falseness. The previous speaker delivered the document to you, so he announced yesterday at a meeting, in which you can see that these are not my receipts, but that these are the receipts for a project that he worked on by far more participants, both from abroad experts and ours. So, what did they get their fees from, especially, foreign participants who have a minimum fee per day, if they are not paid out of it? My total receipts based on work on the project, including travel expenses and all other fees, amounted to about 4,500 euros for the period from 2010 to 2012, so it is absolutely untrue. I do not want to use the term that others exist as synonym in Serbian. Secondly, I already don't know which time you and the previous chairman were to belittle people wearing a national costume, and no one thought to draw attention to the participants of the parade so-called. pride, which only abused Serbia's national costume, not national costumes and other citizens and nationalities in Serbia. Finally, when it comes to the presence or the absence of the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture in Srlig, I am sorry, please, I, as a non-partisan and independent MP, have the right to decide when, where and how I will take part in the sessions. I think I'm one of the most regular members present at the Committee's sessions and one of the more active at any point in the discussion without talking about proposals. I'm not the only member of the Agriculture Committee who was absent from the session in Srlig. Here I am looking at a colleague who was with me in Moscow. Why should I be discriminated against him? Don't act like one. I'm tolerated enough. Yesterday, I didn't want to react so I wouldn't cause any bigger replicas, but there's plenty of more lies and untruths to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62745	Comrade Chevarlich, I'm too tolerant of you, at least when it comes to this announcement. First of all, according to Article 103, you did not point out which member you are calling for when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure and I did not want to interrupt you, because I have no intention and I never do. On the other hand, counterpart Marijan Risticevic, I think we had a debate last week, provided precise and clear data, and they are part of the Stenographic Notes Assembly. The third thing, I didn't notice anyone in the National Assembly was talking about a national costume. On the contrary, I realized it completely diametrically contrary to the way you understood it. Since I can't ask you if you'd like to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't even point to a member, and I've allowed you to talk so much about my tolerance. Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure again to replicate a colleague who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you wish to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then call for a specific member. That's how much you should know. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a farmer, I'm a little literate, so I'm going to name the member, the basis for which I'm reporting. Article 103 of Rule 4 - The MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure has been injured. It's the first basis. And Article 108, on the agenda of the National Assembly, is the president of the National Assembly. Of course, a colleague deliberately bypassed everything, but his confession is precious. So, he admitted that as a member of the Committee between the obligations to represent his parliamentary group in a committee that no longer exists, remember, which is no longer there. We are a democratic parliament, we and outside the process of democracy allow individual MPs to have the rights they have lost. Now listen to me carefully, tell Mr. Chevarlic that independent MPs cannot be members of the Committee. He is a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in front of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia – Dvori. Let Bosko Obradovic chase the streets, when he threatens to slap, when he pulls the signs, when he enters RTS, etc., it was the bearer of the electoral list in front of Dveri, on a list called DSS – Dveri. The election list and the Dveri parliamentary group, remember, was represented by Mr. Sevarlic in the Committee on Agriculture. Now the host organisation, which sent him as a host, where he suddenly changed into a folk costume, celebrated Vidovdan, Serbs do not celebrate Vidovdan, but mark him, so he now claims to be there as an independent. Here, and Mr. Martinovic, we all know, it's impossible. But one confession is precious, he admitted that between peasants on the Old Mountain and defending their particular interests, it is about areas that Milija calls marginal, with difficult working conditions, but chose to go to Moscow as a member of the Committee. He admitted it. Secondly, on the project, he now admitted to getting the money, and he said it wasn't, but that it wasn't just for him, but also for some foreign consultants. The only foreign consultant was an Iranian, and the funds for him asked for an additional one. So, he asked for extras, like we're gonna grow pistachios here. Last one, I'm done with this. So, the 63,000 euros, I repeat, were 650 agricultural pensions and 320 average pensions. Our pensions didn't grow because these, whose list he was, were firing people, thus reducing the PIO fund and farmers and employees, and because they were pulling money into their pockets, they weren't leaving them behind for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62747	Thank you. My colleague Rističević, you have called on Article 103 of Article 4 and Article 108. That's an explanation I've just told my colleague Shevarlic. As far as the distribution of membership in committees is concerned, the National Assembly decides that, as chairman, I would not. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Comrade Chevarlic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miladin Ševarlic: Replica, mentioned me.) ) Comrade Chevarlic, I really don't have the time as chairman to remind you today which time I remind you that you have to know the rules of the Rules of Procedure carefully and clearly. You can't have a replica of a specified breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's all you need to know. That's why we continue with the order of MPs according to the application for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I will say this later and in the second phase as authorized, I will give my time to a man who also fights for the interests of a farmer, Mr Miletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62749	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic, here you are, a colleague of Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62750	Thank you. The People's MPs of the Justice and Trust Party will also support this decision for the reason it is in the interest of Serbian citizens, especially those categories that need to be met and which should be helped in every way, when the opportunities allow it. I will take advantage of the opportunity to point out one fact that is closely linked to this decision and about, as this decision tries to make life easier for citizens because of the bad decisions, the assessments that occurred in the past and which have led, unfortunately, to our citizens having a bad standard of living in certain segments. So what happened in the previous period, especially in the time of the previous regime, caused major problems for former workers and former people who directly participated in filling the PIO fund and who rightly expected that at a time when they deserved pensions they would be able to use what they had invested for years. So I'm talking about several truly catastrophic decisions of the democratic regime and those before them that in the privatisation process destroyed the great giants, who were the backbone and development and survival of the state and whose workers were actually left behind. I'm particularly talking about the workers of several big gigans from the space I come from, among which there are a lot of those who have failed to make pension incomes because of such decisions. These are before the other employees of TK "Raška", PIK Pester, "Vesna", "First Petoletka" and many others who, due to these catastrophic privatisations from the time of DS and the decisions that followed, have been disabled from connecting the internships and have been prevented from making what they have set out for years by filling the PIO fund when the time came, i.e. when they came into that age period where they were realistically expecting it. I know that this is the legacy of the previous regime, and I know that it is not easy to correct it today, but I would draw the attention and presence of the minister, as well as here, to appeal once again that those few hundred workers who are still at large, especially PIK Pešter, “Vesna”, TK “Raška” in any way helped to reach their pensions, because they are the biggest victims of what the thief regime, the criminal regime of DS and all those who participated with them at that time, and at the Sandzak place has contributed a great deal to the Party of Democratic action and Sulejman Ugljanin himself, who has done these privatisations with them and thus brought them all the workers and brought them to maltene, in the position of social endangerment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62751	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62752	Your Honor, perhaps you haven't heard, listened to the opening part that I was saying and I was just talking about connecting there and implementing the government's conclusion, and that even now, this year, even more funds amounting to 3.96 billion. A total of 9.96 billion just to connect. So, with this rebalancing, we're even increasing. It is an idea wherever privatisation is made, where there is the possibility that the PIO fund will enter the equity stake, to do an internship connection, and to allow these workers to do so. So, anything that's possible in accordance with the law, we'll do it. I call on you, I do not know specifically about your companies that you have listed, but if they have conditions for such a thing, they should, if they are not so far, launch an initiative towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order for the Ministry of Business to put them as well. We don't have any problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62753	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Fehratovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62754	I thank the ministers. Indeed, this is a very important and courageous and particularly positive decision that will be enjoyed by hundreds of workers. Some of them have made demands, but probably not all of them, so this call will certainly be echoed, and that way we will help hundreds of families get some basic existence. On behalf of all of them, I really thank you both personally for this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62755	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62756	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished Mrs Tanaskovic, dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located in front of the town of Nisa, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Assembly I was elected from the SNS list - Aleksandar Vucic, and I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. Otherwise, at the Socialist Movement Parliament Club - People's Peasant Party - The United Peasant Party has always supported all these bill proposals that have been in the interest of all of us living in the territory of all Serbia. Today we are talking about a proposal, a decision, specifically related to the RFO, to increase resources, to provide these funds with a certain aid to our pensioners of 5,000 dinars. We all know, those who create, how resources are provided, because only by work, savings can be provided. Which means that the current government and the previous government, headed by our President Vukic, and now Serbian President, worked really hard, saved everything they could and provided the conditions for us to now vote to secure more funds for our pensioners. When we talk about the amount of that fee, and help from 5,000 dinars, for someone, I can say for sure, it's a little small for someone, but when we see what areas and how people live, specifically, my colleague Rističević spoke about our agricultural pensioners, about people living from agriculture, about all those who have small pensions, those 5,000 dinars will mean a lot to them. I can remind you that certain taxes paid by these agricultural pensioners living in a village, whether in Srlig, White Palanca, Knjižvac, Soko Banja, anywhere, he pays a certain tax. These 5,000 dinars will surely provide these people with the opportunity to pay that tax. On the other hand, our agricultural producers in our villages do not have a large consumption of electricity. With those 5,000 dinars, they'll have the opportunity to pay for electricity, as we say, in a year or so. It's these 5,000 dinars, because we all know, the average land in my village where I come from, the village of Pluzina, and the surrounding villages, and in other municipalities, people who deal in agriculture, they don't have a big energy consumption. They spend 600, 700 dinars per month on average. Of that, one part of it stands out for the public service RTS, which I used to say is that we're looking at ways to get rid of those people who have two houses, one house that has a special number, he's also paying that subscription for RTS, so I once asked, I asked a parliamentary question to lift it for people, to just pay for one count. We also know the situation in our villages, there are many examples, that the price of electricity paid in a year is no more than 5,000 dinars. Once again, thank the government and the president of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, who has indicated that it is helping the poor, that it is given to small communities, that it is given to small municipalities in mountain-mounted areas. I say that on behalf of all those who will receive these 5,000 dinars and who will be grateful for it. So, once again, it's going to be to pay for electricity for a whole year, if he spends 500 dinars, and maybe some dinar more. It's a really big help for all our people. On the other hand, whoever has the need to provide in our villages some supplies, salt, sugar and other such things, will certainly have the opportunity to live for himself and his grandmother, if he lives with his grandmother or someone else, I am witnessing that our villages are old, that by waving a small number of people live in these households, so these are supplies that they can take for 5,000 dinars, these are supplies for them maybe half a year. So when something is saved and it's given to the poorest, it's a big deal for everyone. So I think this is a positive and all those who say that this isn't good, that it should have been different, I think this is right. We have to help the poorest. On the other hand, I have also said as an MP and at various conferences that it is necessary that during the period that comes to provide opportunities for the employment of people living in our team and such mountainous municipalities, in such environments, that those people, employers who want to open some legal entity there, to do something, to provide those people with the possibility, we must do so together, the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Finance, to ensure that such people who are employed there, that gross earnings given on behalf of mandatory taxes and contributions, for them are at least 50% free, that this difference that is released, that the employer gives more pay to our employees who are employed there. It's another way for these people who live there to be able to live there and have the opportunity to finance themselves and their family. As President of the USS, I have always stood for southeastern Serbia, most of all for mountainous and mountainous areas, normally, and for other parts of Serbia where people deal in agriculture, where people live in the country and in the village, because we are witnessing that the village has always been a pillar of our society. Without a strong peasant, there is no strong Serbia. That's why I'm always saying - someone else's arm's itch doesn't scratch. I speak here in the Assembly as an MP, as a man who deals with agriculture, that we must find the opportunity to more isolated for our agricultural producers not only living in southeastern Serbia, but also out of southeast Serbia, for all those people living in such mountainous and mountainous areas with difficult living conditions. We have to give them a better chance. And this aid of 5,000 dinars will mean a lot to them, and normally it will mean a lot to other people who have small pensions. Once again, I have always advocated finding an opportunity for individual agricultural producers who had some debts in the previous period, and we know, 2002, 2003 and 2009 to change the law that worked differently, to pay social pensions through agriculture, where one was the holder of the land, where all the members were members within that land, only one. After that, a new law was passed on January 1st, which allocates all these debts to all those agricultural producers in the land. So now it's real, it's a huge debt to our agricultural producers who have been paying PIO through agriculture. It's a catastrophic situation for them. According to Mr. Risticevic, my colleague, associate and friend, who we are working with together for the needs of our agricultural producers. I always advocate mountain-mounted areas and others, to find a chance. We had certain meetings with our resolution ministries, to find an opportunity for these people to get rid of these debts, to take off interest and that they could pay PIO through agriculture in the next period without problems, so that they could use subsidies that the state of Serbia gives to agriculture. Thanks again. I'll vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62757	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we're talking about pensions and if you're talking about what you're supposed to give to the pensioners now, first of all, you have to admit what you've taken from the pensioners. And that is another indication that Serbia, unfortunately, except on paper, has no Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court does not declare the Brussels agreements. He says it's political agreements. Neither is the requirement for an assessment of the constitutionality of your Law on the temporary reduction of pensions. You first have to answer the question – what are pensions? Are these rights acquired or is retirement a social category, not to say some social giving? Pensioners in Serbia have worked fairly, in accordance with the law, gained their pensions and the right acquired no one can take away, at least not in states that are regulated and in which there is a rule of law. However, it is obvious that Serbia, unfortunately, is not one of those countries. If you said that the state is in crisis, that it is in front of bankruptcy, thanks to the coalition partners who are sitting with you today in the government, then first you have to calculate everything that you gave to the pensioners, first you have to return it in the way you count and when the pensioners owe for the tax, then you have to return the interest, first you return the interest, then only then the foundation, and when you pay the pensioners back everything you owe them, then, gentlemen, you can talk about some kind of pension increase. There was no increase in pensions. You have not yet made up for what you have taken. I repeat, you have taken away the law which you have brought. In 2014 in the campaign one of the basic promises of your pre-election was that you would not touch the acquired rights and that reforms, whatever they were, would not go to the expense of pensions. A few months later, you did exactly that, cheated on Serbian citizens and deceived pensioners you say voted for the SNS to the greatest extent possible. You're talking about 8.7 billion, how you're going to give the dinar now, and we can't hear how much your savings cost the pensioners in the previous period. According to official state data, look -- the Republic of Serbia, the Fiscal Council, since 6 February 2019, in search of an economically sustainable and socially acceptable formula for pension harmonisation. Official government document. The state institution's document, not to make up anything, that someone hates you, is just reading the data that you give, says – according to statistics from February 6, 2019, inflation in the period from 2012 to 2018 was 26.6% and GDP growth is 12.1%. The growth of GDP, which you're so boasting about. Is this the correct information, Mr. Minister? I believe it is. Here, I believe you. That means that the pension alignment in accordance with the law that you changed must have been at least 32%. In the past six years, you've increased your pension by 8.9%. That means you took the pensioners at least 23%. This means that in these six years you've kidnapped the pensioners, against the constitution, at least one year's pension. Instead of hearing even an apology, instead of saying -- here, dear pensioners, now what we have taken from you without your consent, what we have taken from you against the constitution, we will now begin to return it. You're convincing us that someone should be looking forward to 5,000 dinars to help the pensioners. Did pensioners work to live off charity and help? What kind of help in the golden age? They should live on their own pensions, live honestly, be proud, not be ashamed of each other or their grandchildren, not wait for charity and be satisfied about it. You've limited pensions, you've reduced pensions, and you represent it as your great success. Meanwhile, in those six years, the Republic of Serbia's budget increased by 4.5 billion euros, 72% and you talk about bankruptcy. The money's in the budget, but the money's going the other way. Pensioners aren't your priority. Farmers aren't your priority. That's a fact, and that's what they say, most importantly, your official state record. Data from state institutions. Let's not play any more games, you keep talking about some kind of Swiss formula, so it's mocking the pensioners. Why don't you say the Greek formula? Well, there's a pension increase in Greece, 50% VAT increase, 50% inflation. Because when you say - the Greek model, it sounds worse than the Swiss model. Serbia with Switzerland, unfortunately, has very, very few similarities in the lifespan of pensioners and pensions that receive both the quality of life. We absolutely by these standards cannot compare ourselves to them. Absolutely not. Mr. Minister, let's hear this statistics -- how many pensioners have passed over the last six years? How many people who won't wait for this help that you share and expect gratitude? Again, according to statistics, 450,000 new pensioners in these six years, pensioners whose pensions will be less permanent for the rest of their lives, because the point is lower because you did not comply with the Constitution to determine an increase in pensions. In 2002, the Constitutional Court, then, as we had it, decided that the reduction of pensions until 2000 was against the constitution. Now if we had a Constitutional Court, you'd make the same decision, so the state paid the pensioners back. Why can't you have the courage to give the pensioners an apology, to figure out how much you owe them, even if you make up for what you're about to say -- here, there's no state money to give you, but we'll cut you off from taxes, but you'll be able to pay for the electricity, you'll be able to pay for gas, communals, medicines, so that you can give those people a decent life before the end of their lives. Instead, you choose to make the whole of Serbia crazy and to convince that 8.9%, the increase in pensions, is more than 32%. You say – they've been higher pensions since 2014, so should they be smaller, is that why you're in power? It is not a question of whether they are greater today, but why they are not as large as they should be in accordance with the Constitution. That's the question. Why did you take the pensioner's money? You have no right to do that. You can cut salaries to employees, but pensions are acquired right and there is no kidnapping. Your happiness is that you hold in the hands of all the media and that Serbia has the Constitutional Court on paper, and there is no one to solve the most important issues, right, for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62759	Thank you. The word has a representative of promoter Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62760	We've been listening, MP, to your debate, however you wish, to comment on all this. First, the Swiss formula has nothing to do with today's debate, we're talking about rebalancing. There will also be discussions about the Swiss formula. The first thing you need to see is that the Swiss formula isn't called because it's Switzerland, it's given that name. We didn't make up that name, but when something is defined and what exists is called the Swiss formula, we just used it. It's not called Greek, it's not called Serbian, it's called Swiss. Secondly, when you talk about it, I've heard it, it's a series of cobwebs and I have to say, a simple demagogue that you're bringing out, which unfortunately yours, the pensioners know very well. Nemanja Sarovic: Remind him. ) Pensioners know very well what kind of situation they were in in 2014 and what kind of situation they had before. They know very well how much inflation was, how small was the price rise. They know very well who was in power before that, who brought this country to the point where we're thinking about whether we're going bankrupt or going to some extent. The fact that you're spinning some paper and writing on it is the Fiscal Council that you should know that it's the government's advisory body, that it can give advice and it has nothing to do with the government's policy at all. So some of the things you bring out here have absolutely no foothold, but that sounds nice to you. I know that you want and you know that there are millions and 700,000 pensioners and now your story needs to be liked, but unfortunately that's not the case. You said you were talking about some data here, so we suggest that the budget rebalance be one way or another, so we discuss it professionally, whether something should have been done in a different way. It's a real debate. If you want to talk about it, we should give the pensioners 10% more, we should give the pensioners 20 grand. I've already said that in some other discussions, being good on unrealistic grounds, without a standoff, is very easy. Here, if you want me to say it now, I was willing to give the pensioners 30,000 help. Now what? Now I'm much better than you are, than the government has decided, that I would have my general popularity. Well, of course no one when he's normally running politics and looking at his options on real grounds is going to say that kind of thing. So, you're talking like you're from another country, like you were somewhere else in 2014, like you were somewhere else in 2010 and 2011, when you were frozen pensions, like you were in 2008 when they were raising loans to give those pensions, so now we don't remember all that. We don't remember that the rate grew from 93 to 103 dinars over the year, that inflation was 11%, and that the increase in pensions was either zero or there were some cosmetics, at that point, a few percent that reduced pensions from inflation and growth. And now you're talking about something, like some pensions are taken. Who are they taken from? I guess we're here as a country one big family. We have one of our incomes that we need to distribute somehow to all citizens of Serbia. It's obviously funny to you when I say that Serbia should be one big family. Unfortunately, I believe that Serbia should be one big family when it comes to the personal interest of the Serbian state, and so should we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62761	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexander Markovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Just a moment, we have two registered in the electronic system. A colleague of Sarović, before you, reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So do you, of course, right. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62762	Mr. Milicevic, I really expected you to be the one to interrupt the minister. I assume that as chairman you listened carefully to my presentation and you saw that it was absolutely about the subject and that the minister didn't like the arguments that I made and these serious arguments, which apparently hurt him, that doesn't mean that he has the right to insult, that doesn't mean that he has the right to yell. Usually those who do not have the power of arguments try to make up for it with the power of their voice and insults. The minister can't teach, he can't be a minister to a national MP who's been transferred to the sovereignty of Serbian citizens to say his exposure is flat. It's not casual because I read specific data and it's not demagogy. Demagogy is what you're talking about. Dispute you, Mr. Minister, I won't insult you, I have enough arguments, I don't need to shout, I don't need to insult you, I won't insult you, I won't insult you, I won't insult you, I have enough arguments, I don't need to yell, I don't need to bring insults to your account, I'll report to the Fiscal Council, their analysis, and I want you to say that the data is specific about GDP growth and inflation is incorrect. Are you saying that, do you claim that from 2012 until the next six years end with 2018 GDP growth in Serbia was less than 12.1%? Are you saying Ministers? Is that what you're saying? Then you jump into your own mouth again. What you're saying is empty and it's a hollow story. Are you saying there was no inflation in those six years? Are you saying that he lies to the Republic Bureau of Statistics when he publishes what inflation is at the end of the year or you say – that's some paper that the MP spins? An MP doesn't spin, Mr. Minister, no papers. The MP reads official reports from state authorities and advisory institutions -- the Republic of Serbia Fiscal Council. It's not an NGO. That's fiscal advice. You're saying it's a non-serious body, that these people don't know what they're saying, that they're reading false data? Do not refer to the opposition MPs because you do not like the information of the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You discuss it with them. This is their publication, their publication. Therefore, refrain in the future, Mr. Minister, from insulting the MPs of the people and from the flatulence. Your assessment was colliding, because it wasn't based on arguments. Everything I said, every data is based on arguments, and you go ahead and say it -- it wasn't an increase in GDP in Serbia by six years or 12%. So you're saying it was less than 2% on average. Is that what you're saying, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62763	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. As you have noticed, I have no intention of interrupting MPs or proposing representatives. Nemanja Sarovic: You are in debt. I'm obliged to listen to them. Each of the participants in the debate shall have the legitimate right to state their position or the position of the parliamentary group. Now, it is subjective whether they are taken away or cheated just as they are casually. We can talk about it already, but not at the session. I thank my colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62764	Yes, I want him to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62765	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62766	I thank the chairman. A bunch of members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated. I don't know where to start. We had the first article of 107. The SRS are getting it. Please calm them down.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62767	A little quieter. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62768	Article 107. - dignity. Valuation was injured by a previous speaker as Minister Djordjevic spoke, screaming from his place, waving his hands and feet and the papers he was spinning, as the minister observed nicely. It's the first breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second breach of the Rules of Procedure is seen in what you let him talk as long as he wanted to talk. I know the Rules of Procedure detail how much time a MP can spend in advertising the Rules of Procedure. That's up to two minutes. Not even two minutes, but up to two minutes, and he talked for four minutes. He was talking about everything, just not what it was based on, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I really think you should have warned him. What's the problem here, Mr. Chairman? The problem is that the minister in his reply told one truth, which is that the previous speaker in his address was demagogy and it was demagogy and it can't be an insult if it's true. This demagogy is reflected in what he at all costs and in every way... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. )......................................................................................................... . I explained what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, he wants to show that something that is good for the citizens of Serbia, which is good for a million and 700 thousand pensioners for him is not good for him. It's not good when we're doing an increase in pensions based on a real basis, we're not in debt. It's not good for you when we raise pensions and when we're able to help pensioners with a one-time payment of 5,000 dinars. He still dares to say that 5,000 dinars are nothing, as it is without significant sum. So how come he's not embarrassed? So I'd like to ask these millions and seven hundred thousand pensioners, ask them if they have a little 5,000 dinars, and is that without a significant amount for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62769	I spoke to my colleague Markovic for a moment, explaining the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was pointed out by my colleague Sarovic, among other things, and what you pointed to. I know it's up to two minutes' worth of damage to the Rules of Procedure, but even during yesterday, if you remember, we had injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we had replicas and you know very well that I never sought to end the democratic debate and the democratic confrontation of the opinion and to reduce the rights of the opposition to positions or positions against the opposition. I'm simply trying to find some balance, and that's the essence of the presidency. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62770	Mr. Markovic has injured Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62771	My colleague Sarovic, Mr Markovic can't. I can't. I just need you to talk to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62772	Look at him better, and I'll explain it now. So, Mr. Chairman, I love it when you allow the discussion, but the discussion should be based on arguments. I didn't insult anyone here, nor did I insult the truth for saying that 5,000 dinars is a meaningless sum. Unfortunately, we live in such a time and it is such a difficult economic situation in Serbia, that pensioners are full of 500 dinars, not 5,000 dinars, and it is a matter of responsibility who brought pensioners into such a state. Mr. Minister's story is that they brought in those who were in power until 2012, here's another one I have to ask you - why are you talking so ugly about your coalition partners? Your coalition partners were in power until 2012, all of the ranks that are with you today in power and PUPS, and SPS and JS and many others and SDPS, and many others who today shed crocodile tears over pension pains. So, those who ate the money, those locusts who destroyed the pension fund are your coalition partners and being with them in power is talking about you. I call upon all of you and those who appear from the ruling coalition to replicate to me. Please state one piece of information that I have stated is not correct. The data is correct. You're talking about what you're giving the pensioners, supposedly giving, and you're not talking about what you took away. The fact is, you've taken away more incomparably than you've given. It would be much better for the pensioners to be accounted for in accordance with the Constitution, to make up for everything you took, kidnapped, to repeat that term, because it was not given voluntarily. Which you can't volunteer, it's been kidnapped. Give them back what they earned. You talk about what you give the pensioners, you give nothing. It's earned, it's theirs. Just don't kidnap them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62773	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister. Nemanja Sarovic: On what basis did he answer? ) The promoter may report during the debate whenever he does not replicate. Nemanja Sarovic: She cannot replicate herself. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) The proposing representative may always report during the debate of his colleagues, Sarovic. (Nemnja Sarovic: How does he report to his exhibition? ) Colileg Sarovic, slowly, does not replicate You can, after the presentation of the proposal's representative. [[I Nemanja Sarovic: Then I will ask for a replica on his exposure.]] Yes, you've been contacted before by a representative of the motion. Here, you see, you got it. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62774	Here, I'm talking about how loud, well, it's not right, and I'm insulting, which wasn't my intention at all, and it doesn't hurt. I am in pain with another fact that today we have a situation where we have a stable economic situation, stable sources of income when it comes to the PIO Fund, when we are discussing that our pensioners need first news in November to be beautiful and that they get an additional 5,000 thousand dinars. What I could logically conclude, because I see that you are referring to the Fiscal Council and I see that you are reading carefully everything they say, which means I read the same thing, and I would not comment on what the Fiscal Council says, but I understand logically that you would be into it when the Fiscal Council said that you should not increase the wages to our employees. You're up for it when he said he was explicitly against the pensioners' allowance. You're saying we need to take fiscal advice and we don't need to give them $5,000. I understand you're showing me the fiscal council documents that he says for 2016, when we gave them 5,000 dinars that we shouldn't have given them. In 2017 they also said in their report that we should not give them in 2018, when we gave them 3,000 explicitly you were against it. When we said last year that we should increase 5% they said no 5%. It's okay, it's your position, but I think our citizens deserve to be given 5,000 and their salaries and pensions increased, regardless, because we, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are leading this country and is responsible for making decisions, not some Fiscal Council. Thank you to the Fiscal Council for all their advice, but I think they should have been more explicit in their work in 2010 and 2011 and to say then how much those who were then in power, who, as we heard in yesterday's and yesterday's debate, took 620m euros for themselves, and then allowed pensioners to freeze their pensions and to reduce their pensions. We can talk about it, and today when we talk about giving 5,000 dinars, I don't think that makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62775	Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62776	I, Mr. Milicevic, will now have the right to two replicas, because there has been an unusual situation. (President: Always at one.) You allow the minister to replicate himself. He was the last speaker, and what we were talking about was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it had nothing to do with his. Then he's replicating himself once more. Here, Mr. Minister, I will continue to address you with Mr. Minister and Mr. Djordjevic, there is no need for you to make any logical conclusions regarding my discussion. Try to understand exactly what I said. I've been very specific. I ask you once again, since you haven't realized - what was GDP growth in Serbia from 2012 to 2018? The second thing - was it less than 12.1%? The fiscal council's data is 12.1%. What are their analysis and advice I'm not interested in, do you claim that this information is incorrect? Maybe it was a bigger GDP, maybe it was 20%. The second question -- how much was inflation for those six years? Is it true she was over 26%? Inflation from 2012 to 2018 The second question -- how much would it be to increase pensions if you hadn't reduced pensions under number one and number two by a constitutional change in the law? That's the point. Pensions increased by 8.9% from 2012 to 2018. They had to be up 32%, if you hadn't passed an anti-constitutional law that took the pensioners out of their pensions. That way, in six fiscal years, you took a one-year pension against the constitution. So don't talk about you giving pensioners, you didn't take anything out of your pocket, the pensioners earned it, they got rights. Answer - how much you owe the pensioners for those six years, give an apology and see how much you can make up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62777	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here's a colleague of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62778	Article 7 Mr. Milicevic. Since we are in the building of the National Assembly, which is the only one empowered to pass laws in the Republic of Serbia, I think that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated when any MP says that the National Assembly has passed a law that is contrary to the Constitution, and there is no decision of the Constitutional Court which explicitly states that any law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is the same situation with the Brussels Agreement of 2013, when one part of the opposition claims that the agreement is anti-constitutional, with the Constitutional Court taking the view that it could not have been measuredly engaged in a decision, i.e. in an assessment of the constitutionality of the Brussels Agreement, because it is not an international agreement. Therefore, it is not about the agreement of the Republic of Serbia with a foreign state and that the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had no obligation to carry out a ratification procedure that is otherwise applied when it comes to international agreements. Thus, the Constitutional Court confirmed that the Republic of Serbia has not concluded an international agreement with the so-called International Agreement. The republic of Kosovo, but that it is a political act that the Constitutional Court cannot even assess under the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is one of the arguments that those who claim to be with the Brussels Agreement, reportedly the Republic of Serbia gave up KIM, so now they have a legal argument that it is absolutely not true. We are now facing a similar situation that the Law on the Temporary Regulation of Pensions is declared anti-constitutional without the Constitutional Court's decision, which says the law is anti-constitutional. On the other hand, some MPs who are lawyers mix two categories, pension and the amount of pension. When a pensioner is a pensioner, it's a social status, it's a social category, and the amount of pension is a variable category that can't be acquired by law. Retirement, as social status is acquired right. So, you can't have someone who's finished their working life, who retired to be conditionally reactivated and returned to a working relationship, except in legally prescribed cases. When it comes to the amount of pensions, therefore, it is a variable category that can be changed according to economic and financial opportunities in the country. I just want to say one more sentence, the Republic of Serbia has been in a situation for many years, if we had formally had pensions which, therefore, are cash compensation, which bears the name "retirement", but realistically it was budget expenditure, because if there were no payments from the Republic of Serbia's budget, pensioners would not actually be able to receive pensions at all. But it is not the government's fault or Alexander Vukic's fault, nor is it the government of Ana Brnabic, some predecessors who emptied all the funds from which pensions were to be paid to pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62779	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. You've ordered a violation of article 107. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Comrade Sarovic, you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62780	Mr. Milicevic, I really welcome that you are taking this democratic session, because it is more than valuable to hear from the most clever and most beautiful SNS representative, there is time, Article 27, to hear how they view pensions. So, they say pensioner status, and that's the right to be called a pensioner, and how much retirement is going to be, so it doesn't matter anymore. Today 30,000, tomorrow 5,000, could be a dinar, because it says it's variable. Well, is the next thing we're going to say for savings, or to hear from you that the name savings is something that's acquired, that someone calls you savings, and that's how much you've had, so that's variable, today 30,000, tomorrow, if the state needs it, the state takes what it takes, anyway, is what the minister says, one big family. But you're a little closer to that bag where it's taken, so there's no way it's going to cross over for the citizens of Serbia. You know, they all take the same ones from that family. Those who have worked, earned, filled the bag, are now saying variable, and you who are unable to earn nothing, but for you it must be because it is democracy, that is what you are propagating. At the beginning of my discussion I asked the question, are pensions acquired right? Pensions are made, not every pension is not the same, but pensions are determined on the basis of the level of separation. So you can't say it doesn't matter how much pension you put in that bag you're taking from right now, that's the point. People have earned, you give them nothing, you give them nothing, and you don't talk about giving. Just give them what they've earned, if you can do something great. But here's to remind ourselves, in early 2014, at a pre-election event in the country's Pinky Hall, SNS leader said he guaranteed that acquired pensioners' rights would not be reduced regardless of what reforms the Serbian government would take. This is ahead of the elections, I quote: "No matter what reforms we take, whatever is gathered, dear friends, bear in mind one thing I guarantee you, pensioners will be the last to have anyone's rights to touch in the country. It's better to take everything off our backs, and there's nothing to take from the pensioners. “ Do you want me to read this one more time? [[humble applause]] Pensioners have nothing to take, they're rights acquired. It's your policy and your pre-election promises, and after the election, you say -- that's variable, we're all one big family, let's take whoever it takes, only those who are closer to the fire will get a little more warm. That's unfair, that's dishonest, that's incorrect. I call on any of you to disprove the data I specified, whether GDP was less than six years from 12.1% and whether inflation was less than 26%? That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62781	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, not this time. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62782	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I don't know why a colleague's so nervous, I don't know if he got that new damage or not, maybe he didn't get it, so he's angry about it. But he obviously doesn't know two categories. Alexander Seselj: What? I'm saying, maybe he didn't get the new damage, so he's angry about it. So, I want to say once again, retirement is a social status that is acquired when a man completes his working life and is no longer a working member of the law. As for the amount, or pension height, it's a variable category, same as the variable category and salary, because if we accept the principle of which the opposition colleagues speak, then it means my salary that is now, so it has to be that much for life. Is it that big? Of course not. The salary is changed according to economic and financial opportunities in the country. It would be good if the budget, i.e. the pension, disability and health insurance funds were not emptied, so that most of the pensions did not have to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, it happened to us. For almost 30 years, Serbia has been in a situation where most of the pensions, as cash compensation, are actually paid and secured from the Republic of Serbia's budget, not from pension funds, because pension funds have been robbed or emptied. I just said, and I'm behind it, and the SNS parliamentary group is behind it, is Alexander Vukic responsible, did he empty the pension fund? Did she empty Anna Brnabic's pension fund? It's not. Pension funds were emptied long before coming to the SNS authorities. We were in a situation in 2012, that practically, in the Republic of Serbia's budget, there was money to pay another, possibly, salary to people who work in the public sector and another or maybe not even one, but half of the pension and then the state would go bankrupt. And now there's some colleagues out there making out like they don't know it. Unfortunately, the situation in the country was such that the government of the Republic of Serbia had to reach for an unpopular measure, which is to temporarily reduce the amount of pension, but temporarily to reduce the amount of pension, with pensioners, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia as voters, understanding that the measure was necessary and that the measure was necessary, because they supported the SNS and 2014, in the elections, but also in 2016 and 2017, when they voted for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Not to mention all the local elections that took place in the meantime, which the SNS had won convincingly and where pensioners also showed that they understood that the decision, or ultimately the law adopted by the National Assembly, which concerns the temporary payment of pensions was a necessary measure to save the state from bankruptcy and we saved the state from bankruptcy. If these measures were not taken, neither would there be wages today, nor would there be pensions, and the big question is whether Serbia could survive economically at all, that is. The people understand that well. I really don't understand the efforts of some colleagues to explain to the people after a few years that something has been taken from them, and the people themselves say, "Nothing has been taken from me." The state was in need, it had to take certain measures, not only for me to have a pension, but for my grandson to live tomorrow, both my son and my daughter, etc. So it was a necessary measure that the state had to take in order to survive economically at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62783	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: No. I thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure,
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62784	Mr Milicevic, you have injured Article 107 as well as Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure. You were under the obligation that when a colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, spoke, since he was obviously not referred to in the Pensions Law and how solutions were issued by the fund, as well as by the minister, but I cannot point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure that was done by the minister, and here, the minister can hold a lecture after my presentation. So, you were obliged to explain to Mr. Martinovic that the retirement pensioner, as he says, achieved as a acquired category, social status, does not mean that someone should have zero dinars. On the contrary, by retireing each pensioner, who has met the conditions on any basis, gets from the PIO Fund a solution that says the exact amount of his pension. If that were what Mr. Martinovic said, then the PIO Fund would have given that someone who got that social status, whether or not Mr. Colakovic got just some plaque, so we thank you, now you have social status. Secondly, he has led into the delusion of pensioners watching this session broadcast. He said, "They can't work except under certain conditions, it's not true at all. All pensioners in Serbia can work, except in certain cases, which I will explain to you, Mr. Milicevic, and when you have time, tell Mr. Martinovic, because I cannot address him directly. So, all the pensioners who went into retirement, met the conditions for retirement at this point can get a job. Their employer doesn't need the state and the fund to pay taxes and contributions to pension and disability insurance, because they already have it as a acquired right, but they have to pay the state budget for their income, right, Mr. Djordjevic? They can't just under certain conditions, so they can start a contract on work, a contract on temporary and trusted jobs and a special type of contract, so there are only restrictions, and there are fewer pensioners who are disabled, they can't work as pensioners who went into retirement, and there are restrictions on professional security forces, they think of military and police members, they're allowed even when they've gone into disability pension on the basis of total professional damage to establish a working relationship or to carry out independent work. So it's not any honor, it's not just a certain social status, it's something someone did to earn, because someone started to single out the fund at the beginning of their work based on their earnings so that in a solution issued by the PIO fund, the exact amount of pension cost. There, so much so that we wouldn't lead the pensioners astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62785	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. You know very well that I, as chairman, am not able to lead this kind of debate with the MPs from this position, but from the parliamentary benches, yes, my obligation is from the position of chairperson to hold a session and to give my word when there is a basis for it. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I do not ask the National Assembly to declare itself. ) I thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62786	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Milicevic National Assembly. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. So it's clear to me that in a political debate, colleagues can bring up what's called and what the president said a few weeks ago, just nice music for someone's ears. But the job of the MP aside from the fact that he may have the right to say whatever he wants here in the esteemed House, means to be responsible for his people first and for his country. I will present yesterday's data from the World Bank and prove, of course, that everything that was said a little earlier at a pay phone by some of my colleagues is absolutely not true and I urge them to be much more responsible to their people. Serbia has been ranked ninth since yesterday in number and at the level of building permits issued worldwide. That's right. I expect support, of course, from a fellow SRS. Serbia is about protecting minority shareholders in the 37th world. The number of building permits issued from 2007 to 2016 was 75,000 in nine years. From 2016 to 2019, it is 78,000. What does that mean? It means that Serbia is the leader in business, investment leader, leader in economic growth. As for pensions, January 1st of this year, pensioners with 30,000 pensions go to 31,260. Here, pensioners from 35,000 to 36,890, my mother has so much pension. It's big money for pensioners, it's big money for our older citizens and it's the result and the policy of the president and the government of the Republic of Serbia who put first the focus of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and especially those who are the most vulnerable and, of course, the oldest, our pensioners. So we can have a debate here, we're ready for it, but in the 21st century, in 2019, you can check everything in a few minutes, everything is verifiable. So, I think that the debate needs to get more serious, but also that people who are against the current government should admit and say, that people, you work with Chinese six billion euros in investments. You have economic growth of 4.1%), so others in Europe. You're building a 100km highway a year and that's what separates us from you. These are concrete results, it's a concrete struggle for our national and national interests, and that's what we can get out of this building and show our citizens, and not to play, you know, the music that we would like, we'd start something, maybe we'd just do something if we came to power. Gentlemen, that requires knowledge, it takes work 24 hours a day, so, please, you can do what is bad to criticize, and we will continue with this work of preglading and consecrated.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62787	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. You referred to me as pointing to the violation of Rule 107, and I realized that, through the explanation of this violation of the Rules of Procedure that you pointed to, you actually want to make a contribution to the debate, but I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Marinkovic: No. I thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62788	Article 108. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, you claim to be different from us and that's true. What makes you different, I think it is best said by Mr. Djordjevic, the minister of the current government. You are the ones who led Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, you were the ones who were in power from 2000 to 2012. You're the one why they didn't have to pay any full salary and no whole pension. You're the one who did the robbery privatisation. That's what your coalition partners say. Here's what Mr. Risticevic says, Martinovic says, that's what Minister Djordjevic says, but leave it for some meetings within your coalition. So you're the ones who robbed Serbia. The second thing is a very interesting contribution to parliamentary democracy when representatives of the ruling majority jump to the opposition, but no one to disprove concrete data, and concrete data are what hurt you. I repeat, Serbia's inflation from 2012 to 2018 is over 26%, GDP growth is 12.1%. If you hadn't passed the anti-constitutional law, the pensions would have been 32% in accordance with the law that you've derrogated. Instead, it's consistent with 8.9% and so, gentlemen, you took your pensioners in six years' time for one year's pension. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You've paid so much less, and now you say, we're giving 5,000 dinars. The argument that the official figures of the Fiscal Council that I have cited are not true, according to Aleksandar Martinovic, that the SNS won the local elections in Medvedja and said - that it hurt pensioners that they were not kidnapped, and then Mr Marinkovic answered, and said – evidence that we did not steal the pensioners, although no one asked them, is that the World Bank says we are seventh in the number of building permits issued. It's, you know, an old economic law -- which the World Bank says is in seventh place to issue building permits, in no case has he stolen pensioners in the last six years. Whoever studied the economy knows that. You guys seem to be finishing some weird colleges, but the truth is different. Come on, if you want to go anywhere, anywhere, to face attitudes, concrete arguments. Why are we talking about pensions, the rights guaranteed by the leader of your coalition, why are you running off to other topics? What are you running to building permits for? What are you running off to those who robbed the country by 2012? Why are you talking about the local elections in Medvedja? Was there a question about whether the pensioners were robbed? One more thing, you say – supported by pensioners in the elections. How do you know who he voted for? (President: I thank you. Here, I'm done. Allow me, as did my previous colleague. How do you know, gentlemen, who voted for whom? How can you say that? The vote is classified. Do you have maybe a million and seven hundred thousand pensioners, if you weren't watching them? Will this also be a topic next time they come from the EU to line you up in these two columns, those that were in power until 2012 and those who brought you in 2012, when you again have EU mediators? Call your senses and please talk about the subject, the law. Do you see how many arguments we have? Do not let the discussion spread to what is not the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62789	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, I disagree with what you last said, which is that I do not allow the discussion to spread. On the contrary, do you see how much discussion has spread? You ordered the violation of article 108. I don't think I've hurt Article 108, but I'm asking you in the future not to address the MPs directly, please contact me. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I didn't address them, I was just quoting them. You're right, of course. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62790	Article 106, Mr. Milicevic. It's very difficult to debate and discuss with people who are looking for a reasoned discussion, and everything they say is incorrect. Everything we've heard here is completely incorrect and everything is an absolute lie, and as far as GDP is concerned, and as far as inflation is concerned, and as far as the end goes, pension amounts as variable categories. I ask my dear colleagues to take a nice Law on PIO, a member of 63a, from which you can clearly see that the pension amount is not a pension as a social category, when someone ceases to be a working person and becomes a pensioner, but a pension amount, it is written to you in the Law on PIO, Article 63 paragraph 2 - The accounting amount of the average annual earnings referred to in Article 1 of this article is calculated by multiplying the average monthly earnings in the Republic for the period from the beginning of the calendar year, ending with the month two months preceding the month in which the insurance company achieves the right by multiplying by 12 months. Exceptionally from Article 2 of this Article, the accounting amount of the average annual earnings, that is the category that is changed not only in the Republic of Serbia, in every country in the world, is calculated by multiplying the average monthly earnings in the Republic for January and February of that year by 112 etc. Therefore, it is clear that the amount of pension, as well as the amount of salary, was a variable category. What opposition counterparts will not say, and what is true and what pensioners know, the majority of pensioners in the Republic of Serbia have actually not been affected, conditionally speaking, by the measures provided for by the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how to pay off pensions because the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the congregation majority in those pensions that were lowest did not touch. So over 60% of pensioners in the Republic of Serbia also received the exact same amount of pension during the validity of the law. That's what this is about. Practically, this Law on the temporary payment of pensions is, in fact, the most conditionally speaking, to say, hit pensioners who had the most pensions, and those who had a pension that was legally limited to a certain amount, in that pension did not even touch. These people continued to receive exactly the same amounts, which is the most important part of the pensioners in Serbia. Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic tried to deny me, but she failed because in fact she just repeated what I said. I said, therefore, a pensioner can when he retires to work. That's not at all controversial. But we're not talking about it. We're talking about the amount of retirement. You mentioned the solutions to the PIO fund. That solution is Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, an administrative act. The administrative act is an individual act, and the law is a general act. So the law has more legal power than any individual act. The law can change the content of individual acts. That's what this is about. That's one legal logic that might be a little strange to you right now, but that exists. I return you to what you know very well, pension funds in the Republic of Serbia have not emptied Alexander Vukic or Zoran Djordjevic. (Milorad Mircic: Toma Nikolic. ) Here's Milorad Mircic caught up with Tom Nikolic. Well, I don't even believe that Toma Nikolic emptied the funds, but he emptied someone who was in power before 2012. If we're going to narrow things down to simple factors, if pensions are paid out of funds, and the fund is empty, so what do we do with these people? What's the alternative? To pay out pensions from the Republic of Serbia's budget. But in this situation, the Republic of Serbia and pensioners in the Republic of Serbia did not come thanks to the politics of Alexander Vukic, but thanks to the policies of those who were in power until 2012. We were a specific state by that, which is someone formally retired, and his pension is paid out of the budget. Give me a serious state in a world where such a thing exists. Not part of the pension, but most of the pension is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. But what if he did with those people? Leave them unreceived? We weren't ready for that. So we accepted the burden that someone else left us for political heritage. But because of this, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not suffer, and they did not suffer more than 60% of the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62791	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic: I do not ask to be voted. ) You have indicated to Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I fully agree with you, and I ask my colleagues who have been registered in the electronic system, and they probably point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that, through the apparition of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, they make their contribution to returning to the order of MPs according to the application for the word. A colleague of Marinković, you first pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, then a colleague of Nemanja Sarović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62792	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm advertising Article 103. I was just talking about the World Bank and our position on the "Ding Business" World Bank list because Mr. Sarovic could understand the context economically, so he could understand what is needed and what process it is necessary to implement in order to make it happen, as Mr. Martinovic said, to fill the funds, to create opportunities for the implementation and realization of capital investments and infrastructure projects and to create a good business environment for investment. I'll just say, I'll try to put it in simple language to the MPs, so to my colleagues, President Vukic has opened 140 factories from 2016 to today and I'll explain it in a few words. Three days ago, two investments. One investment, which is "Bross" in Panchev, something that is essential, vital to residents and citizens, again I say, since our citizens are in focus and jobs, 1,100 employees with net salary, dear colleagues of 1,700 euros. This is gross 2,700, which means that the 1,000 euros goes to taxes and contributions. So the budget is being filled, creating opportunities for pensions to be bigger, to pay in the public sector, to have more money for roads, to have more money for those who are unable to secure their existence on the market and their families, to those who are socially at risk. This creates opportunities to invest in science, in new technologies, in capacities that involve tourism development. Just like that. Only through great work and attracting investment, tax cuts and animation of all those who are ready and recognise the Republic of Serbia as the economic leader in the region. Alexander Vukic has opened 140 factories in the past three years. It's a homework assignment. It's pensions tomorrow, it's public sector salaries and it's a 100km highway in 2019 and it's four billion euros in foreign direct investment. This is more than the total amount of foreign direct investment in all Western Balkan countries, plus Croatia, which is an EU member. So much for what the Serbian government is doing in parliament for Serbian citizens and they recognize it. So in all studies, choose, you want "Facor Plus", you want "Stratejik", you want "Mediam Gallup". That same Wolf 55%. For these others you know for yourself, I won't bid, the numbers are low, thank you. I'm not gonna ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62793	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. From what I understand, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62794	Article 107. You know, Mr. Milicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62795	He was already a member of 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62796	I think today is really a contribution to such a parliamentary democracy, but I have to admit that this looks like some kind of political time machine. When we listen to these praises, you know, it needs to be changed, it's not enough to change who you're talking to. You need to change the text as well. With the same ferocity, these same people praised both Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic and Mirko Cvetkovic and Ivica Dacic and all those, and Boris Tadic, so that we do not forget him and all those who by 2012, as Minister Djordjevic now says, brought the country into a state that there is no pay, that there is no pension, brought to the brink of destruction, closed down the factories that you are now talking about, drove people out of the country, destroyed the perspective and everything else. So, let's take a look in the eye once, let's see, come on, by the name of who are you? Same people, same stories. Mr. Marinkovic, who was it that ruined the country from 2000 to 2012? You have been in every government, your political party and your political leader Rasim Ljajic. Was he in every government? Yes, it is. Continuity for 20 years, and you've been gliding, so be angry with some of you before you villains, who robbed citizens of Serbia, and now you've got to earn money from your pre-governing work for empty pension funds. It's absurd. It is absurd that there is no political responsibility in this country. As for Mr Martinovic, let him write a scientific paper called, as he said earlier, "retirement as a variable category". That would be valuable in both legal science and economic science. You know, your thesis that "retired" knowledge is acquired right, and how retired it will be, it has nothing to do with it. You take off 10%, pension is retirement. If you can reduce by 10%, you can reduce by 90. Reduce the fine base by 90% and then announce the next day victoriously – we will increase pensioners by 50%. Then you're mad at us for, as you say, ruining the good news. Instead of looking forward to the pensioners giving them 5,000 dinars, now we're ruining the news and reminding the pensioners that you took their entire annual pension. You've taken an annual pension in the last six years for all pensioners. Secondly, lying is something else. It's a lie that the pensioners with the smallest pensions didn't suffer. They've suffered quite well. They suffered because they did not comply with the law, which was in force until you brought in the anti-constitutional and punitive pensions, which did not comply with their rising prices, in line with GDP growth. They've suffered so much. Six years from now, the Fiscal Council says-- an increase in pensions of only 8.9%. They had to be up 32%. Now, that difference, well, that's what you took, at least 23.1%. That's what you took. What don't you get? He is angry with Martinovic, he says – we are misrepresenting data from GDP. You don't know what you want. If the GDP was greater than 12%, then you kidnapped even more citizens of Serbia and pensioners than the Fiscal Council said. Because the bigger GDP growth, the bigger pensions they had to be. So you don't know what you're talking about. If it's GDP...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62797	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62798	Here, slowly, you let Martinovic go until the seventh minute, I only spoke four. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62799	It wasn't until the seventh, it was until the fifth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62800	The second thing, if GDP was less than 12.1% in six years, it's only about 2% a year. You're boasting it's 3.5%, 4%. Then you lied to the citizens when you said we have high GDP growth, that the economic upturn of Serbia, that we have billions of euros in investment. You have to decide when you lied, and if you lied and deceived the citizens, it's obvious that you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62801	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Very selective approach. Thank you. He'll come out. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62802	Article 107, Mr. Milicevic. I'm not angry at all. I am always pleased and smiled at the discussion of Mr. Nemanje Sarovic, because he forgot in that political heat that the Republic of Serbia is a legal state in which there are laws. If he had read the laws a little bit, and he didn't need any scientific papers, he could read in the law that pensions are not in line with GDP, but with average monthly earnings. That's what the law says, and the average monthly income in the Republic of Serbia, here, I am now quoting the law -- "For the period from the beginning of the calendar year to the end of each month, in the calendar year, the authority responsible for statistics issues is publishing." Therefore, pensions are not in line with GDP, with, of course, incorrect GDP data, but are consistent with average annual earnings, and data on this are provided by the Republic Statistical Institute. As for what Mr Marinkovic said, first of all, Mr Marinkovic, let me thank you for these data that you have provided, it is not about any praises, it is fully true about what Aleksandar Vukic, as Prime Minister and as President of the Republic, did to increase and strengthen the Serbian economy. So, it would be good if those who mock Mr Marinkovic say which of these data is not true. Aren't the exact data on the number of open factories? Could not be accurate data on the number of new jobs? Is it not true that Serbia is a leader in the Western Balkans region, plus Croatia, you said well, Mr Marinkovic, who is an EU member, when it comes to foreign direct investment? So, what of this data that Mr Marinkovic presented, which is no praise, is simply statistics that some may like and some may not, but are true, therefore, which of what Mr Marinkovic said is not true? It's absolutely true. The data suggests that Serbia is starting to come back to life as a state, especially as a country in the economics field. We were half-dead. We were state-of-the-art breathing in 2012. We are today a country where, objectively, whoever wants to work, can find a job and not just find any job, but find a job that can make a decent living and support family members. But it wasn't all about the heavy measures we had to take. That's what I'd like to remind my fellow opposition colleagues. So, we've come out of these difficult measures. We have now stabilised the Serbian economy, we are now working on strengthening it, we are dealing with countries that are objectively in a better situation than we are, having a better starting position. We deal with countries that are in the EU, which have far more opportunities than us to withdraw funds from European funds, which have far more opportunities to attract foreign investments, so we deal with them and show that we can be better than them. We're competing in the number of new jobs. We're competing in the number of new factories. We compete to increase the standard of living of citizens year by year. Is the situation ideal? It wasn't, and none of us even claimed it. That's what opposition individuals claim. And those who laugh, great, it's easy to laugh. You're laughing at Vladimir Marinkovic. Here, I'm asking you now - did you bring any investors? Did you bring anyone to Serbia who opened at least one job? No, I don't. You didn't open any new jobs, you didn't bring in any investors. Who did you bring? Who did you bring? You didn't bring anyone, but you laugh at those who brought hundreds of investors and opened tens of thousands of jobs. As far as I'm concerned, you just keep going like that, but Serbian citizens understand very well the difference between who works and who laughs at who works.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62803	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Comrade Sarovic, I'll let you know, you've pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we've already been in the middle of about 45 minutes. I have nothing against dialogue, but we could do all this through the order of MPs, because there are still a lot of MPs who want to talk about this topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62804	Thank you, colleague Milicevic, but this is what you warn those from the ruling coalition who speak seven minutes each, do not warn us from the opposition. So here's another question. You obviously either don't understand or you're not able to understand and then you're saying things that have absolutely nothing to do with a relationship. Let's start with what you're saying once. You're talking about the law, Mr. Martinovic. Show me where the law says you can lower your pension base? Where? So it's acquired right. When it's said that pension rights have been acquired, it's acquired at a certain height, depending on how much you've been paying during your working life. So you're undoing it. Why would anyone be paying into a pension fund if an expert on economics Martinović could show up and say, "Oh, that's a variable category"? You're just calling pensioners something that's acquired, and the pension is variable, so whether it's this much or so. Now, that can't be. You can't say we're taking 10% off today, and tomorrow we can take 50% off with the same ease. The other thing is, you don't have a problem with me, Mr. Martinovic. You have a problem with your new party president, Alexander Vukic. It was he who guaranteed Serbian citizens to read again. It says -- it guarantees that acquired pensioners' rights will not be reduced, regardless of what reforms the new Serbian government will take. I quote Alexander Vukic, whom you call upon so often. "No matter what reforms we take, whatever happens, dear friends, bear in mind one thing I guarantee you, pensioners will be the last in whose rights anyone can touch in the state. It's better to take everything off our backs, and there's nothing to take from the pensioners. “ You have broken this promise and taken and taken from the pensioners. Second thing, you keep talking about 140 new factories. Well done, I wish it was 1,400. You're talking about hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Well done, I wish you even more success in that. The question is, if you have billions of investors, if you have hundreds of thousands of new jobs, if you have hundreds of new factories, if Serbia's budget is 72% higher, so where's the money? Then why don't you give the pensioners back, people, what you took? Is it the golden age we live in now? Have a little humanity, pensioners hard to live for. A hundred thousand pensioners receive pensions below 100 euros in Serbia. Give them back what was taken and you with the smallest pensions suffered. They suffered because the way their pensions would be increased was reduced. There was no increase that had to be, only 8.9% in six years. They're suffering, they're suffering today. In six fiscal years, you took one year's pension from them, you paid 12 months less. That's what the Fiscal Council says, and then you say it's no good fiscal advice. You have a problem with yourself. We call on the President of the Republic, you say it's not. Let's call the fiscal council, you say it's not like that. We call on Minister Djordjevic who says they robbed Serbia, your coalition partners, and half of those who sit with you in the benches, who flew over to SNS, you say no. Whatever you want, but finally get behind one attitude. Has Serbia been robbed by 2012 or not? If so, why did you keep the same coalition partners as yellow thieves? Is that a good question? If it is not, say it – it is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62805	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62806	Article 27, Mr. Milicevic. Let's start with these famous coalitions. You're still in the Old Town coalition with this, I don't know what the aggregate state of DS, Mark Bastac. As to whether or not I have a problem with something, I have no problem with anything. You have a problem with the law because you don't read it. In Article 63. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act writes well – the annual personal coefficient for the calendar year in which the right is realised is the ratio of total earnings, so you have to read the entire member of the law, not to take one piece and say – that's all it says in the law, therefore, the ratio of total earnings, the basics of insurance and the level of contracted insurance fees made for that calendar year and the calculated amount of the average annual earnings for the same calendar year. So you have to keep all of this in mind when you're talking about the amount of retirement. So all of these elements, which are listed in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, you have to keep in mind when you talk about the amount of pension. So, the law itself doesn't me, the law says that the amount of retirement is a variable category, and that, after all, is no big deal. What I cannot agree with, when the National Assembly with an absolute majority of votes adopts one law, I think that no MP, whether or not he voted for the law, has the right to say that it is a state or says you have kidnapped someone. When the National Assembly has regulated certain matter by law, then there is no kidnapping, then there is no robbery, then there is legal regulation of an area of social life. This area of social life, we're talking about pensions and pensioners, was regulated so, noteably, was regulated, since we came out of these difficult fiscal consolidation measures, that over 60% of pensioners were not under the legal regime of the Interim Retirement Act. This means that the state, not that it did not kidnap them, but that the state protected over 60% of pensioners in the Republic of Serbia. As for what you are laughing at, Serbian citizens are not laughing at it, Serbian citizens are looking forward to it. You say, "Where's the money?" You know, the one who doesn't want to see it, he doesn't see it. Serbian citizens see new roads, Serbian citizens see new schools, Serbian citizens see the army arming us, Serbian citizens see new planes, Serbian citizens see new tanks, Serbian citizens see that Serbia today is a respectable state when it comes to defending our country. All of this is seen by Serbian citizens and you are now asking as Nenad Canak – where is our money? In roads, in tanks, in new jobs, in factories, in schools, in new clinics. That's where the money is. Don't learn from these worst, from Nenad Chank. You caught the Mantra Nenada Chanka – where is our money? Mark Bastac, among other things, with whom you are still in the coalition. When it comes to SNS, no one put this money in their pocket. So we invested in infrastructure, we invested in defense, we invested in education, we invested in health care. Serbian citizens see it, and to see it, they showed it in the 2014 elections, so 2016, so in 2017 and in all local elections, not only in Medvedja. You caught up with the local elections in Medvedja, but in all the local elections that were since 2016. Let me remind you of the election results for the Belgrade City Assembly. It's not a Bear. So, we saw, the senseless campaign was, among other things, led against Alexander Vukic and SNS, but literally against every project that was implemented in the city of Belgrade and you are now doing the same thing that the yellow ones were doing, what these Tadics, Bosko Obradovic, etc. are doing. (President: I thank you. I'm done. They laughed at everything Alexander Vukic and his team worked for the city of Belgrade. They laughed at the façades, laughed at Belgrade on the water, laughed at every project, but the citizens of Belgrade didn't laugh and gave exactly as many votes as they deserved. So it's not a dispute, you can laugh, it's your right, you can laugh, you can mock whoever's trying to make Serbia a normal and decent state. Personally, I think you'd better help, but if you don't want to help, you have the right to laugh. You must also know that Serbian citizens understand very well that in a certain situation the state had to take action and that after these measures, the economic situation has become much better and thanks to this much better economic situation, we today can allocate a lot more money for both roads and schools, and for hospitals, and, ultimately, as this decision shows, for pensioners themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62807	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. I will allow you to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I ask that, like all other MPs, even after the violations of the Rules of Procedure have been announced, I have also asked my colleague Martinović and I have said – all MPs, return to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62808	Absolutely, Mr. Milicevic. I think these are important topics and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia, who are watching this session, are satisfied. If we talk about coalition partners, the coalition partner of Aleksandar Martinovic and his party is Nenad Canak. If you don't know who Nenad Canak is, that is, the person who said a few days ago that Kosovo and Metohija are as Serbia as much as Serbia and the Netherlands. If we're going to talk about who the coalition partner is going to be with, I think, Mr. Martinovic, if you have the nerve to be ashamed to be in a coalition with Nenad Canka. Is KIM as much Serbia for you as the Netherlands is for the Netherlands? That's your face, that's your coalition partner. We have nothing to do with him, nor will we. Secondly, you are in some other cities in Serbia in power with yellow thieves. At Petrovac at Mlava, for example today. The third question, how many municipalities, let's limit ourselves to Belgrade, was in 2012 in power with yellow thieves? With a lot of municipalities. Some of your colleagues come from these municipalities. Therefore, do not honor anyone in coalition relations, but rather consider yours. One more question. You say – Serbia is a respectable force in defence. I look forward to it. Every new tank, every new anti-aircraft system, every new helicopter, believe me, as a citizen of Serbia, I look forward and feel safer because Serbia is threatened by many neighbouring countries. But I ask you, Mr. Martinovic, shall we defend our country? Are we going to defend Kim with these tanks and helicopters? Is KIM for sale? Is it just a matter of price you have not reached or is it, as it is in accordance with the Constitution and the law and as Alexander Vukic swore on the Gospel – an integral part of the Republic of Serbia for which the preservation of territorial integrity and sovereignty will be fought by all its forces? Shall we fight? Let's first remove those who say KIM Serbia is as much as the Netherlands. Is there a worse scandal on the Serbian political scene? In Spain, they are in prison. When will those calling for Serbia's desecration finally end up in prisons? When will they arrive under the law? Let's hear your legal expertise. How many crimes are there that protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? When did someone answer who says KiM is not Serbia? Yes, it is. Those limits have been established. They were determined by the blood of our ancestors. They've been established by the Constitution. They were established by Resolution 1244. What do we have in Kosovo? Everything. Is it temporarily occupied? Yes, it is. Can the Force, Mr. Martinovic, Doctor of Law, create a right? What Belshazzar Bojisic said: "The time is not right for the coat of arms." Can the kidnapped become legal? Not unless we agree. Let it go - we have nothing, that we don't have anything more to ask of us. When you talk about Alexander Vukic, these imaginary attacks, Mr Martinovic, I read the statement of Alexander Vukic because I fully agree with him. I support it when it says – whatever reforms we take, whatever happens, dear friends, consider one thing I guarantee you, the pensioners will be the last in whose rights anyone can touch in the country. It's better to take everything off our backs, and there's nothing to take from the pensioners. Who wouldn't support this? I support this. You don't support this, you say – retirement is a variable category, so this is how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62809	Thank you. Comrade Sarovic, do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to declare the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62810	That's what happened, Mr. Sarovic. Article 107. Is there anything you need to warn me?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62811	No, I don't. Here you go. I asked all the MPs for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62812	It was just as the esteemed colleague Sarovic said, and related to the statement by Aleksandar Vukic. Alexander Vukic has indeed taken all possible measures, so as the last measure left for us as a state, it is to pass the Law on the temporary way of paying out pensions, on the temporary way of paying out pensions. We have come out of these difficult fiscal consolidation measures and are now in a situation where pensions can be increased, but not only to increase pensions, but to strengthen the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life. I also talked about this when it comes to education and when it comes to legislation and when it comes to health care and when all other topics are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as KIM is concerned, we've betrayed KIM a thousand times. Every day, the people of the opposition claim to us, and you have betrayed KIM, and you will betray it. Yesterday, Vuk Jeremic says and says – what Aleksandar Vukic is doing means that we are introducing Serbia into the NATO Pact. According to Mr. Sarovic, according to Bosko Obradovic, in the opinion of Mark Bastic, in the opinion of all of these, Gilas, Jeremic, etc. Alexander Vukic has already betrayed KIM, we are already in the NATO Pact, if you did not know, we are not holding military exercises with the Russians today, but together with the NATO Pact we are participating in some wars in the world. That is what it looks like from the optics of those who represent one part of the opposition in Serbia. The fact that reality is something else, they don't care. What did Alexander Wolf betray? What part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has Alexander Vukic given up? What part of the territory has the Republic of Serbia lost since Alexander Vukic was in power? She hasn't lost an absolute inch of her territory. What Alexander Vucic is doing is he's fighting for KIM, fighting for KIM with all possible means of peace because he's done the war to the ultims in every country. If there is a war, Mr. Sarovic, I don't mind going to war, but then going to war, you and I, not sitting in Belgrade, and some other children and some other people going to die for KIM or any other Serbian country. Let's put those wars aside now. There were too many of them. We now have a duty to Serbia's citizens to defend the Serb people living on KIM with a wise, responsible, rational policy. What the Serbian people think of Alexander Vukic and his politics has shown you now in the last elections. So the Serbian list, which enjoyed official Belgrade's support, has won convincingly in all municipalities where Serbs are in the majority of KIM. So you don't have a problem with me. You can say whatever you want for me. I don't mind. I'm telling you that people in Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, in Leposavic, in all other municipalities in KIM where Serbs voted 98% for the Serbian list because they knew – voting for the Serb list they voted for Alexander Vukic's politics. It bothers you that the Serbian people in KIM love Alexander Vukic, who believes in him, who believes they will not betray him, that they will not sell him, and that they will not leave him at large, that is your problem. It is our pride to have such a man as president of the party and president of the Republic. Since you have already reached the quote of Alexander Vukic, tell us which part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia have we lost since Alexander Vukic is Prime Minister or President of the Republic? What have we lost? What did he sign that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? What has happened to the Serbian people in Serbia, the people of the Republic of Serbia, anything that Alexander Vukic did, and what is to the harm of the Serbian people, except in the heads of people who do not love Alexander Vukic for political reasons? Serbian citizens see what Aleksandar Vukic is doing and what is more important to see Serbs living on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62813	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Comrade Sarovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62814	So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how my predecessor's right to talk about certain people without telling them they're exactly the people his political party was working with? So, if we're talking about Mr. Gilas, we Serbian radicals, we've always criticised him in the most intense way possible, and Gilas is the man you've been talking about for years, you haven't said a single ugly word. You know, after 2012, instead of being responsible for millions of euros, which you say he robbed from Serbian citizens, you made him president of the basketball union of Serbia, he was in excellent communication, as he said, with the Prime Minister at the time, and Alexander Vukic also said, that he had always given the basketball alliance as much money as needed and as much as they had asked. Now, how can you in this way, someone who is a thief and who stole 500 million euros, or how much do you claim to give money and to place it on significant and agreed functions? Secondly, you are talking about Bosko Obradovic, your majority in RIK made it possible to repeat the election in some 15 polling stations, so that Bosko Obradovic, who did not cross the 5% census and his coalition list, would get mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We, from the SRS, immediately branded it and our representatives in the RIK voted against it. You're talking about Vuk Jeremic, so you supported Vuk Jeremic in some election at the UN, as I recall. Isn't that what happened? And we, the Serbian Radicals, always sharply criticized everything he did, at the time he was in government, when he was a errand boy, Boris Tadic, until today. We don't have anything with these people, your problem is that when a concrete discussion starts, here I am now, Mr. Milicevic, returning to retirement and speaking again specifically again, you have kidnapped 12 months' pensions in six years' time by reducing the anti-constitutional base. Nowhere in the law is there a possibility that the basics of retirement shrink. Nowhere. How are you going to coordinate? You can fool around here anyway, but the base can't be touched. Accepting the the thesis that it can decrease 10% would mean that it can be 30% and 50% and 90%. That's impossible. In democratic states, it's impossible. In those six years, I repeat the fiscal council's data, GDP growth was 21.1%, and inflation was over 26%, it had to be harmonised, or pensions had to be harmonised by at least 32%, for those six years. Then calculate how many pensioners would receive more. Instead, you increase by 8.9% and say it's better than it was in 2014. It's better, but that doesn't mean you didn't take away their significant financial resources. That doesn't mean you don't kidnap them today. This does not mean that 450,000 new pensioners will not suffer as long as they live and as long as they receive pensions, because the tax base has not been harmonised for the last six years, according to the law that was in force until then. What you're talking about - the Constitutional Court did not make a decision, the Constitutional Court in Serbia is a laughing stock, and you have told Mr Martinovic many times when you were a radical, and often later you complained about the courts in Serbia. You say the hour - we arrest, the courts release, it's Gilas's judges, Tadic's, that's what yellow thieves set up, and the hour you say, their decisions are valid. As the wind blows, sometimes it suits you, sometimes it doesn't answer. Come on, bring at least one principle into what you're doing. Any, but we know what we're gonna stick to. And you, as sunflowers, bend in the wind, turn to the sun, and you are the hour here, you are the hour of ruin, the hour of time and the EU, it is the hour of our Kosovo, the hour is not ours. Let's finally hear what it is, which it isn't, so try to hold at least one parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62815	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62816	I thank the chairman. I point to a breach in Article 103 regarding Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, given that we are significantly away from the agenda and I think that you have allowed the debate to go in another direction, especially where there is absolutely no basis for any criticism when it comes to what we are discussing today, which is pension laws and support for pensioners. Those who criticised the opposition earlier pointed out some facts that are absolutely unacceptable. First of all, it is pointed out what it was until 2012, where there is obviously some sort of amnesia about what happened after that year 2012. Who has introduced financial discipline and financial order in this country, who has stabilised Serbia's fiscal policy, who has made investment investments possible, investment renaissance in Serbia and who has provided a large number of jobs, and thus the budget fillout and the orderly fill-up of the budget and who is sincerely and worthy of the interests of pensioners in the Republic of Serbia? Everything we've heard, absolutely nothing is said about these questions that I've now asked, apart from the flat, arbitrary and any other criticisms, so even Ivica Dacic was mentioned by 2012, and yet there is amnesia that this same Ivica Dacic did not bring, as did Alexander Vukic, the 2001 Privatisation Act, or 2002, which left hundreds of thousands of people without a job, by which there were tens of thousands of absolute criminal privatisations, and thus the seizure of pensioners, as people say from their mouths. That's what you should have said, who did it, not honoring those who put this country on its good feet, brought it back from the abyss and what my respected colleagues and Aleksandar Martinovic and the Government of Marinkovic said was impossible to deny. I think it's high time for the president to comment on what we should comment on, and that's the only agenda, which is the law that my predecessors affirmed as a law that supports pensioners, and we're here to verify that support when we vote for this law. The only thing I'm going to agree to, the only thing I'm going to be completely equal to is the thinking of my opposition colleagues, is the fact that it's high time that the pensioner is never taken away from him again. Pensioners must be allowed a decent life, a normal life, and they must be given what belongs to them as their acquired right, and I must enable them to do whatever they have done for this country through the past work, and in this way they owe it, and the state is on the other hand obliged to pay them back. In that sense, we should continue today's debate, exclusively on legal proposals, not on daily political talks and supersedes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62817	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. I agree with you completely, but it's not up to me, it's up to me to allow MPs to speak when they point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know it's my duty to give them my word. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62818	Article 107, Mr. Milicevic. So, we're not in a coalition with Nenado Canka, there's nothing to do with the SNS with Dragan Gilas and his election as president of the basketball union of Serbia, and I don't know why we're bringing ourselves into this context. As for the criticism that we once had to take a stand. Here, we've taken a stand. So, I quoted the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, that certain colleagues won't read it, that's their problem. I will read it again for Serbia's citizens. Therefore, Article 63a, the annual personal coefficient for the calendar year in which the right is exercised, is a relationship, it is the elements which determine the amount of the pension, the ratio of the total earnings, the basics of the insurance and the level of the contracted insurance paid for that calendar year and the accounting amount of the average annual earnings for the same calendar year. The data on the average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia are then defined in item 2 as the average annual earnings of the average monthly earnings of the Republic of Serbia from the beginning of the calendar year to the end of each month, in the calendar year, the authority responsible for statistics affairs, i.e. RSZ. Anyone who can read, who can read the laws is clear what it is. So, and the pension level is fully defined by this law and the thing here is quite clear. What I was also going to say is, it's constantly transferring to Alexander Vukic, and he betrayed Kosovo and Metohija, and he sold it, and he's going to sign something, and then it's going to happen after that. Here, I ask you now – what was signed by Aleksandar Vukic, which is at the expense of the Serbs at KIM? What part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia did Alexander Vukic give up in writing, verbally or in any other way? Alexander Vukic, above all, is the first politician in Serbia since 1995 to start with the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with MPs, along with members and supporters of the SNS, to officially mark, not unofficially, but officially, that it be a state honour for those who were expelled to Storm in 1995. Aleksandar Vukic is the only politician since 1995 when the "Storm" unfortunately happened to Serbs in Republika Srpska and Krajina, who said that "Storms" will no longer be anywhere, where Serbs live, both in KIM, and in Republika Srpska, and in any other country that was created in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. So, what would be good for you to tell the citizens of Serbia – which is the legally binding document you keep talking about, Alexander Vukic signed, in front of whom, which part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic gave up and from which part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia have the citizens been expelled since Alexander Vukic was Prime Minister or President of the Republic? I don't know about that part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Pogroms happened during some others who kept quiet about it. Alexander Vukic leads a completely different policy and we support him in that. That Serbs never again experience "Storm" anywhere, in Kosovo and Metohija, or in Republika Srpska, or in any other country created in the ruins of the former SFRY. That's our policy. How can we do that? Well, among other things, by strengthening our economy, because strengthening the economy doesn't just mean you have more money in your budget than having a stronger army, better equipped, better health care, better education, better roads, better quality infrastructure. These are all elements that make one state strong. Serbia is a strong country today. Serbia is stronger today than some countries in the Balkans that are in the EU, which are in the NATO Pact. Here, Alexander Vukitch brought the data himself. So we're dealing today, we're dealing with the capacity of our defence forces, with one Hungary that's both in the EU and NATO Pact. (President: I thank you. I'm done. So it's a success I think for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's not what Alexander Vukic does for himself, he doesn't buy tanks, helicopters, planes for himself, but buys for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Could we have obtained all that military technique if it hadn't been for the economic measures Alexander Vukic carried out? Of course, if we wouldn't still have one or no planes, we'd still melt tanks, we'd still be the Paris in the Balkans that anyone could step on. We're not that anymore, we're a proud, upright state, sovereign state, who runs its own policy. We have not betrayed anyone, nor sold anyone, nor do we intend to do so. On the contrary, we also help Serbs in KIM, just as we help Serbs in Republika Srpska. For the first time in history, the Republic of Serbia is building factories in Republika Srpska, not only in Republika Srpska, we are building factories in Serbian areas which are unfortunately due to the 1995 event, otherwise clean spray wrappers of the provinces, Drvar, Glamoc, Grahovo, etc., we are building factories in that part of the Federation of BiH. What kind of politician did that? Nothing but Alexander Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62819	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Indeed, as you have seen during today's debate, I have no objection to extending the debate, that, with what is the subject of today's session, we are also talking about coalition partners, and about the defence system, and about KIM, we have reached criminal acts. Now, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. As I said, I don't mind, we'll continue the debate of colleagues, Sarovic, so we can't wait for all of it. Now, in accordance with Article 87, we will take a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62821	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 298th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, even though they receive their salary neatly. It's clear to me that one of the previous speakers, who isn't at this point in the O.R., who has been advertised for hours today, suffers from some old times, some would say to old times, probably to him those old times and good times. These were the times when he successfully co-operated with Dragan Gilas, when they co-operated well in the Belgrade City Assembly, when they shared boards of directors and supervisory boards in public enterprises and institutions in Belgrade. But what is not good, the product and co-operation was both economic disaster and Belgrade but also Serbia. What I can't possibly understand is that it bothers him when we increase pensions or in this case we pay one-time aid to the pensioners, but from real grounds, so without borrowing, without overpriced loans, but by healing our economy, we've recovered the state of public finances, we've improved the business picture, we've filled the budget. Unlike his DS friends who, when they were in power, took expensive and overpriced commercial loans, loans at an interest rate of 7.5% and 8% to pay before the pension elections. We can help pensioners today with one-off aid of 5,000 dinars, as much as he is trying to show it as a meaningless sum, and Serbian citizens know very well that this is not a meaningless sum and that we are increasing salaries in the public sector from 8% to 15%, as we said and that we are increasing pensions from next year, so I am talking about a regular increase in pensions by more than 5% and helping citizens in charge of Swiss francs and continuing investment in infrastructure, in highways, bridges, hospitals, health institutions, schools, kindergartens, everything else. All this is good news for Serbian citizens, but it is, above all, the result of hard and hard work and difficult reforms that began at a time when Aleksandar Vukic was the president of the Serbian government. Today we can say that we are harvesting the fruits of this work. There's more good news. For example, a leap on the world's Duing Business List, as we heard yesterday, and on this very news, the last one in a series of good news is being broken, i.e. I would say different political parties, those political factors, but some media who are truly looking forward to every success of Serbia, each joint venture and those political representatives, and some media who just hate every success of Serbia, so most media reported the news exactly what it should look like, which is that Serbia has achieved a four-place jump on the world's Duing Business List. It's not just news and the title of the news itself, there are several more categories and parameters to determine the success of the world's Duing business list. So different parameters are at stake. For example, there is a category of obtaining building permits and that is where Serbia has progressed two places, and now it has taken ninth position, as we have heard from one of the previous speakers. Serbia is 58th in the area of registering property. As far as getting credit, we're in 67 places. When it comes to paying taxes - 85th position. In cross-border trade - 23th place, according to an executive in the official World Bank website, Serbia is among 42 world economies in 2018. In 2019, she implemented regulatory reforms in three or more of the 10 evaluated areas, improving the conditions of ease and business, and it is noted that Serbia has facilitated the acquisition of construction permits, the introduction of a new online portal, the reduction of administrative taxis, and has improved the reliability of power by power-generating trafostations, installing a remote control system and improving network maintenance. These are all parts of the same report. The report states that our country has strengthened the protection of minority investors, requiring an external audit, disclosure of transactions of connected persons, publication of ownership and control structures, and so on. Well, it is added that we have made it easier to pay taxes by introducing internal terms for refund of value added tax. A whole series of parameters affecting this jump we talked about. But one media, one TV "N1" is in question, has reported differently about this event. ‘N1’ has chosen one category of all of these categories. One category only where Serbia has not made progress and has shown it as the main news. So they even tried to figure out how we actually went back on this list, look, we didn't make a four-place jump, we actually went back to one place. As I said earlier, that is the difference between those who sincerely look forward to our success and those who hate the success of their country of birth. They hate Serbia's successes, they look forward to any failures, they look forward to elementary disasters, they look forward to rains, floods, and most of all they look forward to when a communal problem occurs, God forbid, a crack pipe or so on, it's joy, then it's a joy for them. That is why I say that the failures of our country are only for those who do not want well either for the citizens of Serbia or for the state of Serbia. Their policy is -- the worse Serbia, the better for them. But in practice, it turns out that the worse it gets, the better Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62822	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62823	Thank you, Chairman. In the principle debate at today's session, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group stressed, of course, that the SPS and our parliamentary club support these laws and that we will certainly vote for the same. What needs to be pointed out today is the fact that this debate is not in the direction of anyone investing in pensioners, that in any way we are trying to gain their sympathy. On the contrary. It is our duty both civil and patriotic and each other to support the people who, by their past work, have left their mark, who by their engagement and pawning in some former period, perhaps not long ago, but mostly quite a long time ago, so that the descendants can enjoy the benefits of their work, on the one hand, and that they welcome their peaceful and peaceful late years of life. Now this isn't pathetic, these are facts that are immeasurable, that are lifelike, and that's all that's waiting for us one day. However, there are times when pensioners had an extremely difficult status and position. These are the times when they, not only were taken away when they were reduced to a literal level so that I would not insult anyone by a beggar's stick. Today, when I reported to the Rules of Procedure, I pointed out one fact that no one can question. This is the fact that since the five-octobaric changes, everything that is at the expense of not only the pensioners, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is, in addition to the unfavourable expectations and making promises that represented literally the sale of fog. Then there was something that no country, and especially Serbia, could stand so easily, Serbia still fought it. What was she up against? She has fought one criminal environment, with a criminal period that generated a huge number of unemployed, where about 10,000 companies were privatised under criminal law, where devastationed factories, exhausted all the resources that the Republic of Serbia had, a huge number of employees remained on the streets, and pensioners without what life means to them, which is the regularity of pensions and a decent amount of pensions that deserve to be received monthly. Of course, citizens have shared, therefore, those who are not pensioners, the same torment with the pensioners. But what did we have as a consequence? As a consequence, we had a fact that there appeared an enormously larger number of retired persons compared to persons employed. An enormously larger number. What does that mean? It implies that it is impossible to fill the budget and that one who is employed and working is able to achieve those receipts that involve the regularity of payment to the budget on the one hand, and on the other hand, the regularity of payment from the budget to pensioners. This criminal period, fortunately for us, has passed but the consequences remain. The consequences are still being treated today and we are successfully fighting to ultimately eliminate them, because this government, this president of the state, has also managed to introduce financial discipline and fiscal discipline when it comes to our country. By introducing this same fiscal discipline, we have made it possible to stabilise the budget, on the one hand. On the other hand, to contribute to the fact that the Republic of Serbia, that is, our country, appears as something that is the ground where investment renaissance will occur, where investments will, in any case, only increase through some kind of domino effect and that this investment trend continues today with the consequences of a larger number of employees, and by the fact that we have a larger number of employees, we have a relaxed pension fund. Relaxed in the sense that we can plan an increase in pensions. The regularity of pension payments is not doubtful at all, but this trend which implies an increase in pensions must continue and it must be incomparably more favourable than it is now. Why? Well, because the pensioners at one point suffered the most severe blow. On their shoulders, however weak in terms of the life of pensioners, they endured a burden that, on the one hand, was a brave move, a very brave move by the leadership of the state, where a radical cut had to be withdrawn, and on the other hand, where pensioners, mostly with understanding, accepted that this courage had to come up with an adequate response, which is that in some way one state would overcome with certain patience, and even with certain inconveniences that relate to pension cuts, but in any case after that, there was a period that implies a period of improvement, which implies a period which we support in the MP club SPS, and I am sure that we will always give up support and will never give up on this concept that implies the concept of a better life of all retired persons in the Republic of Serbia. When I say this, I want to underline a parallel to the extent that the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the good moves of the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, the President and the Government, has managed to preserve the stability that still exists today. The parallel is withdrawn from the country, which is both Europe's largest and most powerful economic power, i.e. the EU, which is Germany. The reminders for the sake of this, distinguished counterpart Goran Kovacevic knows this and how well he knows as a type of expert, in Germany, pensions are on average 48% compared to salaries or employee earnings in Germany. In 2012, the Germans decided on a measure that is certainly not popular, but in order not to endanger that economic power, in order not to endanger that economic power, they had to resort to it, which is to increase the age limit for retirement. Thus, the age limit for a certain population of the German state was raised to 67 years of age. The German central bank has decided on this step to preserve, as we have preserved, budgetary stability on the one hand, and on the other hand to allow the number of employees to continue to realise what is expected from such a strong economic state, and this is a regular inflow into the German state budget. Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, the age limit continues to increase in Germany. When I say, unfortunately, I mean some aspects that each of us must accept as natural. There is now a trend in Germany that people who were born in 2001, so now they gain their age, can retire only from 69 years of age. Let's be completely realistic here. What is the working ability of a person with 69 years of life relative to a significantly younger person, so let's say even 65 years of life, because in that age of four years, it's not a little bit. It is about the fact that the biological age is limited, and the restriction of the biological century imposes some other circumstances and some new rules, and that is also the threat of employment or work ability and everything else. Whether it's a good measure or not, anyone from some multidisciplinary point of view, of course, a doctrinal one, will give his judgment. I will certainly not define myself in that direction because I have no profession for such a thing and it would be extremely incorrect for me to comment on anything in that direction, but it is important that Serbia, unlike Germany, has avoided this kind of problem resolution and so far we do not need to increase the age-limit of a working-age population and a working-employed population when it comes to meeting the conditions for going to retirement. From a political point of view, it can also be an unpopular measure, as just raising the age line in some European countries has cost a number of governments their political fates, so that the political fate of these governments, such as Italy, was such that governments were either removed or resigned. That is why I think that what the Republic of Serbia is doing, is our authority and how useful and good it is when it comes to protecting the interests of the employees on the one hand, which is, consequently, retired from the other side. What I will finally point out is the fact that even this support in terms of the amount of money that has been defined as helping pensioners must in no way be our last gesture and legal solution or a system solution that enables support for pensioners and contributes to their better lives as part of the Serb population, but it must be our continuing activity as the MPs and this home that we, on the one hand, represent to the citizens, and on the other hand, we represent the citizens here. Therefore, once again, honourable ministers, the SPS Parliament Club gives support and we will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62824	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62825	Just tell me how much time is left for the MP's group? (President: You have 18.08.) Here you go. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when you say one-time assistance and today we talk about the announced one-time assistance for our oldest citizens, then by definition you know that this someone is socially endangered and one-time assistance is for someone who can't with his incomes he's made, whether it's about pensions, profits, that it works, that he has economic problems and that he's on the verge of existence. Now, instead of a fundamental reform of the pension system in Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has acknowledged that the largest number of pensioners in Serbia have been socially affected, that they are having a hard time living, and statistics show that. I'm not going to individualize this whole thing, because I have a pensioner in my house, my mother is 75 years old, and she's retired from a first-class disability, and her pension is very small even though she's working age and started and ended up in a middle-aged position. Some will say it is because it is her company where she started and ended her work experience as it is and it was such an act, but it is because it is just like many Kragujevci and many other people who have worked in some industrial complexes that have been destroyed, which have been sold out by this thieving authority since 2000, after the five-octobaric coup, have suddenly remained absolutely unsettled by the country with very small incomes, forced to rely on its inhabitants, first of all on its children. Today in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are almost 2/3 pensioners living alone who have no one to rely on. They also need social assistance and every kind of concern. You also have a situation where in a huge number of people who receive, regardless of the amount of pension, children are forced and grandchildren to demand their pensions because they do not have the opportunity to live well. Well, if they're in the community, there they are, and they're making some income, they're making minimum profits, and even if one of their people has this minimum pension, they're trying to make ends meet, but it's leading them to new problems. In trouble that they must be in debt with the banks, and I am not at a session when there is a debate on budgets and such and similar topics, I will prepare that information, because it is very verifiable, how many pensioners in Serbia, on which basis, take loans. Many of those who take the cash loans and banks of this thief, which Dinkic has brought to Serbia, normally, are eager to wait, and have extended the deadline for the pensioners to 78 years old, imagine, for such loans, just to lure them and lure them, and they, what, will lead them to their grandkids, their daughter, their son, have no place to go. Then we return to some past or long ago, depending on how you look at the period from your arrival to power to this period, but let's take what happened from 2014 to today and tell the pensioners nicely that your hypocritical thanks to them that they have endured the greatest burden of reform should never have happened. They did not have to bear the burden because they are pensioners, and there are those who have, only 29 of them are with pensions that are extremely high in the Belgrade area, so there are many in Serbia, but let go of those exceptions. These yellow national pensions, too, were handing out to whom they arrived, only to propagate their Western politics or obey them. There was no clear criterion, but let's take these normal people, take people who have a farm pension, who have the lowest incomes, which are below 15,000 dinars or those that are on this border to this lex specialis that you've brought, and that their pensions are reduced or not, like my mother's case, our neighbors or the wider circle of people. Now, these people are the most affected. For what? Because, however you cut them off, and you've done a lot, and you've been obliged if you abolished that law, then with the corresponding interest, to pay them back, if you're now boasting about such budgeting, they won't, in the future, talk through your proposal for a new model for calculating pensions that they have a safer future, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says well – the state of Serbia is obliged to take care of the economic and social security of pensioners. And if you ask all of them, it's, like, two-thirds of those who are on the verge of existence, can they say, here's not even listening to the president of the state, the MPs, you know how to speak better, some of them read a little bit, some of them getting ready. You bring out mostly information to praise the authorities. Then you ask them, meet someone on the street: “Do you feel safe now that they have promised you, behold, 5,000 help? “ Oh, the things we've been listening to. As the minister appeared, he said, "They will be able to prepare glory." They'll be able to make anything with 5,000 dinars? That's really amazing. "They will be able to dress, to buy something new." Please, you look, now take out who's got 5,000 dinars and go. What are you going to buy at the nearest supermarket? How many groceries and how many days can you survive out of 5,000 dinars? Don't really because media and media manipulations and such beautiful stories and suggestions on these people. You know, the easiest thing to do is manipulate old people. These old people are by nature and worried about their health, about their family and what will be in the future. They know they have this working century behind them, but how their children will, and those who are alone, how they will do themselves. If you tell them, “These before us have destroyed everything, ” which are: “They have sold out everything, they have destroyed the pension fund. Because of them, you lost, at one point it was all blocked, they were taking loans," which is true: "To pay out pensions. If they return," of course they cannot return to power with a magic wand, I mean these yellow traitors and their listeners. We want us Serbian radicals to mate with one healthy national, economic and every other policy with you and take command of the government in our own hands, and therefore we promise a better life for both pensioners and everyone else. Now you are scaring them and saying: “Behold, if they come, there will be no payment of pensions. ” So what's my first neighbor gonna say, cousin? People are scared. What, I don't even have bread tomorrow, and the question is, what can I buy with this? With a consumer basket, which you estimated to be minimal, which is actually an average consumer basket, but that's a minimum, 37,000 dinars, how much is it necessary, ladies and gentlemen, the lowest pensions, and these are the most users in Serbia, here are the averages, to fill the consumer basket? Thirty-seven thousand dinars, and the lowest pension below 14,000 dinars, and the family's agricultural pension is just a miserable 8,000 dinar, and the average of the agricultural pension is 11,000 dinars. Then you will say, well, what does it matter, those who are farmers, they have and what to eat and what to produce. Please, look at what a Serb village looks like and how unfortunately it is an old-age household, and are they at all able at that age to perform this simple reproduction, when it comes to the stock fund, which was destroyed by the previous authorities, and is nothing better in this sense today, can they and what can they do with the poor 11,000 dinars that only one paid for himself? Usually that's the way it is in the country, that host for yourself, and look at the women in the country, and today both these young women today and these young women have neither pension and social, they work at home, they protect children, they help in the field, and now the host, who came at some late hour, has these 11,000 dinars, he needs to buy drugs. The drugs are terribly expensive and just the ones that are most needed for these old people, and these are also many pulmological and other diseases, they have to be bought. You go ahead, go ahead, God forbid any of you should do this, that for fathers and mothers, so look at the price of these drugs. Could that pensioner buy it if he didn't have any help from the kids or anyone else? Believe me, these 5,000 dinars, you're talking now -- they're going to go, they're going to buy, they're going to celebrate, they're going to be miserable, maybe those 5,000 dinars are going to give for some medical device, buy themselves some vitamins, to improve their general health system. So don't talk like that, with so much praise. Then you say, "You know that 1,700,000 users, so now you, politically, by all means, are courting them, and therefore you tell such stories, give them a concrete solution. Here, we have better solutions, Mr. Minister. You said that now, today's budget rebalancing story, so that we could do a transfer and a different structure of income and expenditure, what we would do. This is not the first time we have spoken this way today, because we have promised both pensioners and all other citizens of Serbia that by coming to power we will break the spine of the import lobby. Because of the CEFTA agreement, because of your EU advocacy, because you protect domestic importers, and many of them are Thai firms, our GDP is not what it should be, our production is not at the lowest level possible, and this is about the processing of food, the production of consumer goods, which is needed to protect domestic production, while Serbia is losing between 700m and 800m euros each year because they can freely import everything and everything, to suffer our market, to import meat that anyone knows when its deadline has expired or is at the end of the deadline, and then put it into our traffic. We have heard and observed things and, in the end, you can see from the structure of domestic production and from what you've brought on the side, you're boasting about giving these subsidies to investors, and the domestic economy is very little, or so little that you can just name some companies in Serbia, well, some of them really deserved. I talked about it, I mentioned, I don't want to go any further, I'm going to make a commercial, "Bekament" from Arangelovac, really a family firm that has developed this business for a reason and is steaming this foreign company on the domestic market, but you know some, such a disaster as to these economic givings. Then we had a moment ago and all day long and such observations. If we don't have that production, we can't fill the budget register, and then there's uncertainty about the pensioners and then they, if we hadn't brought in so many foreign investors, there wouldn't be production, there wouldn't be an increase in GDP, and he wouldn't have been able to do what you predicted and projected for this year, which Minister Mali himself admitted, and then the pensioners couldn't get their pensions. You keep saying that, and people get it in their heads. Then you put maltenes in their bones, and when that day D comes and the day of the election, he's going to say, "Oh, dear, if anyone else, like they told me, I heard it, come, I'm out of my pension." So you have that savings. You have savings from NGOs. You have savings from various specialized contracts, services per contract. You have savings from the unmoved financing of certain public enterprises, and above all, permanent matching of the holes in the Elektroprivreda, which is being taken care of by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at all this, and if you'd strengthened domestic production and opened up what our crafts, entrepreneurship is about, if you'd given more subsidies there, then you'd have the security that these young people won't leave Serbia. I think that yesterday, my colleague Seselj spoke about how many of them left these EU countries, which on the lowest scale, were the last to enter, so let's welcome that fate. You're free to invent a dual education system both in high school and high school, when are we going to face the fact that in ten years, all that workforce is going to be disabled, so the question is who's going to retire? Isn't it disturbing, Mr. Minister, the fact that 750,000 people pay taxes and contributions to pension and social security on minimum earnings? You have a drastic decline in those who have made more payments, and now they say – if it has already been destroyed and the pension fund has failed, we have lost trust, why and that we are paying, then there is a rest in that gray zone, and a minimumer who boasts that it will be 30 thousand and 20 dinars from January 1st. What do you need to do? Well, it's certainly not for the SRS, so let me tell you, today you've probably tried to make a joke, so you told your colleagues, you call it wrong, and you tie it to Switzerland, that Swiss model, but it's not good. We promise, if the citizens, since it is now and every one of your exhibits and appearances for pre-election purposes, if, and this is the SRS programme, if the citizens and pensioners give us trust, we will index pensions with a different model. This model that you're predicting is not good at harmonising with profit growth and projected inflation. The pensioners will be at a loss. They are already at a loss and these 450,000 new ones, which have received a solution, because that index point has not been changed since 2012. You've already damaged them. And we, as it should be done, will coordinate pensions with profit growth and price growth for a little bit. Are you socially safe, which is the state's concern for pensioners, shows you how much for the nominal amount you get, whether pensions or profits, you can buy something, and then, if we're coordinating, and we publicly promise, that that's how we'll coordinate pensions, and not like you're designing fictitious inflation, so you say -- everything's great, nothing's expensive, you go to the store for a month for 10 to 100 dinars of expensive items, and it's broad consumption and those that are necessary for life. Therefore, it is also necessary to coordinate regularly, and on the other hand, Article 207(2). The Law on PIO, which introduced an increase in pension only part of pensioners, to be deleted with the introduction of social assistance to all citizens, because you cannot make such a selection. Now, as Mr. Risticevic is heard, and he and I agree, to finish this exposure with the problem of agricultural pensioners and agricultural insurance companies. In fact, over 220 thousand agricultural insurance companies, many of them have gained the condition to retire, cannot retire, Mr. Minister, because they have a debt of more than 160 billion on the basis of giving. So they're extremely hard to live on and they're forced to live off the miserable retirement of whoever's in their home. The Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Risticevic... (President: Bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... I end up talking to you as a competent ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and none of you have any hearing, as you are now not interested in, Mr Risticevic, Martinovic, Atlagic, the fate of 220 thousand agricultural pensioners. You don't care, you have quite decent, and some of you have extremely high incomes. They will not be able to retire, because you promised them by coming to you, Vukic as prime minister, and then Anna Brnabic, when you were elected, that you would solve this problem, that the state would write off that debt or make them a decent reprogramme so that they could retire. Pensioners under this authority can expect to live only worse, prices will accumulate even more, the import lobby will continue to do whatever it wants, we will not have domestic production, you will continue to lie to them, deceive them, bringing foreign investors to whom you will give 11,000 subsidies, and pensioners will starve and live as poor as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62826	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62827	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing a decision on amendments and additions to the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2019 to create the necessary conditions for funding the payment of rights under the law governing the pension and disability insurance system. In other words, pensioners will once receive 5,000 dinars, with about 1.7 million of them. Two weeks ago, we discussed a positive budget rebalancing, i.e. a surplus of money in our national cash register, which will now be deployed according to priorities. It's about 46.6 billion dinars. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. Do you, Mr. Marinkovic, hear someone yelling in the O.R. or am I the only one who hears it? So, there are 46.6 billion dinars, and that tells us that fiscal consolidation reforms have produced results and that economic policy is visibly focused on the right things, which are a stable budget and the possibility that even in the next period it will be a surplus in the budget. It's good to say what a Swiss formula is. Today we mentioned it several times, but it is good to say what it is because it returns us in one period until 2012 and in the period when Aleksandar Vukic took over the government, and later Ana Brnabic and leads us to what things they were facing, as regards the financial stability of our budget. So, the Swiss formula is, for all the pensioners that are following us, harmonising pension rates with prices and profits, 50% relative to inflation and 50% to profit growth. This is expected from January 1st, which is exactly an increase in pensions per Swiss formula, by more than 5%. This system is better for pensioners, because profit growth is usually higher than inflation, so this is how pensions can grow more. The reason for harmonising pensions is to maintain their relative purchasing power. So, as the economy grows and develops, it grows and earns, if profits grow, it makes sense to grow and pensions. If pensions were to be coordinated only with inflation, their relative purchasing power would be reduced, and this way they will be consistent with the level of economic growth. The Swiss formula, to remind ourselves, was introduced very briefly in 2003, and was very quickly abandoned. By 2008, and still until 2012, the pension system in Serbia was unsustainable or highly sustainable. By 2008, pensions were in line only with price increases and their relationship to salaries was that they actually decreased. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. ) Let us remember that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, during only one year, increased pensions by 30%... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please. Excuse me, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Go on. ) So, let us remember that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, during only one year, increased pensions by 30%, which was a shock to the budget. Our economy was unable to support the financing of such pensions. In 2010, however, pension alignment with inflation and economic growth was higher than 4%, which has never occurred. This is why we are now coming to 2014 and the difficult measures that have affected pensioners. For all the reasons I mentioned earlier, the system was bad both for wages and for pensions and for the state at all and no one in the end took responsibility for everything that happened until 2012. It is very important that pensions grow on a stable and sustainable basis, just like salaries and then we will be able to actually talk about a better standard of living, and there are some facts that support our ability when we talk about a better standard of living. For example, in 2012, the minimum profit was 16,000 dinars, and now it will be more than 30,000 dinars. We have a GDP that is growing despite the IMF's expectations for 3.5% growth, and we hope that growth will be greater. Remember that in October 2016 we talked about better positioning Serbia on the Duing Business List. That's when we moved from ninety-seven places to 47th place, and now we're in 44th place, and that's actually the success of all Serbian government resolutions. The World Bank said it saw the greatest progress in issuing building permits, protecting minority shareholders and resolving bankruptcy. So, further, Serbia is the first in the world to attract foreign direct investment. Also, yesterday we saw that equipment arrived from China to build a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest and this will be the biggest project of the fast track and a new way of working on railways and telecommunications. Also, on November 9th, a share of the eastern arms of Corridor 10 is opening, which tours the Siscevac gorge and we will have a complete highway to Bulgaria, which will also mean a lot for the economy and trade. All of these are the results of the work of various Serbian government resolutions that, when synchronised through progress, lead to Serbia being a more successful, more modern country, a more developed country in which wages and pensions will increase on a real basis, a country in which they will live better, and that is why I will also support this proposal in the day for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62828	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62829	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say that this decision is extremely important for our pensioners, because, no matter what, on 5 November, they will receive one-time assistance. I have to say, she's getting a pension raise since New Year's. Some also oppose today in this high house here, and I must remind them that, before Alexander Vukic came to power, the state of Serbia was economically, industrialally, infrastructureally totally devastated. When we say that it was industrial, economical, infrastructure-disastered, and then let me say without security, the safety of our citizens. Why am I saying this? To figure out why we went to take away, as some say, pensions and wages. Is the country that has been humiliated, a country without plans and programmes, a country without hope and faith of its citizens in a better future, a country with too much debt, forgotten today, gentlemen, a country completely destroyed by state institutions, a country without any international reputation, and the people of Serbia were totally Satanized and we found the country completely robbed by robbery privatisation. Gentlemen, if that is how we found the state of Serbia in 2012, then it was inevitable to move towards the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia and our present president, then the President, since 2014, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has adopted a programme of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is now the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of MPs in this high house, and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are conducting. In order for the modernisation to work out, we had to go with pension cuts and wages. I guess it's clear to everyone, what's most important is that it's clear to our citizens and it's clear to our pensioners. What's very important, which is that if it wasn't for fiscal consolidation, there wouldn't have been pensions as big as they are today, if there hadn't been investments planned and achieved by the modernisation process, there wouldn't have been today this raise, which we're talking about, the pensioners, if it hadn't been for the daily opening of the factory, there wouldn't have been a financial consolidation, and if it hadn't been for the opening of schools, roads, homes of health, hospitals wouldn't be here today, there wouldn't be no pensions either. If it hadn't been for new jobs normally, this wouldn't have happened. Is it necessary to convince someone in this high house and in the state of Serbia that it really was? I'm really sorry, Mr. Vice President, that there isn't here today in this tall home of our political opponents, but, look at the wonders, they're walking the streets turning into street circuses, calling themselves a self-proclaimed elite. Let me ask you, you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you believe, Mr. Marinkovic, that Vuk Jeremic is a member of the international group of bandits, thieves and frauds of Elita? On behalf of his international co-operation centre, sustainable development, he received $200,000 from Mongolia. Is that the elite? He got paid by phantom energy companies in Shanghai and Hong Kong 4.5 million dollars. Is that a self-proclaimed elite? He got $120,000 from Qatar. In New York and the embassy in Berlin, $200,000. Is that a member of this elite? In the period from 2013 to 2017, he received as much as $7.9 million from various dubious sources and never explained to this day the name of what and the name of whom. I've been talking about it for two days, and where it might be money, because before every meeting of President Vukic with a significant statesman of the world, he's going to muddle our country, and so is the president of the state. He's probably getting a fee for that. Can you believe, dearly respected Members of the People and citizens of Serbia, that Dragan Gilas, the elite of the people known as the Giki Mafia? Be careful, he entered politics as a common nudist, and came out of politics with 700m euros. Let me quote on the student-quote protests of the 1990s, and now one of the richest people in Serbia has finished a quote. You know who said that? His colleague, Professor Nenad Prokić, 25.10. 2019. Today. It's this Dragan Gilas, or elite self-proclaimed. Can you believe Sergei Trifunovic, in a folk called Sergei pee, is an elite? The self-proclaimed eliteist said in 31st January 2019, quote -- Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not to Serbs, completed a quote. It is he who is working with his associates against our country, or is behind the secession of Kosovo from Serbia, and is accusing it of our president Vukic. In October 2019, he called Alexander Vukic – a bald wretch, finished a quote, in a video he made on the summer, miraculously, in Indonesia, where he headed when he insulted journalist RTS Oliver Jovicevic when he called himself a prostitute. Trifunović was secretly in the U.S. in early 2019, on a luxury vacation, afterwards on a luxury vacation in Dubrovnik, and in Pula, and in Tivt, and now in Bali, Indonesia, where it comes from. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's the elite. Can you believe that in the elite self-proclaimed, Serbian, who calls himself "academist Dusan Todorovic", also called "tresshead". Why are you shaking your head? Because since the hatred of Alexander Vukic when the president's name is mentioned he shakes his head like this all the time, you could see it, out of hatred. On 18th July 2019, the academic on the N1 CIA "360 minutes" show said, quoting - the MPs are primitives, finished quote. Can you believe an academic and a professor say that? We're probably not gentlemen, and he belongs to the elite because he's away from the Traffic College because of his unhappiness. He fled to America during the bombing. He solved all his family's problems. He hired both his daughters to state colleges and here he is again on the streets like 1990. This is a man who, because of the role that brilliant actor Nenad Jezdic had at the opening of the highway "Milos Veliki" has informed the public that he will no longer buy Jezdic's, otherwise, excellent brandy. Can you believe, dear citizens, that this academic or man, however you like, belongs to the elite? Can you believe, respected citizens, that Biljana Srbanovic, called cocaine, who, when the late academic Dobrica Ćosic called our students from the diaspora to defend the country, is opposed to that and says, I quote – he was ashamed, handsome, evil, domicile, insecure, loose, uneducated, primitive and beneficial old man, a shame, finished quote. Can you believe, honourable MPs, that this is the elite? Can you believe that the elite belongs to Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a people known as the landlord. This is the professor who stole Milici Bajji's apartment in Obrovec, the 9th Braće Kurjakovica street, because he used the time of the 2000 rally, but, behold, he now stands for the street again and says this for the boycott of the election, quote – after the boycott we will ask for a new election and a turn by the army and police on the side of the protesters. Can you, respected citizens and students with whom he works, believe that he invites our army and the police to destroy power? It's the level of one professor. Well, that street boy wouldn't be the simplest guy to stand for it. It is this elite that daily defiles the president of the Republic, his most senior associates and distinguished members of the SNS. Now let me say it at the end. When opposition leaders Dragan Djilas, in a nation called Điki Mafia, Sergei Trifunovic, called Sergei Pisaje, Marko Bastic, called duvanovic, saw that their colleague Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of thieves, frauds and bandits, lives as in the song "Kavasaki", usually performed by popular Rasta, decided to take his steps. That's how the chorus -- she'd be Bali, little New York, little Paris, little yachts, planes, little London and Dubai, about expensive things, about expensive Ferrari, euros, stamps, kunas, dinars, dollars, finished quote, became their mantra, which perfectly describes them. That's who they are, and they keep muddying our president and his associates, and I tell them in the end, and the people know it better than I do. Aleksandar Vucic, a great Spanish statesman, a great Serbian reformer, so much so that the motor of modernization of the Republic of Serbia, which we are now conducting, and above all a great Serbian patriot and patriot, is unlike these Alliance for Serbia. Remember, never, ever, ever, Alexander Vukic will work against the interests of his country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62830	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62831	Thank you, Chairman. I think the injured member is Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. We haven't heard anything about what's on the agenda, and I think the previous speaker is doing it very well, since, of course, the media is going to broadcast all of these, I don't know what to call them, the things the gentleman said before me. Then I give myself the right to use these two minutes, to also talk about whatever I want and to ask myself, since I'm on Twitter, I've almost asked a poll...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62832	Mrs. Mihajlovska, you must specify a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62833	I said, point 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62834	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62835	He can only talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62836	And you're talking to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62837	Well, I'm asking -- if all that the previous speaker said was on the agenda, is it on the agenda, how can someone who is, say, a folk MP with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia get a space in the media? Am I supposed to use a dictionary here -- Ustasha whore, I don't know -- junkie, cocaine, etc.? Do I have to publish some of my pretentious photos, curse on Twitter, kill myself with someone to get me to say something, let's just say why they didn't get money help in the audit of the fund's budget, people with disabilities, not pensioners? Or, I can talk about what the spas in Serbia are completely inaccessible to people with disabilities, that no person who uses a wheelchair can access, let's say Prolom Banji and that there is being treated, if there are any urological problems. Or, I can talk about how colleges in Serbia aren't affordable, but unfortunately I won't get any space, not in the media, not in this assembly to talk about it, but I'm leaving here time for the gentleman to say some things that are really inappropriate to this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62838	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylovska. Of course, as was the case so far, you can always use your time and time of your MP group, 20 minutes as an authorised representative and seven minutes and 54 seconds of time of the SMS group. What you need to do is come to your work and come to parliament and say nothing else. You've had it all along. Here you go. You have the right to replicas, as you are now in breach of the Rules of Procedure, just come to work, nothing else. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. Professor Atlagic, on what grounds are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marco Atlagic: Ajudgment of the Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Tell me, which member did I hurt? (Marko Atlagic: Article 107) 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62839	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I am sorry that certain MPs do not have six months in this high house, and they receive salaries at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which do not appear today all day, and here they are now, calling out the MPs, putting in their mouth what we did not say. I'm supposed to say someone's a Ustasha whore. Shame on her. Shame on her. You saw for yourself that I didn't tell anyone. That's number one. Number two, did I insult anyone? I didn't. Learn something, a respected opposition, you told me to insult the MPs, and you said among other things that I said that he was a respected doctor, for the third time Jovo Bakic is a shithead. You didn't wonder if he said he was Alexander Vukic, in that sense, a garbage man, Angela Merkel. You are not criticising Jovo Bakic for why he said about Alexander Vukic, but for me just doubting myself, quoting myself, look at the stenogram, it's like I said that Jovo Bakić is a piece of shit Bill Clinton, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, like I said. You know what a piece of shit is? It's not what you think. That's the problem. Read it. A piece of shit means an unreliable man in Serbian. Look at the dictionary of Serbian speech in Vojvodina, distinguished Professor Petrovic, Tom 3, when you call me. You want more for someone who called me out of the opposition? To a sudden Chank, called the Gicos. I'm not so uneducated and rude that I think Nenad Canak is what you think. Gicoje Sebastian is a respected MP in the Romanian parliament, as contradictory as Nenad Canak is. When you come to this high house, you from the opposition, read something, get ready and then call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62840	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I invite you, too, Professor Atlagic and my colleague, Mihajlovska and Tatjana Macura, to return to the topic. There's no need for a charged atmosphere. Lovely Mihaylovska is one decent woman and you are, so let's get this session back on the table and discuss it. Tatjana Macura is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62841	Thank you. Article 103(1) has been injured. In fact, you just gave your word to the gentleman who asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is not possible to make the Rules of Procedure work of the National Assembly, which I do not object to, given the debate before that. Once again, I appeal to my colleagues in the National Assembly that the space they receive, which is directly passed on to the public service of RTS on another channel, is not being abused, that they plant various epithets of very prominent members of our society, such as Mr Jovo Bakic, whether we agree with his views or not, whether we agree with all those people who are publicly using the opportunity today to talk about the corrupt political atmosphere and the interpersonal relations on the political scene. So, one typical example that is repeated from session to session is abuse, as you say respectable, but I can't say respectable, because I don't know what a respected professor who spoke before me is. So we don't know why he abuses the assembly pay phone, except to be the speaker of what the government of the Republic of Serbia actually thinks and all people who don't have the same thinking as they do. I appeal once again, I hope this ends, that I will not report to the Rules of Procedure further, but I really want to distract the public that no one is stupid, nor that they can understand the messages sent from the House of the National Assembly and that no one, especially our colleagues, is here to be honored. The mirror of this congregation is not a professor who thus addresses political inexperience. Everything spoken in the House of the National Assembly is attributed to all of us. I sincerely hope that all of us
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62842	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. According to the Rules of Procedure, of course Professor Atlagic had the right and had the opportunity to just advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, had no right to seek replication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have the right, as I said to Mrs. Mihajlovski, to fight and to debate the ideas and policies of Mark Atlagic. For me, you are all equal and all equally respected when I am in this position of the chairman of Parliament and I cannot make any exception. So, you just have to, and I think you should comply with the Rules of Procedure by acting like one, and you have a chance to fight here in Parliament, no one is defending you. You have every right, you have the right to waste time, you have the right to seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to replicate. Here, we have all the time to debate today on this subject, but also on some other political ideas and to face political views. Here, I invite you to stay and debate on this particular topic. Don't just say we don't have a chance, we can't. Here we have, here we want to open this debate and debate and open a debate between the position and the opposition. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62843	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. In the name of courtesy, if anyone says of Jova Bakic it is the prominent Jovo Bakic, it is an infringement of the dignity of the National Assembly. Here we are sitting for whom Jovo Bakic recommended that we be chased through the streets. It was a little small for him, so he called for blood and reckonings. If that is the reputation that Jovo Bakic has, what to say for his invitation to let us swim to Savam and Dunava. Only Jovo Budak and Ante Pavelić did that. A colleague who spoke before me, if she said Jovo Bakic was respected, then, according to her standard, Pavelic and Mile Budak were both respected. I'd say they're criminals and Ustasha. The fact that a certain part of the opposition gives itself the right to apply or recommend Ustasha methods, that's not a reputation, that's a lack of reputation, that's even criminal intent. Another thing, courtesy. I am for decency, but let's see, did I go in with a guitar to hurt the intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia? You know who came in, I didn't. Did I chase at the benches of opposition colleagues or spit on someone? I'm not. It was done by DJB members who now call themselves the Modern Serbian Party and are pushing for courtesy, only a few years earlier to die for Sasa Radulovic. Why? Is it polite to take out of the budget money intended for the party's work, for so-called click? Now, that's the courtesy, that's the modern Serbia, which says Jovo Bakic is respected. Not that he's not respectable, Jovo Bakic is a simple hohstappler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62844	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62845	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Marinkovic, after all these violations of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to remind you of Article 27, you are the chairman, so you are in charge of taking care of the course of this session. So, as we've all seen colleagues and Mihaylovska and Macura, they came here at 4:00 and 10 minutes raising their rules of procedure, and they've practically fooled the public that they can't get to the word here. None of them signed up to be authorized for this topic, none of them signed up to be on the speaker list. They could have signed up. Minister Djordjevic is here with us all day and would answer their questions, I'm absolutely sure. So here we were discussing pensioners and then suddenly we saw two MPs entering parliament talking about Ustasha whores, and it's very obvious that this is an absolutely instructive attack on my colleague Mark Atlagic, because it happened after his presentation, because they attacked him in their reports on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, their reports had nothing to do with members, so I ask you to apply Article 27 to return to the topic of the agenda, which is, if nothing else, at least not for them two, at least for a million and 700 thousand pensioners very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62846	I agree with you completely to move on to the agenda. Lovely Mihaylovska is actually looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure now. Here you go. All I have to do is ask my colleague Kovacevic, does he want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? (No) Here you go, Mrs. Mihaylovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62847	I have to get back to you even though my colleague said that we will no longer advertise the Rules of Procedure and point to Article 109(1). - a reminder is given to a People's Messenger who directly addresses the other People's Messenger. The previous speaker mentioned the last name of my colleague and me, accusing us of coming to work at 16 hours. As you know very well, it's not true that the job of the MP is the only one sitting here in the hall listening to all sorts of nonsense and some of the recitations you're reciting here, but there are other jobs that can be done at the club, various approvals, preparation for other things, submission of the bill, so you don't know. We didn't get through the card here when we got to work and didn't sign up when we got here, only if you didn't keep track of it, I apologize. So please take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62848	Thank you, Mrs. Mihaylovska. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to come whenever you want, at nine and ten in the evening, and in the morning. Everyone has the right to express their position. Okay, let's get to the point. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you and I invite you to stay here and finish this debate as it is appropriate for our Parliament. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62849	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, as the government has announced when it comes to the achieved surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, part of that extra money is foreseen for the payment of pensioners. We have before us a decision on changes and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO, which provides 8.7 billion dinars for pensioners to pay off. This payment is actually a symbol of this country's recovery, especially the PIO Fund, which, you remember, a few years ago, was devastated. We are now discussing how much pension will be increased when every new increase is applied to an individual amount of pension, but we remember very well the moment when it was worried whether pensions would be paid at all or they were terribly later. Also, we remember that almost no business entity or work organisation was able to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. We also remember the closure of factories and layoffs, high unemployment, so citizens were able to dream only about the right to pay their pensions. Then the loans, the ones that they stole, raised up before the election to pay off the pensions, of course, with dizzy interest. It's all behind us, but not in so far past that we wouldn't remember it. The government led by the SNS has established a proposal to amend and supplement the PIO Act, which states that in the future, according to the Swiss model of pension, starting on 1 January 2020, it will be harmonised to a percentage of half of the percentage of consumer prices growth and half of the profit growth rate. The proposal will also be discussed here in the National Assembly, and then we will discuss it in more detail. You see, when the country's overall state of affairs stabilized, when the economy recovered, fiscal consolidation was completed and public finances were on healthy and firm feet, there is no doubt that both salaries and pensions would grow. The speed of that growth is proportional to the speed of the development of the Serbian economy. In addition, today's signing of the Agreement with the Eurasian Union, which will open Serbia to the 180 million people market, and the list of goods has been expanded and the quantities to be exported to the market has been increased. This will spread the market with every new country, which will join the Eurasian Economic Union. We will soon be able to export almost 100% of the products without paying customs duties to Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia. We need to increase production, ladies and gentlemen, the market is secure, this government has worked on it, the state has secured the market, now we have to produce what the market requires. I must say that according to the product range that we have obtained, which is sought on this market, it's about products like goat and cow cheese, in unlimited quantities, all kinds of fruit, brandy, also in unlimited quantities. So we get the opportunity to revive Serbian agriculture, to make young people interested and bring our villages back to life. Dear citizens, we will support this decision in the voting day and any next that will affect the improvement of the standard of living in Serbia, and above all the standard of our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62850	Thank you, Mrs. Kovacevic. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62851	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are talking about a proposal for a decision to agree on a decision to amend and supplement the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension Insurance Fund, and on a proposal from the Government, it was submitted to the Assembly for consideration. In 2012, by coming to the power of the SNS, we find empty registers everywhere, including in the Pension-Invalid Fund. With Alexander Vukic's 2014 arrival as prime minister, he is proposing difficult measures for financial consolidation. The citizens of Serbia recognized in the proposal by Alexander Vukic that this was the right way and showed this in 2016, giving him full support, his policy in the 2016 elections, as well as the SNS. Pensioners in those moments, despite little pensions, were the strength for Serbia to move forward at such speed. Thanks to these and such reforms in 5.11.2019, each pensioner will receive 5,000 dinars, and Serbia has 1,700,000 pensioners and that is not such a small amount, but thanks to today's budget deficits have a surplus, instead of a high public debt of more than 70%, today this percentage is about 50%. Every day new factories are opening up and the number of employees is growing, so 26% of the unemployed are found, today the percentage is 10.3%. Any employee whose personal income we have and payment of contributions to the PIO Fund is increased by the PIO Fund. Our finances are completely stable, our economy is growing, our average earnings are growing. I just wonder if Mr. Sutanovac has read or heard that in the coming days the average salary will be 500 euros, so perhaps he apologizes for his poor forecasts and findings. The better economic results and surplus in the budget of 1 January will go according to the Swiss model, which means on the basis of the average salary and inflation rate, today the amount from the budget allocated to expenditures and the PIO Fund is much smaller than the previous years, and thanks to the repression of the grey economy and the increased collection of contributions to the PIO Fund. In voting day, me and my colleagues will take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62852	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62853	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, MPs and citizens of Serbia, today it is easy to talk about budget rebalancing, as the government has achieved a surplus for the first nine months of 49.9 billion dinars, that almost 3.5%, and according to the IMF, growth in gross social product, 10.3% of unemployment in Serbia. However, let us remember in 2012, when the salary was paid without the payment of contributions in some public enterprises, that it continued to be the head of this country. The pensioners would have lost even their pension. At that time, as much as 40% of the budget was funded by the PIO Fund and thus pensioners received pensions. Today, the situation is much more favourable for pensioners. These 5,000, which will receive one-off assistance by November 5th, are only one kind of help, and since January 1st, pensions will be calculated according to the new Swiss model. However, this is not just an increase in living standards over money. Mr. Djordjevic's ministry is also working on opening new clubs for the elderly, then a reconstruction of the gerontological centres is being carried out and a project is being implemented to include all generations that would be at the service of the old generations. All this at the time of those yellow elite politicians, couldn't even imagine, let alone being implemented in action. Today in the afternoon we have heard from some MPs that pensioners are buried in bags, which is not true at all, because the PIO Fund, at the time of the death of any pensioner, allocates some funds and this way, this rebalance has even increased that amount from 15.54 to 24.8 billion dinars for funeral expenses. Everything they said today wasn't true, and all this was deliberate to obstruct the work of this government and the SNS. Our party president and our Serbian President, Aleksandar Vucic, as opposed to some as they only declare themselves leaders of some opposition parties for the sake of domestic savings and this Serbia leads to a better path, while some introduce some new sports disciplines such as throwing stones off their shoulders, as Bosko Obradovic announced he would fly stones, while threatening to slap some of our politicians, prominent officials. All I'm saying is that Serbs know the truth, that while our Alexander Vukic is at the head of this Serbia that they shouldn't worry about pensions and profits, and God forbid one of these opposition parties is at the head of this Serbia, they certainly wouldn't even see a dinar of their earned pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62854	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62855	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, of course, is the main objective of Alexander Vukic's policy and SNS's better quality of life and better standard of life for every citizen of our citizens, so there is no doubt that in the voting day we will support the decision on changes and additions of the financial plan of the Republic Fund PIO, which allows pensioners, which is 1,700,000.00 a one-time aid of 5,000 dinars. Of course, I have to say that the responsible policies of Alexander Vukic and economic growth have led to the first time in history here, at the House of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, discussing budget rebalancing for 2019, for the reason that the budget surplus has been achieved. In 2014, painful but only realistic and unique measures were taken to revive and recover our economy. Anyone who says there can be progress in a country without economy, without employees, without new factories, throws dust in the eyes, tells the people colorful lies and deceives the people. This was done by 2012, when one of the ministers of the yellow tycoon company, Djelic, said the global economic crisis was a chance for Serbia. It was a chance for Gilas, who was rich for 620m euros and for a tycoon group. For citizens, unfortunately, it was the hardest period, it was the period of robbery privatisation when the yellow Thai company robbed the state of Serbia by 100 billion euros. According to estimates of a US institute, the government of the yellow tycoon company for 12 years has been exported 51 billion euros. The yellow tycoon company hasn't been able to take money from the most endangered, and these are children, only through 150 million to build the Hetherland Castle. Of course, the castle wasn't absolutely built. There are only ruins left. Children mentally distracted in development have been robbed by 150 million. It was the same Đilas did in Belgrade with the usurpation of the most popular land in the Pionski city of Kosutnjak, where, to God, for the sake of building a living room for children, he actually built a Big Brother house and thus achieved the first millions of seconds of selling on TV. What I want to say is that Serbia today is an economically stable country, that wages are increasing and pensions will be increased. Payments will be raised in November and will be paid in December from 8% to 15%. Alexander Vukic is bringing in new investors. Serbia, for the second time, is among the world's best-placed countries by attracting foreign direct investment, and about Serbia, compared to its population, attracts foreign direct investment 12 times more. Of course that's what our President Alexander Vucic has to do with it, as well as the entire government. Thanks to the strategic and steel friendship of our president and president of the People's Republic of China Si Gjiping, a fast track of Belgrade-Budapest is being built. Following the visit of Russian Federation Prime Minister Medvedev, an agreement on rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Valjevo-Vrbnica railway was signed. In fact, it is part of the Belgrade-Bar railway to the Montenegrin border where it will no longer travel 10, 30, 50km per hour, but it will be a fast track that will have an average speed of 100km per hour. By the way, I have to point out that this government has renovated part of this bar track from Resnik to Valjev in 77 kilometers and trains are already on this section at a speed of 100 kilometers an hour. Why is infrastructure important? Infrastructure, which is also railways and waterways, and highways, are important because they breathe life into every place in Serbia, and in Subotica, and in Kosovo Mitrovica, and in the King, and in Cačak and Požeg. Life is breathed in every place thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, in the voting day, SNS has no dilemma, citizens and better quality of life are our first priority. That's why we'll support this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62856	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. Now the word has Stanija Kompirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62857	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is on the agenda of the decision to give consent to the Decision on the amendments and additions of the Republic PIO Fund for 2019, which will allow our pensioners of all categories to receive financial assistance of 5,000 dinars once. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to use the surplus in the state register by improving our pensioners' living conditions. What is important for the citizens of the Republic to know that this one-time check is paid out of real resources, from savings made thanks to the responsible, economic policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has conducted in previous years. I will remind the citizens that when the SNS took over the country's leadership, Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy and that regular pension payments were at stake for our pensioners. Following the difficult fiscal consolidation measures most affected by our pensioners, the state is now in a position to thank each other in this way because they have borne the burden of fiscal consolidation. That the financial situation in the country is getting better and the situation in the Republic Fund of PIO as one of the most significant institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which cares for 1,700,000 pensioners. According to official data, at the end of 2018, even 71.7% of the total incomes of the Republic Fund PIO account for the original revenues charged from the contribution, which amounted to 51.1% in 2012. In 2018, the grant from the budget was 27.9% and in 2012 it was 48.2%. All these facts lead to the conclusion that pension payments are stable, based on a realistic basis, and that our oldest citizens don't have to worry. The good work of the ministry, the government and the management of the PIO Fund will continue and pensions will increase from real income, as has been done with the payment of 5,000 dinars, which is only the beginning of a continuous improvement in pensioner's position, whose pensions will be higher as of January 1st, and this is a sign that we live better and safer in this country. In voting day, I will support this decision, as well as my fellow MPs, and I will wish the pensioners in good health with their families to benefit from this monetary compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62858	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to briefly join my fellow MPs who have already clearly expressed their support for the proposal we are discussing, a proposal that concerns pensioners directly in the Republic of Serbia, which is black on the white of one good news. So, the good news is every time we're in a position to make extra effort and to financially empower anyone in our country. Of course, when it comes to pensioners, each of us is more important than when we talk about other categories of population. Of course, every increase, even when it comes to salary increases that we've talked about recently, these increases that are so significant that they measure by a percentage of eight, nine, ten, twelve, and even fifteen percent for different categories of employees, are a fantastic topic for Serbia. We are certainly particularly concerned about our pensioners, and we are always very pleased to announce publicly when we are able to adopt a new additional measure, a good measure that will make their life something better. When we talked about increasing pensions on several occasions in the last two or three years, every time we took care of how much this means for one, how much for the second category of pensioners, depending on the level of their incomes, and somehow the second plan falls is the fact that perhaps the most important thing in the whole story, that the moment we started dealing with the problem of fiscal consolidation in Serbia, we said publicly -- our goal is not to be something at a level of a certain year, but our goal is to overcome all the results we found or achieved ourselves in the meantime. Our goal is to reach levels of income that are better and higher than all those we have talked about, whether we who have proposed certain measures, or those who have criticised these measures. It can't fall into another plan of the fact that we really did it. We have come to the fact that pensions in Serbia for all pensioners are more than they have ever been before, so even before we adopted a temporary pension-level scheme in 2014. For over 60% of pensioners, there was never any reduction. So, it's just the year-to-year hikes according to how strong the state was at that moment, and today for all categories of pensioners, we can only be satisfied when I say it, and in that I say the truth, that these receipts are bigger than ever before. With these measures we are also discussing at this session, but also at sessions that are certainly coming very quickly, we are talking about an additional increase in this plus that Serbia today is able to provide. And when it comes to programmes of one-off support of several thousand dinars for each pensioner, but also for permanent increases of several percent, well, at one point percent or two, in the next five or six, the re-evaluation is five and a half since January. When all that is added together, ladies and gentlemen, it feels and is our goal, of course, not to stop at any moment, but to always ask that we always take every opportunity to do something like that again, and it will certainly be. Thanks to the fact that we've managed to cure a catastrophic situation in state finance, we're implementing these programs today. Thanks to this, we will certainly continue to realize them in the future. Because look what Serbia has done, Serbia has not only managed to stop that catastrophic sunflower it has faced in terms of completely devastated, ruined public finances, Serbia has managed to reverse the whole process. Serbia has managed to turn into a country that is able to compete with other countries in the region when it comes to attracting investment and even becoming, so let's say, a small champion in this part of the continent, that today, with success, attracts more foreign direct investment than everyone else in the environment combined. All the others to put on one side, so, as someone has noticed today, to add Croatia, one EU member to them, is again easier than the one on which only the Republic of Serbia, which is pulling, is not exaggerating anything, but close to four billion euros in investment at an annual level. Imagine that kind of fantastic result that today in Serbia is reality, not any other plan, and compare it with that of Serbia before 2014 when Aleksandar Vucic became Serbian Prime Minister, and above all those measures that we have successfully implemented all together. So, Serbia today not only has good indicators and not only has its public debt reduced by a percentage, and today it is close to 50% compared to GDP, and compare it to 77-78 close to 80%. Serbia has not only reduced the number of unemployed in this country, compare how many today, close to 10% with the previous 25% or 26%. Serbia has managed to compete with itself in this kind of good result. And when we count new companies in this country in the last few years alone, and whether it's 150 or 200, how a controversy opened today, well, whatever it is closer to official and precise data is a fantastic result and it can't affect that level of satisfaction that we have to feel when we look at the period behind us and the work that we've done. Official statistics say hundreds of thousands of people are counting newly employed in the Republic of Serbia. So when that's the case, then it's no wonder that more than taxes, more than contributions are paid in the government's register, which is why we're not talking about a budget that needs to be cleaned up, and sometimes that's all that could be imagined, the only way that was to take care of state finances and plan. Today we are talking for the third year in a row about the surplus, about that Serbia is more successful than Serbia itself predicted and projected when it planned its annual budget and its case at 365 days, and you know that we are always stricter, self-sustaining, when we make these kinds of plans, and we say we will project the budget so that we can predict all possible bad factors and that it can endure at a level of one year, not to waste too much money, and then I show that we can be more successful than that. For the third year in a row, we were talking about a fantastic surplus, a surplus that is measured by tens of billions of dinars. So thanks to this kind of good results, seriousness, responsibility, and clear evidence that Serbia today is driven by dedicated people who are capable of choosing such a result, we are able to finance both these salary increases and these pension increases and various one-time programmes, but also what is long-term important and most important which is permanent, which is certain and that no one will be able to endanger. Retirement increases in Serbia today do not burden the state budget. The increases in pensions in Serbia today have nothing to do with the populist propaganda that was once visited by the various high-ranking officials of the former regimes, if by name, both in Dragan Dilas, and in Boris Tadic, and in Vuk Jeremic, and in Borko Stefanovic, who at that time will be co-financed spiritually and who are today their primary assistants and first assistants in everything they do. Then, the IMF disgusted by the situation in our finances said: "People, don't do this. Don't promise promises you can't finance. You guys are gonna put the whole country at risk with that. People, it's not that you're not going to do anything and you're not going to increase anything, but you're going to bring in these people whose votes you're trying to buy in a situation where they don't have any receipts tomorrow, that pensions are not 90% or 80% compared to something promised, but that they're zero." They wouldn't listen. They thought, as they think today, that they are the smartest people in the world, that they know best, that they have driven the IMF away, and that Serbia really has to choose the day when it will tell citizens that we can no longer finance anything in this country. We're broke, pensions are from that date and that date is zero. These are the initial conditions that Alexander Vucic and SNS and our coalition partners with whom we have taken care of this country together. We were able to change that and turn it around and get into a situation where no one asks a question tomorrow or in a year, because there's no need for that, where you're going to finance, how you're going to hold on to the increase. Serbia can bear it today and Serbia is able today to improve the situation further, so tomorrow it can show that it can also work with new increases and wages and pensions without any problems. Of course, in order for that to be possible, several preconditions must be met. The first is certainly to continue to be successful in implementing our economic policy, to continue to attract foreign investors with great success, to continue to stimulate export programmes in this country and to have indicators for this perspective are the data we are discussing today. The fact that in a few of the most dynamic branches like the IT sector, we each year get a little more of the new space that we use with success, so we increase exports. This also tells the fact that we have talked about different markets and the EU countries' markets, but also on the Euro-Asian Union countries' market we can export more thanks to the wise policy, thanks to the rating, i.e. the credibility which has been voted primarily by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Serbia by Alexander Vucic himself, but of course by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today we say with great pride, there are certain products for which Serbia is a world champion. These frameworks also measure the market belonging to the Russian Federation, but also some products for which we are world champion when it comes to exporting to the EU countries. We say, that if we continue with that kind of capable, smart, well thought-out policy, we can go on in other places only with successes. We're talking about markets like one giant China or something closer to us, but certainly for our big Turkey standards, even on this third and fourth case, we're just opening up a new space because we're running this policy. There were words about exports, I think, agricultural products, which are some basics, which are some that represent a certain kind of finer product. They mentioned some different agricultural cultures, mentioned meat exports. Have we just, say, managed to obtain agreements for the export of meat to both China and Turkey such as no one in the region? We did, one more time. When we talk about what we're doing with our friends in the world, whether or not it's a fact that thanks to that kind of wise policy, we're developing with these friends today the vital infrastructure of Serbia, we're also doing highways, new corridors, but we're also working on rail corridors. Here's the news from, I think, yesterday, the composition that was sent from the NK brought in what would serve us to build a fast track in Serbia, the kind of rail transport that we used to watch on movies. You know, turn on some of the channels from cable TV and watch over there somewhere in China, someone travels at speeds that are hundreds of miles per hour. You can't believe your eyes because by 2012 you knew – 30 kilometers per hour, it's a fantastic speed of driving on our tracks here. You know, you don't find anything funny or weird when someone tells you – you know, in 2012, you're taking the train slower than 100 years earlier in that same Serbia. Look how much the reality has changed, how much better this reality is for our citizens today. There is no doubt, we will build these high-speed railways and connect Serbia and the centres in the central part of Europe, but we will also finish the corridors that connect our country and the south of the continent, the southwest of the Balkan Peninsula and the east. We expect that there will also be these kinds of results that we will be very pleased to talk about together and when it comes to gas transport infrastructure. It is Serbia in 2019, 2020, and it is Serbia with success in implementing the policy of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. Of course, economic development is important, some will say the most important, but it is not the only question and whether it is the most important, because it would not be possible, with all the effort and all the knowledge that has been put in place that one other condition is not satisfied. This second condition is: peace and stability. Peace and stability are absolutely necessary that any success in the economy was possible at all. In a society that is not satisfied with the terms of peace and stability, no one will invest. It's free and effort and effort, and our ability to find good reasons to offer different partners from the world to come to us here and to work with us something good and smart if there is no peace and stability. That is why it is of first-rate importance for Serbia to understand this need. There's no luck, but absolutely no happiness, and it doesn't matter what it's called, what the government does at a certain point, if we destroy our own house, if we let them do to us as standards of behavior in politics, which is certainly these so-called. The alliances of tycoon and Latvians, Gilas, his Dvora, his Vuk Jeremic, the remains of DS Restols, impose that it is normal to haunt people in the streets, impose that normal people are obsessed in front of houses where they live with their families, as they have done several times to Goran Vesic or to wind up people in the parking lots, trying to lynch them, to force us that it is normal for someone in 2019 to show that they look up to Nazism from the 30s. They do that, and they do nothing but do it, and they order it, and they don't order anything but that when books fall on Nazi fires. If we accept that this is normal, then we can freely say goodbye to peace and stability in this society. It's not just about Serbia. There's not a single country in this white world that could work that way, but that works even normally. That's all, just not normal. There are no standards that need to be handled by motor saws, which, after forced entry into public service, enter with broken glass, destroyed inventory and damaged cars, with the intimidation of ordinary journalists, no one guilty, who sits on the board and does their job, show us where the studio is so we don't have to judge us here right now. There's nothing good and nothing smart about hangings being threatened by those you consider to be political enemies. You are unable to accept them as opponents and competitors in some normal political game that is a common thing in a democratic society. There's no luck in their offer to choose who's going to shoot the forehead and who's going to hang, and what's hanging, it's being offered to choose where he's going to hang from. These are things that, once again, no country in the world could stand without being normal. Then there is no life, if you will, let alone any business, GDP increase, progress or any other fifth. Serbia understands that very well. The indicator that Serbia understands this very well is, see what public opinion research says. The fact that those people who reached out to such methods, who served such a political offer to Serbian citizens, recorded only a constant loss of any support. They've started their gatherings and their new charge of power and the state register with, it's estimated, about 17% support. Do you know how long they're at today? Well, certainly one-digitally, and some will tell you the question of whether far from the limit of censorship. They did it all, and they did it all as a fantastic result to make, and the geniuses, therefore, are more than half their own support just because they did it, just because they didn't think about anything normal, decent man in Serbia and how he's going to experience it all. So you can't fool the people. You cannot serve the people their destruction and the destruction of all that is important to those people as something good and beautiful. There is nothing good or beautiful, except for those people personally, for tycoons, used, like Dragan Gilas, to direct hundreds of millions of euros to their own companies, and to end up with, as it were, net profits, which are again in a hundred million euros, for tycoons used to go out on a political scene rich in some thousands of euros, because it literally looked like the value of what they own and what they reported, thousands of euros were measured, and to leave their functions, all the best and most sounding functions in the country, with the property they again reported, which is measured by tens of millions of euros. Pay attention, it's only about what they report, tens of millions of euros. And how much of what they won't report? How much of what only they know where it ended? Well, we just have to ask ourselves. For both of them and such, if you know that the state has always been seen as prey, and the cash register as something that belongs to them, God has given them, maybe there's luck in winding up people in the streets, destroying the streets, physically eliminating political opponents, because they know they're not interested in Serbia, democracy, or any institution, Parliament or any fifth choice, there's no difference. Their pocket is what they care about. Their accounts, foreign exchange accounts, as a rule, are the only things sacred and important to them. That is why everyone should understand, in that they offer no happiness to anyone in Serbia except themselves, except for them personally. Serbia, because it understands it so well, has no intention of giving these and such people any support. Serbia has clearly defined itself for peace, for stability, for economic progress, for new jobs, for new salary increases, for new pension increases, but on a realistic basis so that no one ever questions them. Serbia has defined itself for this infrastructure that we are building today, for new corridors, for new highways, new railway hubs and directions that we once could not imagine. Serbia has defined itself as building friendly bridges everywhere in the world, both with EU countries and the Russian Federation and with the People's Republic of China and regional forces such as Turkey, but also with our traditional friends from Latin America, across Africa, to the farthest parts of Asia. Serbia has defined itself as a country of success, a country that builds its future. Serbia has defined itself for life. That's why Serbia says absolutely that Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62860	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62861	Thank you. We recently discussed and the Assembly adopted budget rebalancing. It is, I must admit, a unique experience after three and a half years of my stay in the Assembly, the first and only budget rebalance this assembly has discussed. Unfortunately, we haven't had a chance to listen to the budget rebalancing debate in years, even though there was a need for the same. What my colleagues and SMS spoke of, above all, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Vladimir Djuric, during the debate, pointed out that they disagreed with how the government of the Republic of Serbia even deployed the surplus money from time to time. And we think that there are no well-defined priorities in which practically the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests money from the budget of all citizens. We pointed to this not only when there was a debate on budget rebalancing recently. This is what we talked about when there was a debate on the budget that was adopted for 2019. In his opening presentation of colleagues from the SPDS Parliament Club, it seems to me, Professor. Mijatovic suggested that Serbia, or that there are 1,700,000 pensioners in Serbia, would be entitled to compensation of 5,000 dinars, i.e. the right to one-time assistance. What I would like to point out today as a problem in Serbia is that it seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is paying particular attention to these most vulnerable groups, but also very much neglecting other endangered groups that are virtually negligent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm talking about 200,000 students in Serbia who are absolutely not devoted to any single budget rebalancing order, not a single sentence. No one has bothered to say that students in Serbia deserve some support from the government of the Republic of Serbia so that we do not get into a situation where young people leave us right after college. There are no words aimed at supporting 60,000 of those births that practically appear every year in the state of Serbia. So we don't have a single word that appears in the rebalancing of this budget, from which decisions like this eventually arise, which draw attention to the fact that someone will pay attention to the number of births. Why am I talking about this data and I'm not talking about 1.7 million pensioners? Because somewhere according to research that I've had insights, and they date somewhere from, say, April, this year, they say that more than 2/3 of the citizens are most concerned about it, and the biggest fear is that people are leaving this country, among them leaving young people, leaving families, leaving all those who have the chance to leave. We heard just a few days ago, even from Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, that she was very pleased that more than 600 babies were born in Serbia, but that was the average at the level of the previous year. I need to point out one more manipulation that's happening with this data. I hope Minister Djordjevic listens very carefully, because of him, unfortunately, we listen a little to the Law on Financial Support with the children. We're mostly listening from a minister who's not invited to discuss this matter. So in Serbia 1,000 babies are born a year less, which means that these families have not decided not to give birth to children ever again and have given up spreading their families, but that these children are born elsewhere on the planet. Yes, it is possible that in Serbia over 600 babies were born more in Serbia last year than in the previous year, but this does not mean that Serbia is not left by young families and that its offspring are not based or spreading their families elsewhere on the planet. As a representative of the Modern Serbian Party, I would point out, however, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should take care of what is not at all taken into account at this time, and this is the outflow of young people and leaving the country. As for the separation of money at the level of the Republic of Serbia, we have nothing against what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made this decision recently adopted and referred to the assembly procedure, we have nothing against which pensioners in Serbia will receive the support of 5,000 dinars and we really believe that this support is necessary. However, had there been political will, above all, pensioners in Serbia, the 1.7 million, among which not all were damaged by the application of a bad law that was abolished in 2018, would not have come into a situation to receive what we, freely today, can call a charity. I'm just going to give you one example of how the state is crumbling and how it's misdirecting money. So in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the biggest increase within the budget was the work of the Ministry of Defence and the work of the Ministry of Defence. So the biggest increase was focused on the work of these two ministries, and that is precisely on the burden of the most endangered social categories. This was all, of course, supported by some rhetoric that was present in public, tabloid titles and statements by our representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including the president himself. Encouraged by the fact that today can be heard exclusively and only about how we strengthen and strengthen forces in the area of arms, I am now asking you – whether the pensioner who comes to the register with his reduced incomes, completely demoted, when he is thinking about buying yogurt or cream, must return, for example, the yogurt at the register and say all excited – yes, I am doing this because the state has acquired S-400, or as these models or vests are already called. So, the war-hospital atmosphere and the warming of the bad atmosphere in the regional relations of the Republic of Serbia with all other countries that our neighbours, above all, influence that the most vulnerable categories of our population eventually receive charity. I will also remind you, and I think that before me, colleagues in their discussions reminded me that even the Fiscal Council, as an independent institution, seemed to me, a very, very respected institution and the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, once again, when adopting the budget rebalancing, that this was not the best measure and that they, as the first sentence in their report, then said that financial assistance to 5,000 dinar pensioners was not a good measure of social policy. There's also a series of examples why this isn't good. One of them seems to me, perhaps the most critical, I think I should read it here. About 100,000 old people in Serbia are estimated to have no pension compensation, and they belong to the group of socially most vulnerable residents, and are now not qualified for the planned social assistance. So we're still in this group of pensioners, the ones who are the most vulnerable, not helping. Also, it is said -- a poor practice of populist social policy management through pension payments in Serbia lasts for many years. So we're not putting this on the line just for you, Minister Djordjevic. There were other ministers who managed the budget the same way. So we think that these short-term measures, which, from time to time, are taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are not only in these last seven years, but as they are wanted, because they are not ready for a serious review of the state. This has been going on for many years, and we think that this practice simply needs to be interrupted. There is a uncertainty in how we have even come to the fact that all pensioners in Serbia should receive exactly 5,000 dinars of this aid. There are some pensioners who receive very small amounts of their pensions and perhaps 5,000 dinars are not enough for them to, say, come out of some current family crisis. There are pensioners who may have more income and who do not absolutely need these 5,000 dinars. We go into one, I'm free to quote, a populist practice of budget management. I was quoting the Fiscal Council. The modern Serbian party has no objection to helping, if there is room in the budget, threatened categories, but we think this can do much better than it does today. In the first place, why, for example, the Ministry of Labour, the Social Affairs, I'm sure you didn't get that information now that we had a surplus in the budget and that you were surprised by that information, could have predicted that this would happen... We could have asked our pensioners -- where do you think this extra money could be directed? You know, I've been campaigning for a very long time against a bad law that was in effect from 2014 to 2018 with the aim of making up for pensioners who suffered the greatest burden in the period when they were explained that it was necessary to help their country, practically on that one, causing some patriotic feelings with them. I'm sure any pensioner in Serbia today would be interested, asking him -- would you separate the money that has appeared as an surplus in the budget and invested in young people in Serbia, not to leave here, or would you still agree to receive these 5,000 dinars as one-off aid, unequivocally I think that their answer, precisely for patriotic reasons, would be such that they would want to direct this support to young people and those who decide to leave our country. So, in the short term, this is a good measure. In the long run, this doesn't solve the question of pensioners. A modern Serbia party and my colleague Vladimir Djuric submitted a bill last year to the assembly procedure on how to compensate the pensioners. We think it is a long-term measure that can be applied, so that our pensioners in Serbia live more dignity than they do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62862	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62863	It's your fault, Mr. Marinkovic, probably. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one big absurd in our legislation is that we blindly adopt what comes from the EU in the so-called harmonisation process, acts of European countries, acts that come to us from Brussels that are often translated from English, which of course are not made to match our country and our society, but are made for some European countries, and then we have this paradox that what we are talking about today and this famous Swiss formula is not the most popular solution in the EU. How's that? The first time something could be good that comes from the EU, we are now doing the opposite of what was practice in the National Assembly of Serbia. Therefore, the harmonisation of pensions in line with inflation and profit growth, and the solution that the largest EU countries Italy, France, Spain and Austria are completely different. For example, harmonising exactly what we were talking about, and that's price growth and profit growth, because inflation can be a great gymnastics given that it's predicted. That's what the National Bank predicts, no one controls it. It is subject to manipulation, and the right to measure would be the government's responsibility for those pensioners in Serbia harmonising with price growth and profit growth. Is there anything more responsible that the government can do and why this particular solution? Why is this solution acceptable to Serbia? That's what we were talking about. On the other hand, we know very little about the economic situation in Serbia, about the predictability of investing money in Serbia from the budget, about taxpayers' money, because we have witnessed for these seven years that very often every finance minister, now Sinisa Mali, finds out at press conferences for the President of the Republic where money will be spent and where to invest. So there's been a solution now. For example, Alexander Vukic thought at one point that it was just 5,000 dinars of the figure to be assigned to every pensioner, he announced it, and then it was the government's task and the congregation's majority to make it possible, to put it, i.e. implement the congregation procedure in a way that would allow it to be as Vucic said. It is neither transparent nor predictable, and what ambience does it create in Serbia, and why exactly 5,000 dinars? We've had a recent increase in toll prices, I think 12%. How did we get to that, for example, 12 percent? Why 12%? Who explained that? It's nobody. Who explained why this year, and it is a coincidence that pensions have not increased in this year, this one-time aid is granted to pensioners. On the other hand, these pensioners are not such a homogeneous category. There are more than 100,000 pensioners in Serbia, it seems to me that the official figure is 105,000, with pensions of about 10,000 dinars or less than 100 euros, and 300,000 to 14,000 dinars. Instead of making some difference between these most endangered pensioners and those who have 70,000, 80,000 and more thousands of dinars, there are pensions more than 100,000, all are given the same. Does it mean the one who has 10,000 dinars to get that one-time help or the one who has 90,000 dinar pensions? He won't even feel that 5,000 dinars when he gets it. How it came to this idea, and especially cannot some consistency and continuity be established in the policy and the SNS programme, given that we have heard of pension cuts as to the extreme, when everything is exhausted, when we can't do anything else and we've been given firm convictions that it won't happen in Serbia. Then Aleksandar Vukic, who said at the Pinky Hall in Zemun, not to give up on pensioners, that he would not allow pensions to be reduced, that it is better to be taken off our backs, is thought of by officials in Serbia, rather than to be touched by pensioners. After five months, when the government was formed in 2014, we saw that pensions were still reduced. What does that tell us? What kind of change is it then with the Democratic Party regime that was in Serbia until 2012. How is that different from the 1,000-euro promise of actions? Is there a difference? It doesn't exist. The money for the pensioners should probably be the priority of raising pensions, and when pensions were reduced, they went of course step-by-step compared to pension levels, and that took time. It happened five years ago. Now if, of course, I'm not talking about the right acquired, it's not the kind of setup the government wants to present to Serbia as if it's paying off that it's actually an act of giving power in Serbia, that the pensioners didn't do it, that they didn't do it, that they didn't do it, that they didn't earn that pension, but that the government was giving it to someone of their own free will, and it had nothing to do with the actual user. What will happen if some pensioners are exhausted from all court cases in Serbia and when they address the European Court of Human Rights, and given that Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe and signatories of the European Convention on Human Rights, what will happen when such a verdict is reached in Strasbourg and it needs that money to be returned? Where will that money be found and it doesn't matter what not all pensioners might want to ask for it. Only one is enough. That'll apply to everything later. How many pensioners have passed away from 2014 to 2019? What about their pensions? Then after an increase in pensions mostly in history, and we have since 2012, or we hear something happen in Serbia for the first time in history or for the best in history. There are no other results here. Just looking at the media, only listening to politicians in power can we really conclude that we live in some other country, so that's how we talk about the Swiss model here. When we can have bigger growth than Germany, why can't we have more pensions than Switzerland? It's enough to say that, to talk about it, and what's in reality, it has nothing to do with life. Where do you find the money for these things? First, we should see where the money in Serbia is spent from the budget. We had information, for example. that Sinisa Mali said the other day – 4.4 billion dinars were allocated from 2014 to 2019 for "Red Star" and "Partizan"? Why 4.4 billion and based on just these two sports clubs? What's the interest of the state to separate this money from those two sports clubs that are bottomless holes? Where's the explanation? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 2000 we've had some promotions of our kind from World Bank experts, the IMF, other major financial institutions of the world. We also had Miroljub Labus, and Bozidar Djelic and Mladjan Dinkic, and then when the advances came here, they advertised some Lazar Krstic, an economic genius, an expert who only stayed here for a few months, because that genius wanted to pay 30% here and that in all public enterprises, as many percent of the employees were fired, and here he was announced as the savior of our economy and the fallen economy. We had Saša Radulovic chosen by the SNS as Minister of Industry, we saw how it went. And we also announced great things, that they would happen with that choice. Serbia's budget is funded by a number of Western NGOs, which act openly against Serbia. So the state of Serbia is funding certain NGOs that, despite funding from abroad, are being managed from abroad, and they are then expanding the mantras here as was independent Kosovo, that genocide and other things took place in Srebrenica. They organise the Mirdita Festival in Belgrade, the promotion of Kosovo culture, the Women in Black, performances related to the alleged genocide in Srebrenica and other things. No one likes it, no one supports it, but that's why Serbia pays through the budget for each year. Why, and given that, of course, among the favourite SNS targets is this Soros and these NGOs, and then Serbia pays them. The Serbian Progressive Party has promised before 2012 -- if it comes to power to reduce the number of pointless agencies in which people are employed through party ties, where people who work there do not have to come to work, have astronomical salaries, agencies that have no jurisdiction, do nothing and serve only to host party personnel. They promised to re-examine who was in the board of directors and supervisors, how much this was paid from the budget, and after that we saw absolutely complete continuity with DS authorities, only personal roles were replaced. They're no longer yellow, now they're advanced, and the system is absolutely the same. They promised to reduce total bureaucracy in Serbia by introducing the so-called Quick Answer Office, and after the election they forgot the promise. What should be the priority of the Serbian government, as regards wages and pensions in Serbia, must be equalising minimum wages and minimum pensions with the amount of the consumer basket. That's about 37,000 dinars. The responsible government would make a plan to reduce as much as possible these pointless budget payments and to work on minimum wages and minimum pensions approaching the consumer basket, not to make up Swiss models and compare Serbia with the Swiss and German standards and to boast that we are better than Germany. What Milorad Mircic would say, if we are champions here in the region, imagine only living in these other countries, and we have repeatedly heard that we are leaders not only in the Western Balkans, not only of EU candidate countries, but also of other EU countries by various parameters. But here is only neighbouring Croatia, in Croatia a recently introduced pension and for those who have never worked, just over 100 euros. The average pension of 23,000 dinars in Serbia, slightly less than 200 euros, is around 370 euros in Croatia. What are we champions for, then? If we are better than the worst countries in Europe, then we are champions, and that can't be compared to anyone and that has nothing to do with real life in Serbia, it doesn't matter. What we also had the opportunity to hear, is that now since 2012 or 2014, or when it has happened, when we have turned to some other countries of the world, and now they respect us, they respect us, and we have then joined some other markets and cooperation with some other countries and that this is now success and so on, it cannot be sustainable, because Serbia cannot be in two chairs. We can't co-operate and develop the best relations with China and Russia, and at the same time we're going. We continue the process of Eurointegration and are committed to EU membership. One doesn't go with the other. First of all, what we need in the process of Eurointegration to bring foreign policy into line with EU policy, which means imposing sanctions on Russia. Then there's no co-operation on military matters, no economics, no other. Pressure is from the EU to limit Serbia's co-operation with China. This cannot be developed without going to the EU at the same time. That's impossible. EU policy is a double-arshin policy. This means that the EU is absolutely against going through the Balkan countries so-called. Turkish Stream or South Stream, but that's why the EU has nothing against North Stream 2. It shows us what they think of us and it shows us what we will be in even if in about 50 or 100 years or at any time, we enter the EU. We are the European periphery in their eyes. We are a European gardener, we serve here as a cheap workforce, in perspective we can serve as a parking lot for migrants, as an experimental polygon and everything else. We can never be an equal member of the EU, even if there were no political pressure for Serbia to give up KIM to continue negotiations on that membership. That's why it takes time, until everything is ruined, to turn to co-operation for the Euro-Asian Economic Union, because it's the future. There are world and financial most powerful countries in the world, with the Brix countries gathering the richest and largest countries in the world of Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa. The future of the economy will not be in Western Europe, but will be in Asia, the world economy. The best thing to do is to accept this reality as soon as possible. If we do not do so, if we continue with European integration, then we will be a country that is not fully sovereign, with the status of the colony, where every decision regarding the economy, as far as social policy, as far as anything else is concerned, is made exclusively by the IMF, the World Bank and others. They should prescribe both salaries and pensions and employment and utility prices and everything else. Serbia should not be prepared to do so, should not accept it and should turn to co-operation with traditional friends as soon as possible, with historical allies, to turn, instead of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for example. The Fund of Ways and Silks and to think about its future and better life for its citizens, and if it just compares that maybe those who came before the advances were worse than them and that's enough, it won't take us anywhere. By calling things Swiss or German just to make it sound better, nothing will change in Serbia, and it will remain such a situation without any possibility of development and without any perspective. We can't co-operate and develop the best relations with China and Russia, and at the same time we're going. We continue the process of Eurointegration and are committed to EU membership. One doesn't go with the other. First of all, what we need in the process of Eurointegration to bring foreign policy into line with EU policy, which means imposing sanctions on Russia. Then there's no co-operation on military matters, no economics, no other. Pressure is from the EU to limit Serbia's co-operation with China. This cannot be developed without going to the EU at the same time. That's impossible. EU policy is a double-arshin policy. This means that the EU is absolutely against going through the Balkan countries so-called. Turkish Stream or South Stream, but that's why the EU has nothing against North Stream 2. It shows us what they think of us and it shows us what we will be in even if in about 50 or 100 years or at any time, we enter the EU. We are the European periphery in their eyes. We are a European gardener, we serve here as a cheap workforce, in perspective we can serve as a parking lot for migrants, as an experimental polygon and everything else. We can never be an equal member of the EU, even if there were no political pressure for Serbia to give up KIM to continue negotiations on that membership. That's why it takes time, until everything is ruined, to turn to co-operation for the Euro-economic union, because it's the future. There are world and financial most powerful countries in the world, with the Brix countries gathering the richest and largest countries in the world of Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa. The future of the economy will not be in Western Europe, but will be in Asia, the world economy. The best thing to do is to accept this reality as soon as possible. If we do not do so, if we continue with European integration, then we will be a country that is not fully sovereign, with the status of the colony, where every decision regarding the economy, as far as social policy, as far as anything else is concerned, is made exclusively by the IMF, the World Bank and others. They should prescribe both salaries and pensions and employment and utility prices and everything else. Serbia should not be prepared to do so, should not accept it and should turn to co-operation with traditional friends as soon as possible, with historical allies, to turn, instead of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for example. The Fund of Ways and Silks and to think about its future and better life for its citizens, and if it just compares that maybe those who came before the advances were worse than them and that's enough, it won't take us anywhere. By calling things Swiss or German just to make it sound better, nothing will change in Serbia, and it will remain such a situation without any possibility of development and without any perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62864	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62865	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want the pensioners to have 1,000 euros. Why not 1,000 euros? Recently, a referendum was held in Switzerland a few years ago. The question was, do you want to get out of work, that everyone whether they were a worker, a pensioner, a rich man, a poor man, etc. gets 2,500 euros a month? Seventy-eight percent of the Swiss said no, because they were aware that it would involve them in the economic crisis. So, if the population regardless of gender, age, etc. share more money than you've earned, you're in an economic crisis that's hard to get out of. Pensioners really should have 1,000 euros. Why am I rooting for pensioners, workers, peasants and housewives? It's a state-of-the-art part of the people, it's not these unfortunates from the circle of the Tram Two, those who boycott the work, take the wages of 100,000. They take the salaries of 100,000, take something besides pay like Bastic, and then walk around with a bunch of euros, and they usually bring it abroad and spend it there. Pensioners would spend it all here, so it would automatically go back 20% to the budget. But they know, and that's why they vote, that money, money behind which is not seriously produced service, that it can't bring good to the state, and that's why they said that this little pension and a little higher pension, that it's worth saving so that the state would stand on its feet, because they knew that money had to be earned. Gross domestic product is one pastry. During the yellows, that cake was poor, and I'll explain how much it was a poor cake. They were called 13% of GDP, and the average pension was 193 euros. Now 10.2% is out, but pensions are 228 euros on average. So, the size of the GDP of the money we make, what we have to earn, to mix, to put the yeast, to bake, to make a little bigger cake, and then the 10% that belongs to the pensioners is going to be 1,000 euros, but when we make a cake that can split 1,000 euros. I've been listening to a lot of people here today and I've been listening to one unworker, who's sweating, he's not, the nail didn't fit into the wall, but to die for high pensions. Probably his will be high, but the opportunity for bigger pensions is work, we in our youth, says Confucius, in your youth you must cut off the stick you will rely on at age. What's the problem? The problem is that our pensioners used to be worthy and honest people, who worked for years, singled out, who cut off that stick that they were supposed to rely on at age, which they stole, which the former regime's party cut up that stick and no longer had a healthy grip on which they can rely at age. That's why I'm asking you to make money. I demand that peasant pensions be bigger, far bigger. Today, peasant pensions are less than social aid. A pensioner has to set something aside, but I have to admit, 80% of the money farmers get for such a small pension, only 20% of the budget is collected from farmers. Why? Because debts are big. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture to find a way to make debts to PIO farmers, who have already reached perhaps 200 billion dinars and health insurance debts, which have reached nearly 100 billion dinars, to resolve the issue of these debts. Because the number of insurance companies falls and incomes in the PIO fund from farmers' insurance companies falls, because they can't get rid of debts and it's become immaterial to pay for it. If welfare is bigger than retirement, even if they have debts, they experience that they should not be paid. Many of them are selling the country, counting on money to exercise their right to social assistance, because it can be achieved 65 years ago, 60 years ago, in 55, in 50. That's why these peasant pensions have to be raised. But we have to earn all our pensions first. It's up to young people to earn those pensions, that's generation solidarity. Our pensioners didn't deserve the money to be printed and to be paid out of their pension loans, but from what they earned. Money must first be due to production and services, then to be shared. You can't drink water from an empty glass, you can't eat from an empty plate. It's got to be earned, and when it's done, it's split. Let's not forget the people who are old, who deserve to live the life of a decent man. Everyone has the right to a dignified age and we have to make some kind of reform in PIO insurance. We're touching, he says - the state took pensions, why they're lying. When pensions are donated, far less than in 2012, but bigger in euros, they come from the state budget. How did we get it to pensioners when we touched them from the budget of that pension with 173? It used to be 273 and it wasn't enough. These 173 billion show that every pension we touch annually with 100,000 dinars, but earned by the GDP we created. That's why we have to fight. Let that unemployed guy who's been talking all day about how he needs to retire, you stole, you have to touch more, it's got to be this much. What if they're not earned? What if we don't have production? How can we drink water out of an empty glass? How can we share a cake from an empty pot? We young people need to earn it, not only here in the Assembly, but we need to earn services, transfer knowledge, we need to earn more production. In such a way that we can raise the wages. When we raise our salaries, the contributions are bigger, more money in PIO insurance. This ensures generational dignity for those who lived before us. We all want to live long, but none of us will be old. That's impossible. So if you want to live long, of course you have to grow old. When you get older, you're not working hard, someone else has to work for you. Do you know how many people we're over 65 years old, that's gonna be a new problem? We've got far more people than 65 years old than 15 years old. This shows that we're going to have to handle money carefully, that we're going to have to raise production, that people are going to have to be more productive, that we're going to have to have a more innovative industry that's more profitable to provide money with less people for more old people. We were just listening to the money share here. None of these opposition ranks wanted to show how money was a thing. Money is a means to exchange goods. As someone who produces goods, I know very well how it is created, very well all those pensioners with the lowest pensions had the hardest jobs, the hardest work. They were miners, they were metals, they were welders, many of them passed on their knowledge for generations. They deserve, I repeat, that they have a thousand euros in pension. But we who are still able to work have to make that pension for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62866	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. At the same time, you were the last speaker of the MPs. Now the closing word has Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62867	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, today, when we discussed the budget rebalancing of the PIO Fund, we heard all sorts of things that had nothing to do with this rebalancing at all. We heard remarks about the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year, we heard remarks about Serbia's budget rebalances, we heard stories about young people who didn't have a foothold since the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how it takes care of young people by giving them incentives and subsidies, making sure that young people stay here after college and after school. We're working on retraining. We have heard comments about the Law on PIO, although it is yet to enter the congregation procedure and we have heard the advice of the opposition asking for some advice, such as not increasing pensions and not giving this aid of 5,000 dinars, something that should certainly be respected. I'll tell you just a brief history of everything the citizens of Serbia know. In 2009, the government's participation in the PIO Fund was 50%. So 50% of the money given to pensioners came from the budget. In 2009, the dinar rate dropped by 12%, inflation was 11%. In 2009, the average pension was 193 euros. Today, in 2019, or let's take an example in 2018, participation in the budget is 25%, so only one quarter. Then, the average pension is 228 euros, before the increase, and the dinar has strengthened, unlike that time by 0.1%. Also, in 2009, GDP and real growth were minus 2.7%. Today 2018, we ended up with 4.3%. In 2009, the average prices, as I said, were over 11%. In 2018, we ended up with 2%. Unemployment was 24% back then. Never lower 10.3 today. In the second quarter, we expect it to be lower in the third quarter. In 2010, exports to the Serbian economy were at six billion euros. In 2018, we ended up with 16.3 billion euros. Foreign direct investment, and in 2010, was 1.1 billion. In 2018, we ended up with 3.2 billion. In 2010, the average earnings were 331 euros. In 2019 on today, and she before increasing 460 euros and on the Duing Business List in 2009, which the opposition is talking about today, we were 94, Today, after the publication of the Duing Business List of us 44th place. We are, of course, still not satisfied with it, and we want it to be better in our Serbia. So, I can only conclude that after the destructive policy led by the DS of two thousand years, when our country was systematically destroyed, when decisions were made that were against the interests of our citizens, we today make decisions that are in the interest of our citizens. Our decision is to give this rebalance to our pensioners 5,000 dinars and we want our pensioners to be better from year to year, day to day, that they get an increase in pensions from year to year, and not how the opposition advises not to give 5,000 dinars and not to increase pensions and that there are no real grounds. And since there are real grounds and policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be just like this - the better life of our pensioners, the better life of our citizens, is the motto of our work, and so it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-25-0.u62868	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Thank you, all the MPs at the debates. On the basis of Article 98(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. I am informing the MPs that we will continue our work Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 17.55 p.m.]]
