ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59313	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 69 peoples. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search in the proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data and a proposal for a decision to select the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. Does MP Mirko Krlic, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information want to talk about these proposals? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59314	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have an opportunity to inform you on this agenda point in short lines, to introduce you to the process of proposing a candidate for the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. At the very beginning of this presentation, I would like to point out in particular that, for the selection of the Commissioners, the procedure is identical to the procedure of December 2011, which is determined otherwise by Article 30. The law on free access to information of public importance. I point out this because we have suffered all the MPs, especially the Committee presidents and members of the Committee on Culture and Information of a variety of pressures. We've been buried for weeks with e-mails, with all kinds of suggestions, but I'll talk more about it when I speak in principle. I just want to point out once again that the procedure is completely identical and that it is legally prescribed. In light of the fact that the Commissioner is elected by the National Assembly to the majority of MPs on the proposal of the Committee on Culture and Information on 14 June 2019, we sent a letter to all MPs and, in fact, proposed to initiate the procedure for selecting the Commissioners. The deadline for submitting candidates was seven days and began from the next day since the call was submitted to all parliamentary groups. A total of three candidates were proposed by the Committee within the scheduled deadline, i.e. by Monday 24 June 2019. Mr Milan Marinovic was proposed on a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group, Nevena Ruzic, on a proposal from the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party, the DS parliamentary group, SDS, NS and Bojan Milosavljevic, on a proposal from the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party. I'll just remind you that in the previous election there was only one candidate. At a session held on 1 July 2019, the Committee discussed all the proposed proposals and found that all proposals were submitted neatly, that there was all evidence of the validity of the candidacy and that everything was in line with the member of the election law. At the same session, the Committee as an authorised promoter organised a conversation with the incoming candidates and, of course, all candidates had the opportunity to present themselves, and then members of the Committee and the members of the National MPs were given the opportunity to ask questions concerning their professional experience and work in the profession. I would particularly draw attention to the precedent that we have allowed these NGOs who have submitted requests to attend the Committee to do so, which is what we think we really have improved the transparency of the whole process. After the interview was held, the Committee joined the choice of candidates for the Trustee. It was unanimously decided to vote on each candidate individually in order to arrive at the candidates. Candidate Milan Marinovic, proposed by the SNS parliamentary group, receives 10 votes from a total of 11 members present. With such election results in mind, the Committee on Culture and Information has decided to propose to the National Assembly to elect this important function of the Commissioner, Mr Milan Marinovic. In the end, just to answer all those who regularly and impatiently asked the question – why was it waiting so long with the choice of the Commissioners? With the process of proposing the Commissioner, it was waiting for all parliamentary groups to have the opportunity to get acquainted with the work of the trustee so far and to come out with the right proposals for this job to be very important for the state to be significantly improved. With full confidence that we have succeeded, I call once again on all the honourable Members of the public to show their trust in Mr Milan Marinovic and to choose him as Commissioner for Information from public importance and protection of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59315	The Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59316	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the JS parliamentary group will support the proposal to elect the proposed candidate Milan Marinovic for the reason we believe that he deserves to be elected to this significant function of an independent regulatory body, because he has shown in his previous work as President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade and before, as judge in that same court, that he is principled, responsible, moral, to adhere to laws and regulations and that no one can exert any political or other influence in making decisions. I had the pleasure of being in several working groups that Mr. Marinović was in, and I can say with responsibility that he is everywhere and in every place he is worthy and that he will be worthy of these functions for which he is proposed, and that I am sure we will choose him. The JS parliamentary group believes that the election of Mr Marinovic on this function will stop earlier practice that this function and this independent regulatory body are used for various political purposes, that it has the influence of some political parties on its work and that it selectively chooses which procedures it will actively participate in, in which it will not, or hold some applications in the drawer. What the JS parliamentary group is proposing and suggesting is that in the future work of this independent regulatory body, however, some regulations are amended and that some of the work and activity of this body is narrowed down in the sense that they are not dealing with certain peripheral matters. We've had a case, given the circumstances, because I've been involved in some of the leading places in the local self-government of the City of Jagodin for a long time, and we've had such cases that the demands of this regular body have been made to provide certain information that absolutely does not serve those people, except that they distract the people and that we simply spend time collecting certain data. When I say that, I have one example in mind and a case where there's a group of citizens, who has so many members, how much it was necessary to just register, that they asked the City of Jagodina to give them the data back for five years on official travel, on diaries, on fuel, on various things. I'm not going to advertise this group of citizens, but it's a group of citizens of such importance that the greater importance of a band of high-flying pigeons from some city is that of them. So in that part, I think and suggest to Mr Marinovic that in future work he is selectively approaching when looking for some data, that is to say, to some public enterprises, institutions, etc. ask for certain data, that it must be selective to approach these requirements and to see whether these requests go in favour of public opinion, that information rights are given in something that is always important and important for the development of the Serbian state, and not only to satisfy some personal one, I would say political interests, not political interests, etc. And in the end, once again, I would like, in advance, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, because I am sure that it will be chosen to wish Mr Milan Marinovic successful work, to be even more successful in this function, than at his current post as President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59317	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been here this month to discuss the reports of almost everyone, but not all of these so-called. independent bodies, which we introduced obviously without any need, at least some of them, and we heard different opinions here. What is very important, all of them as they are, has drawn attention to the fact that the government does not respect the Public Procurement Act, which is indeed a major problem and a great source of corruption. We've been listening here from the government, some of us have been a little bit praised by those so-called. independent organs, some attacked them, defiled them, they acted alike. We saw an incident with this Citizens' Protector who was late for a session of the National Assembly for an hour and a half. We've seen all sorts of things, but it's very interesting that the representatives of the government, despite serious criticism, are what you are, for example. We will vote for them. The same was true of this Shabic, who is now in office. The same thing happened to that Sasha Jankovic guy. Those originals weren't yours, but in the meantime they became yours. Some of you have chosen with all praises, as it will be today with this Mr. Marinović, some of you have first failed when they were first elected, and when you re-elected them, then they have suddenly become very good and very important for the development of this society and voted for them. So these are all your people and their actions are your responsibility. Your responsibility is all that Rodoljub Sabic has done since the very beginning. So, you chose someone who became a politician in the meantime, as was the case with Sasa Jankovic, of course everyone has the right to deal with every action, but not at the same time as the Protector of Citizens and Politicians, at the same time as the Trustee and Politician. It simply can't, but in the state of Serbia everything seems possible and everything can. It is a problem that, until it is resolved, we can talk about whatever we want, as long as we want, but we important state affairs, or you, important state affairs, because this is the EU's answer, you give into the hands of some individuals who are first with the authority that chooses them, in the meantime they are obviously prone to corruption, so buy them someone else, and then attack those who chose them and all of them indiscriminately. They should, of course, be critical about themselves, they should be critical about power, but not just because they're rooting for this one now, so they're not rooting for that one, and that's really something that needs to be interrupted. This is an opportunity, let's say, that's what we told you the other day about this Milo Obradovic, and now we're talking about this trustee, and this is an opportunity to say – we don't need it anymore. We have to choose the Guardian of Citizens because he's a constitutional category. The only institution with this director and the one before, who really does his job right, is the DRI. Everything else is politicians, little of theirs, little of yours. Sometimes more of theirs, sometimes more of yours and they get involved in various campaigns, mostly anti-state campaigns. I'm now very surprised by the fact that you allowed it, firstly it's just amazing that some NGOs can interfere with the state's business. To propose NGOs to their candidates, it's absolutely unacceptable. You said you invited all MP groups to propose their candidates. The Serbian Radical Party did not do this, not because we do not have an adequate candidate, but because we know that this is a selection of the assembly majority. We only tried once, and we had a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, who met all the conditions and had all the references better than this trustee who with 6.01 average finished Law School and, of course, we only bullied that woman for free to collect various documents. You didn't even want to discuss it, but that's why you're discussing someone proposed by NGOs. Even here, the president of the Committee boasts that an extra civilization step has been taken, he says - we have allowed NGOs to participate in the work of the board. It's a demeaning of the National Assembly. That's the humiliation of the National Assembly, and you should never have done that. Who are these NGOs trying to run politics in Serbia over this or over that? It's those who organize the Mirdita festival in Belgrade, these women are black, it's this young initiative, it's this Natasa Kandic Fund and they're interfering in all state affairs and you let them do it. What you're boasting about, we think it's absolutely inadmissible. We don't even know who Milan Markovic is and what he's supposed to do and what he's supposed to do, we're not even going to talk about it because you decided that he'll be elected trustee and he'll be safe and there's nothing to do and talk about. But you certainly have a comment on so far the trustee of Rodoljub Šabić, so do we. All, especially from the time he was about a year and a half ago, two days ago actively involved in the protection of these other Serbs, as they call themselves and who began to attack everything that is the interest of the Serbian and Serbian state. But he's not the only one who does it. The other day this Pasalic came forward, the famous for graduating from Law School with 6.01 average, so he is the Protector of Citizens and he understood that he should protect selective citizens, the same ones who protect women in black and Natasa Kandic. And he stepped into the protection of this journalist Snow White Congradin and said he should, imagine, create a pressurizing platform. Press platform on the press? And who's putting pressure on the press? Who's stopping reporters from doing their job? They're doing it even radically, but everyone has the right to comment, as a journalist has the right to comment on a politician, there is a journalist politician, but that Pasalic was upset that Seselj insulted this Congradin, because it looked like a mongos, and it didn't offend him, the Citizens' Protector, that this Snow White man, Chongradin, said there was a genocide in Srebrenica. That's absolutely inadmissible. If he was supposed to react somewhere, that's where he had to react. That's where everyone had to react. That's where we had to react, all of us. Do you notice that a campaign is being conducted to get into the ears of the people that genocide occurred in Srebrenica and unfortunately many state authorities have been involved consciously or unconsciously in the campaign. And everyone turns around, replaces the thesis, everyone deals with whether Seselj insulted Snow White Congradin or not, and no one wants to ask the question of how a newspaper can even appear in which a journalist writes that he lives in Serbia, in a country that is genocide and whose people have committed genocide in Srebrenica. It's the same campaign that has been slow for years when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and then it started out like that, only in these media, and now in many others, the Kosovo government, the Kosovo Assembly, is gone, too. not self-proclaimed. It simply becomes something in the ears of the people as if it really exists. Then we have tourist organizations that offer children, i.e. in the tests of some, and agencies, to round up where children would like to go on a field trip, and says – you should choose the biggest peak in Serbia, but it says, and imagine that, teachers read to children, says – but it is not Ljuboten on the Sar-Mountain, because Kosovo and Metohija is no longer Serbia. That's amazing. You're all quiet to these and to the government, and to the NGOs, no one cares. No one cares about it, all of it like that – that's what we should do and what we should do. It's not like that, and we have to work so it doesn't. Is it possible, my people, that you didn't all hold conferences to call RTS public service and tell them – from this moment on in the budget you won't get a penny, because the night before last they repeated what they did ten days ago, they showed a forecast on the map where Kosovo was separated as a special state. I really don't know what's going on with you in power, why do you allow such things, and you can influence them how you can? There has been a lot of talk here in recent days about TV "N1", about the newspaper "Today", etc. Indeed, these are the media that need to raise their voice, which, when it comes to newspapers, is not being bought, here we call it. Those of us who have to read them, simply on official duty, we have to see what they're writing, there's all sorts of nasty things they hear. It's been there every day, and it's been written there for days that Srebrenica had been genocide for days on the front page. Days of cartoons by politicians from the government, from the opposition and no one reacts, but it reacts to Pasalic, he says – we need a platform on press pressures on journalists. Imagine your mother, just amazing. But what else do we have in that "Today"? In that "Today" yesterday, you had the newspaper in your hand, yesterday a Kosovo state ad appeared in newspapers sold in Serbia and printed in Serbia. And nothing, as if no one had opened that paper, as if no one had seen it. One more thing, you indirectly finance "Today", you from the government. Because every ad, whether it's a state body, whether it's the authorities of local self-government, any ad you want to hide from the public you're giving in "Today" because they have thousands of readers, thousands of people who buy them and to hide the ad, you have to pay that ad and actually finance "Today". Then what have we got? We now have some strange, after that Snow White Congradin, and her shameful inadmissible statements that genocide happened in Srebrenica, she even if she thought something like that, and if she was written she'd read the Convention and she'd see that it was impossible, but if someone paid her to do it, someone from abroad, someone who was an enemy of Serbia, she could think about it. She can go with those ladders and that there's this circle of people talking, but that it's written in the paper and that everyone falls down on someone who attacked it instead of her, it's absolutely unacceptable, it's amazing and it's far from common sense. Now, everything goes, says, attack on women. What women? Is there a difference if someone deals with politics, between a man and a woman, between a young man and an older man? If someone's a journalist, what difference does it make if it's male or female? There's nothing good to say about anyone who says there was genocide in Srebrenica, even if it was 99 times female, even if it was a hermaphrodite, at least whatever they wanted. It's got nothing to do with it and you're completely out of control turning that story around. Now women, some kind of, some part of a network, etc., appear, attack Seselj, because God insulted Snow White Congradin, and they didn't come forward when Snow White Congradin said that Srebrenica was a genocide. Why, then, as a woman's network, did they not report to protect the women's population among Serbs? That's when Serbs share and people share in general in men and women, which is absolutely amazing. For days, the same newspaper, it's been written to you for months that Vukic is at the top of a criminal pyramid, says that his brother, Andrei, is a criminal, says yesterday that his brother Sinishi is part of some corruption affair, writes about the apartments of some Sinishi Mali. So, in the worst possible way, they insult your highest-ranking officials, and your dear ladies are not responding because no one has offended your wife. What does it matter that someone insulted Vukic, what does it matter that he insulted Sinisha Malo, who insulted Nebojsa Stefanovic, is not interested in your ladies. But God forbid, he insulted Seselj Snowman Congradin and insulted Branko Jankovic, who was chosen as a trustee, and he calls himself a confidant, although it does not exist, which is absolutely part of this so-called part of his work. Serbian citizens, this Serbia that is against Serbia, absolutely. When was she answering? It came out that it attacked Minister Popovic, who was the only one with the courage and brains in the government to say that it was terrible when those scandalous paintings with some gay poses and shared preschool children appeared. He reacted, she attacked him, until she asked to resign or be transferred to the government. Who reacted, who was she reacting to? She reacted to protect Snow White Congradin. How come if she's a trustee, she didn't think to protect Serbian victims, to remember the day she went to Bratunac to go there as a trustee, to go to Bratunac, to bow down to Serbian victims? No, they are not victims for her because they are not for "women in black", because they are not for Natasa Kandic, because they are not for Sonja Biserko, because they are not for Vuk Jeremic, because they are not for Bosko Obradovic, because they are not for Dragan Gilas and all those anti-Serbian elements. You experience them in one part, but only when they attack your authority. Let's spread our perspectives a little bit, gentlemen. Talk about them this way and when they talk about it... I'm not saying now to defend Vojislav Seselj, because no one should defend this man. He himself defended himself in The Hague among those alams, and not here amongsts in Serbia. I'm talking about principles, I'm talking about you having an indirect participation in a campaign that's being run, and the campaign is to make it normal to say -- there's been genocide in Srebrenica. And there was no genocide in Srebrenica, whoever's in writing and doesn't have to be a lawyer, he can read it. Every lawyer is obliged to explain it as a lawyer and not to turn the game, that it's Seselj's fault now, now we're going to bring the code, watch out, damn it, now someone's going to teach us here a nice education. Well, they won't. We'll behave as we please. We have been saying for three and a half years that we need to bring the Rules of Procedure, not to raise someone, but to allow MPs to do their job. You were supposed to have someone on the side and tell you that's what you should be doing. It's not good, my people. We are a state-run party, we want to help the state of Serbia, we want to help anyone who cares about Serbia and who works in Serbia's interest. That is certainly not what those who claim genocide happened in Serbia. We don't expect any of this, now to go back to what's the basic theme, we don't expect any good from this trustee you're choosing today. Now they're going to come after him, like they did with Shabic, give them this information, give them that information. Of course, all organs need to work in public. Information should not be protected, information should not be hidden from the public, but everything from the contract with the "Fiyat" and beyond, and cannot be chosen – this is an official secret, this is no official secret. He will soon, probably like everyone else, succumb to those so-called influences. Other Serbs who run an active campaign against Serbia, and I call on you, dear colleagues from the government, to take good care of them, do not support them indirectly. I know you don't do it directly, and we know what you're saying directly in response to the question whether there was genocide in Srebrenica, but if between the insults of Snow White Congradin, who said that Srebrenica was genocide, you step into the protection of hers, attack whoever allegedly insulted her, and not attack her because she said that Srebrenica was genocide, then you're indirectly in that campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59319	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59320	I've probably got a replica. I asked for the replica because my colleague quoted parts of my statements at the press conference. I'll answer very briefly. Serbia is a democratic state. So in Serbia, there is freedom of opinion and of speech and of MPs and of all other citizens. No one in this country wants to be a censor, be in power or anything else. The Serbian Radio Television will continue to carry out direct transmissions of our sessions and this is the flow of democracy, and of course we as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will continue to finance it. Neither the need to change the Rules of Procedure depends on someone outside, outside this building and outside the Republic of Serbia, nor the need to adopt an ethical code. So, no one here is some immature being who needs a tutor outside this line to notice that he's missing the Rules of Procedure that we're working on and who brought in DSS and MPs who somehow magically support and represent Gilas and Jeremic have written, we're all agreed here that something must change in the future. The Ethics Code, slowly all of Europe's parliaments, and we will one day, no one singles out the need to do it because of one single case that happened. My deep opinion, no matter who, when, what he says criticises some occurrences in our society, regardless of whether he represents party representatives who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia or represent citizens who are oppositionally minded, every word must be measured in criticism, and there is no place for direct and personal insults – you are ugly, you have, you have no husband, you are divorced, you are ugly, you are a monkey and I don't know what, it really exceeds some way of treating our citizens who vote for us. They do not expect us to encourage and justify our attitudes in this way. Just in that sense, I thought. Of course, it does not come to the attention of party representatives who support the Serbian government to support a part of the opinions present here in our society that is slowly trying to introduce some censorship or what they had during the communists, which was a verbal delinquent as a criminal act, that no one in our country should say anything without the other part of society agreeing. In that sense, I've been discussing, I've never given a grade at all, everyone has the right to perform politically and to say what they think. It is good for individuals in our country to say what we, as most Serbian citizens, condemn here. But we cannot forbid anyone to say anything, no matter how harmful it is to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. I will no longer discuss this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59321	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The faithful Radeta is entitled to a replica. Mr. Krlic, you're a proposing representative, you can always answer, but we need to close this circle of replicas first. You have unlimited time, no worries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59322	I hope this is where I end this round. I fully agree with Mrs. Maja Gojkovic when she said that freedom of opinion and speech is allowed in Serbia and that we should all fight for it. That's absolutely true, and I guess we've been fighting for it since we existed on the political scene. That the Rules of Procedure should be changed, too, and I'm okay with it. There's nothing controversial about it. That you shouldn't think about restoring a verbal delinquent, of course not. But the only thing I can't agree with is that now someone else has to evaluate and determine by some act that someone will address, especially when it comes to MPs. People's MPs respond to the people in the elections, and no one should worry about an MP group, about some political party, how much they get a percentage if they tell someone this or if they tell anyone. In what way will someone say, for God's sake, our people say, according to the saint and the troupe. How can that be said for someone who claims to have been genocide in Srebrenica? It's, we repeat, the campaign and that campaign we all have to stand up to. If we give in and change the thesis, then it won't be good, then it'll be some thesis that will start to appear in all the media, but for now only in those who are open anti-state and I know, of course, that tomorrow this will be a topic, and tonight, on one television, tomorrow in the paper, etc. But we don't have a problem with that. They can say whatever they want about us, they can say we're rude, we're rude, we're like this, we're like this, but nobody can ever say we're thieves and nobody can ever say we're doing anything that's not in Serbia's interest. And to that end was our debate too, and we will indeed repeat daily that there was no genocide in Srebrenica, because we will not allow this false thesis to prevail in the people, as I repeat, almost commonly, that even now, at RTS, we hear that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of Serbia. That's inadmissible. You know, it goes a little bit by little, step by step, undetectable. That's why we have to root it out and stamp everyone who says Kosovo is not Serbia and that genocide happened in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59323	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now he has the word of the proposing representative, Mirko Krlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked for the right to a replica, because the lady mentioned me as a function. I don't think Mrs. Radeta has any evil intentions, but it's just a misunderstanding. So, I may have been vague, but no NGOs are invited to propose any candidate for the trustee. The process begins by issuing an invitation to parliamentary groups that only propose a candidate. No NGOs participated in the work of the board, but were given the right to attend the committee at written request. We had five representatives of NGOs, the same way we sometimes have guests here on the balcony. And that's all about the participation of NGOs in this election. I'm not saying they didn't try, and I said I'd talk about all the attempts and pressures in principle. I am still proud that we have improved the transparency of this election and the work of the board, which is the main feature of this parliamentary majority, which has nothing to hide, which is not afraid of the excess democracy and is ready to work transparently on all matters, including this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59325	Thank you, colleague Krlic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59326	I understood everything well. I certainly didn't mean it. There's no surplus or lack of democracy, democracy or there isn't. But NGOs have proposed that Neven, I don't know what his name is. They published in their media, the five-six groups of NGOs, that she is their proposal. And then the parties, who otherwise do not, allegedly, participate in parliament's work, were invited to propose some of the parties to the woman, because they realized that according to our acts, NGOs cannot propose. And then this text party and the Democrats, who don't normally participate in the work of parliament, just propose to us the trustee, and who else did say he proposed, and then it's like officially their proposal. But that's essentially a proposal for those five NGOs. The rest in writing, they answered like that. You still say you didn't invite anyone to attend the session, they didn't participate in the work, but you answered their letter by telling them they could come. You could have been nice, if I were you, and if I were a board member, I'd insist that they be answered so they can't come or ignore them, I wouldn't answer anything. And you can't compare those women in black, that Antonijevic from the Natasa Kandić Fund, the youth initiative, etc., you can't compare with the people who are guests on this balcony. Here come the people who are invited by the president of the National Assembly, who are official representatives or some state, or some organization, or some college students, or some high school kids who, behold, have a wish, and that's a completely different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59327	Your time is up. Thank you. We're moving on with authorised representatives. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59328	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who will vote for the formal termination of Rodoljub Sabic's mandate. No matter what his term of office is, by the very act of voting and confirming that he is no longer a trustee, you have done a great deed. When a politician, a multi-party figure from the Union of Communists, through the reform party of Ante Markovic, is later camouflaged into social democracy, and into the Social Democratic Party, and probably will soon form the fifth party, we can see him perhaps at Which or someone, we can see that such a politician will surely find refuge in a party nest, when such a man becomes a trustee, an independent body, with a multi-party politician, for whom I don't know where he was, a prominent human rights fighter and so on, that he was in East Germany, that he was in Bulgaria, that he was in Eastern Europe, that he was in Poland, he would have been lustrated. He is not lustrated, therefore, as a party official and a man who has performed some sublegal duties in a one-party society, I believe he could not perform any public function, and especially could not be a trustee. Now I guess you can see why the trustee became a conspirator. So, a person with so many problems in his biography, and I would say that someone who was a member of the four parties, that someone who was a national MP in front of a party, that someone who was a deputy, or who was vice president of the Assembly, someone who was a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, certainly couldn't have been elected to such a function because he was particularly sensitive and because it could be someone who was against all parties. So someone who is a human rights fighter, who is not interested in public, political and so on, but is exclusively interested in the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He was chosen by some rotten political contract in 2004 and was acting as you all have experienced it, and I believe that I have experienced it together with several fellow MPs, in the worst possible form. So I'm that lying liar he's talking about. So when someone elected by the Assembly of any national MP in the Serbian Parliament calls him a lying thief, he cannot perform any public function, especially in such a sensitive place. But it happened to him, too. Whether at the time he wrote it was "entered" or not, I can't get into it. Later events have shown that even the consumption of these funds, psychoactive substances, is not foreign to him, like Zivkovic. So, ladies and gentlemen, apart from tweeting his political function has been subordinated to the fight against the government of the Republic of Serbia, from the moment he received support, he and Sasa Jankovic, from the British Embassy. Until then, he scratched us a little bit, and since then, he's been biting off big pieces. Eighty thousand British pounds shared by him and Sasa Jankovic, he called it a great lie, the one who gave it to a lying liar, and then published all that information on his website. Yeah, it's true, but whoever brought it out is a lying liar. We put up with it with dignity. My colleague Martinovic, Mrs. President of the Assembly, and I were under special attention to Rodoljub Sabic. I don't want to be long, I want to be the future trustee, whom we choose, and I'm not happy that we choose officials who have bigger salaries than those who choose them. I claim, and you can accept it any way you want, that MPs and presidents of the Republic, who choose, must not have less personal income than those who choose. I find that unforgivable. Today we choose the Trustee again, before we choose the Protector, who will have three times the salary of those who choose him. Let that personal income make them feel special, feel above the Assembly, above the President of the Republic, because, of course, they have more salaries than the President of the Republic of Serbia, than the President of Parliament, and they think that their function is at the height of the salary, that they are divinely independent, that they are far above us and that they can speak of Parliament, the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly as they wish. I want the future Commissioner to wish he didn't do what Shabic did without doing everything he didn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59329	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59330	Thank you, Chairman. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I am pleased first by the fact that in an extremely correct and democratic procedure we have chosen a candidate for the Commissioner for Information from public importance and protection of personal data. Of the three candidates, we've chosen one that we're proposing to the Assembly today. It wasn't easy for us, since we had three candidates, two of whom in the beginning were singled out in their experience and professional qualities. Each of the candidates has their specificities and experiences from the work of the Trustees who make them authentic and it was hard to decide on one and say that one is better than the other. One has experience in work in the office of the Commissioner, and the other, which we are talking about today, experience in judicial practice and resolution of complaints in cases of violations and disrespect of the Protection Act on Personality and Access to Information of Public Meaning. I don't remember ever being so hard on the board. The information belongs to citizens, everyone has the right to know what decisions the authorities have made on their behalf, and that is why it is extremely important for me to introduce citizens closer to the procedure and during the session of the Committee on Culture and Information, where we chose Milan Marinovic as a candidate for the new Trustee. The public is extremely and for various reasons extremely interested in selecting the Trustees and the sessions are as guests or observers, if you will, also attended representatives of the civil sector, or NGOs, who gave their support to candidate Nevena Ruzic. I am sorry that the candidate did not receive the support of all those parties who have also proposed, officially, Neven Ruzic as a candidate for the new Commissioner, but voted only one MP at a session of the Committee on the Proposal. The expression of democracy, for me, also represents that we have, therefore, had more candidates to talk about, because I think it's always good that every candidate has an opponent, which in some previous cases, not only when we talk about selecting the Commissioner, has not often been the case. I believe the candidate we're talking about today will do the job of the Trustee in the same way and will continue to do his job professionally. He has acted as a judge since 2010, according to both laws in the work of the Commissioners, was a member of the Working Group who was working on the Code on the Protection of Alarmers, which was assessed as one of the best in Europe. As President of the Court and Judges, he saw, as he himself told us at that session of the Committee by presenting his plan and programme, he saw through his work both the good and the bad of both laws, therefore, and the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Protection of Personality Data. He's seen anomalies and laws and practices that, I repeat once again, as he told us at the Committee's session, can be corrected. It's also important to say this, because in public it could be heard when there was nothing to object to and challenge the very procedure of selecting candidates at a session of the Committee on Culture and Information. Then it was said that the candidates were left with very little time to expose their plans and work programme, and so I think it is extremely important that I mention this too. So, even though we formed the trustee institution in 2004, we as a society are still building and promoting it. It took a lot of time and will and commitment of all the employees in the institution to fight for their status, despite the slowdowns and often obstructions and the very work of the start of the trustee institution in our country. Let us remember that at the very beginning, the formation of the institution marked a number of problems. The first trustee, first of all, had no room, so he didn't have enough staff, so I don't want to list all the problems he was facing right now. So it worked then, and I remember the 2004 debates, when MPs also claimed the opposition mostly at the time, that the will and intention to show respect and support for the formation was not shown at the outset, more specifically by the work of the Commissioners. It was then, and unfortunately today there are institutions and public enterprises that do not respect the Law on the availability of information of public importance, refuse to give public insight into their work and prefer to pay fines and non-compliances on the orders of the Commissioner. It is not enough just to form independent institutions and improve their work, and doing very little to make it truly work in practice. Of course, responsibility is the biggest for this job at the Trustee, but the National Assembly and everyone else, and the state authorities, public enterprises, are obliged to comply with the laws that we make. So, is the situation ideal today? No, but at least when it comes to the terms of a trustee institution, the situation is far better. Is there room for further promotion and strengthening of the institution itself? You're damn right it is. I am pleased that, as a Member of the ruling majority, I can also make a personal contribution to the process by my choice, i.e. by voting for an excellent candidate. I hope and believe that Milan Marinovic will receive undivided support from parliament and will justify trust and work in the interests of citizens, respecting and improving the laws, so that citizens truly in full capacity can exercise their right to information on the work of state authorities and the protection of personal data. I believe that with its authority, it will do everything possible to make the law clearer, but that institutions themselves know when they can be called upon to some right, and when they do not fully cooperate with the citizens and the Commissioner himself. To begin with, it is very important that we as the Assembly give full support to both the Commissioner and all the independent institutions we have chosen and behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59331	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59332	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, today we have no naive task, the choice of Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personality data, an institution formed in 2004. Representatives of the SPS participated in the work of the Committee on Culture as the committee responsible, which may say, selected candidates who had been proposed. The Socialists did not take advantage of their right to have their candidate as the Trustee, because in Mr Milan Marinovic we recognized the quality and capacity to perform this function in quality. I agree that we need to talk about this in the general public. Unequivocally, the Institute of Public Information is very important for Serbia, and I agree that practice has shown that such institutions have been able to politicise themselves over time. What I want to point out is that it is an independent state body, chosen by the National Assembly, I am trying to quote the definition, independent of doing its part, and it is a role that when citizens cannot directly obtain information from public authorities of the public importance they need, they lodge a complaint with the Commissioner who requests such information on their behalf. However, I agree with another finding we have heard since this morning, when this debate started, which is that there is also this obligation that says: protection of personality data, which says that it is necessary to react unequivocally to everything that happens to people who are actors of public life in Serbia, without distinction, but primarily from here, I also have to say when it comes to people who are involved in political life. Ideological differences are acceptable and necessary. It would be crazy if we worked with one idea, one-party system, one-brained. A political struggle is allowed, and as such, it must not have its own limit except that which, rightly speaking, we personally place as a healthy human being. Do we know how to exaggerate internal communications? Yeah. Unorthodoxly provoked by ourselves, by someone's effect, by someone's ineffectiveness, we say more than anyone would expect us to hear or want to hear. When I generally began to deal with politics, my reactions were to be rash, to be reactions of the moment, but fortunately, the SPS took 29 years, and then you had someone to learn from and learn from. So I learned one sentence that SPS President Ivica Dacic often says – it is not important to respond to everything that is said, first of all we need to trust who has said it, and it needs its answers to do so. I'll go back to the trustee institution. Milan Marinovic showed to the Committee on Culture, and I had the privilege of hearing as a member of the Committee on Culture, that, above all, he knew the institution whose head he would be, that he seemed to be V.D. For many years, the President of the Criminal Court has held his office responsibly, and this is indeed confirmed by the fact that there have been changes in power, but not by changing him in the position he has been in. So we're talking about a political personality that really won't reflect its political sympathy or antipathies through the function it's going to perform. We have also recently considered the report on the work of the Commissioner and, what is very important, and through the discussion there has been a lot of dissatisfaction, there has been a lot of controversy about continuity or discontinuity. However, it is vital that the Commissioner be someone who is aware of the fact that he is entrusted with the right to protect and to make sure that he truly respects his obligation. He is, in fact, someone who intercedes between the public and individuals and the authorities. In other words, to make it perfectly clear to the citizens, if you look for some information that is owned or controlled by one of the public authorities and you do not get an answer or you are not satisfied with it, then you will refer your complaint to the Commissioner. He must be both impartial, and objective, and defender of rights and independent of all other state authorities and, I will agree with some colleagues, must not in any way reflect his personal animosity towards anyone, especially the MPs who participated in his choice, without making a difference whether they gave him or didn't show confidence. What I will also point out when it comes to the trustee is that his obligation, again I say, is part of the respect of the Personal Data Protection Act. What does that mean, too? This means, and I hope that I will not only say my position, but also the position of all of us sitting here as colleagues in the Serbian Parliament, without distinction whether we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition, each of us individually has the right to protect our personality, and we are rarely as MPs, as representatives of public life, exposed to criticism that is to the extreme borders and uncultural and unwise, unorthodox and banal. We read everything in the press. We've heard everything from those who don't think like us and this one process that's been going on for decades. He's not new, he's not present. He can only escalate at some point. For the SPS, it has always been important and most important to function in a way that makes the citizens of Serbia and Serbia better. The continuity of our policy is viewed exclusively and only in this way will we continue to perform our functions, without distinction whether it is part of Parliament's work, participation in the work of the Government or participation in the work of any local self-government. Supporting the new SPS Commissioner and MPs will unequivocally give, in a firm belief that we have a candidate before us who will justify our trust. My personal impression is as a member of the Committee on Culture that there is no space for moving what could have been seen in Mr Marinovic's first appearance, and this is one responsibility primarily to his own personality and to his personal authority and integrity that he has unequivocally owned when it comes to the area he has dealt with, and the Commissioner himself has very much to do with what Mr Marinović is closely specialised in. So, in the day of the Socialist vote, the Socialists will support Milan Marinovic, and in a further debate, my distinguished counterparts will speak on the issue of the end of the term of office of the current trustee, the election of the new Commissioner in accordance with the time that the SAA has in its possession and at its disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59333	The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59334	I thank you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, soon ends 17 years of establishing a trustee institution for information of public importance in our country. I remind you, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Matter on 5 November 2004. The law established the institution of the Trustee, as an independent state body, independent in the exercise of jurisdiction in order to exercise the right to free access to information of public importance. Also, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 22 December 2004, chose Rodoljub Sabic, a graduate lawyer, who thus received his first term of office, for information of public importance and protection of personality data. Sabic led the facility for a total of 14 years, but in a total of two terms of seven years. Sam Sabic pointed out at the beginning of his mandate that he paid for the making of stamps, that party friends from the then DOS did not provide him with working conditions, that he had no rooms, equipment, necessary material and people, and that the entire time he began his term as a trustee of such an important institution in Serbia, that his work had been blocked all along. Sabic's second term at the Commissioner's post expired last year, on 22 December 2018 with stable sources of funding, with a large number of people employed in this institution and with good working conditions. I would also like to remind all Serbian citizens of the political biography and work biography of Rodoljub Sabic, and to assure you that Sabic was anything but independent, impartial and politically unburdened in his work. According to the "E-choices" portal, Rodoljub Sabic's official biography stands. Sabic began politics in the 1980s, when he served in the government of Ante Markovic as the Undersecretary of legislation. He was one of the founders of social democracy, in 1997, of the late Vuk Obradovic party. Later, he bowed to the Social Democratic Party of Nebojka Covic. In January 2001, he was elected vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, and on a proposal from Zoran Djindjic, the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government takes over and then becomes a minister. In 2004, he was elected Commissioner for Public Information, and then, in accordance with the Law on Free Access of Information, he had to resign in the party and take over the role of the Trustee, because he could not be elected a person who performs a political function. Along with seven lawyers, CESID established to allegedly prove election thefts, which according to him contributed to DOS victory in the 2000 elections. I will remind all citizens of Serbia, it was an opposition that was against the regime of the then president, Slobodan Milosevic. So, from all the data out of the way, I can say that Shabic was no independent expert at the head of the trustee institution, but on the wings of DOS, 19 parties gathered in the coalition, surrounded by that he too won after 5 October his share of the government, his part of the cake that I thought belonged to him. Policy burden, he is present all the time in his rule at the head of this institution, especially in the last few years, by coming to power of the SNS. Shabic was then profiled as a political figure who led orchestrated attacks, one, I would say, a really dirty campaign against the government and against the president of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also MPs, in particular those of the ethnic MPs who are members of the SNS. They're starting to step forward in the media about all the laws that are being proposed. Sabic performs as a political figure commenting on the laws always in a negative way, often distorting, falsifying the right facts and the very content of the law, as well as the reasons for its adoption. It's not a problem that Shabic's acuity with politics. One politician, always a politician, always that desire for politics. The problem is that the politician is in an attempt to pay the money of Serbian citizens to protect their rights, the right to the availability of information from public importance. It was not paid by Serbian citizens to tweet, retweet, layish and announce the abominations of state authorities in Serbia, to criticise, insult all those who think and do differently, who have chosen these same citizens in a democratic way in the elections. It started with no stamps, no rooms, no equipment, no personnel. He finished his second term with rooms, with staff, with equipment during the government, which he criticised more and more every day. He kept complaining that there was not enough capacity and funding in the work of this institution, and the truth is next. Indeed, as a member of the Administrative Board with all my colleagues and the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, but also his predecessor, Zoran Babic, I can confirm that we have never rejected any initiative by Rodoljub Sabic, while he was the Commissioner for Public Information. The data also says that 33 million dinars of money from Serbian citizens have been spent for employment in the Service of the Trustees, and when its business is controlled, we actually come up with really strange things, from the contract with the wife, the money supplier Vuk Jeremic, through official travels, to the purchase of the most expensive mobile phone. These are facts that are really easily available, that are verifiable and that have honor and cheek he would have confirmed so far in public and he would admit it. He spent time at press conferences where he brutally attacked ministers and MPs, a total of 207.430 dinars. When all Sabic's expenses and wastefulness are collected while he was at the head of this body, we actually come up with some great figures. I ask myself this publicly, I ask all of you MPs, all of Serbia's citizens, what could we do with all that money, how many hospitals, homes of health, clinical centres could we build and do with that money that Rodoljub Sabic so easily squandered? It's past the time of demagogy, of empty stories, of politics. Today people want to really see tangible results from the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, people who are responsible for political functions. Indeed, people in Serbia want to see if there is a shift in society or not. Today people also want to see if they have a bridge, whether they have a street, whether they have a highway, whether they have a sewer in their neighborhood, whether their children and they have a job for themselves and for their family, whether they have regular salaries and pensions. This is what Serbian citizens are interested in, not politics, foreigning and spending, the blatant spending of taxpayers' money in the Republic of Serbia, as it was during Rodoljub Sabic, while in two terms it was headed by this very important institution. The results of the Serbian government, whose responsibility for the exercise of power, above all, has SNS, show that we are always on fire and that only the results count. It is precisely these results that citizens confirm by supporting our policy and our results in all elections since 2012. Independent bodies do not decide, Sabic, Jankovic and others alike, we have seen, do not win elections, the experiment has failed and the citizens will not, the citizens have punished them in the elections. The people of Serbia decide in the elections, as much as the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia liked it or not, Sabic is part of the old DOS team, the team of Jeremic, Djilas, Tadic and Sutanovac. Which did not respond to the embezzlement fraud of the new one by Gilas and his companies, "Darrekt Media", "Multicom Group", "Big print", owned by Dragan Gilas, who printed a huge amount of propaganda material and which was on the navel of the navel, as I would say, sucking money out of the city's register while he was mayor of Belgrade, and institutions that used his printing services, the "Big Print" printing works were institutions whose founder was the town of Belgrade, while Dragan Gilas was in power. Why did Sabic not react more strongly in 2010 and 2011 when the late Tjanic director of RTS decided to keep his mouth shut and to pay him a fine better than to provide information about harmful contracts, harmful business of RTS and sales of advertising space to RTS Gilas companies? Sabic then had better things to do, ran for second term, changed the address from DOS's uniform to wearing an alleged independent trustee's uniform, and the longest, I would say, of all in the failed yellow company was in office, until December of last year. It turns out that Shabic of all yellow officials and DOS officials remained the longest. I'm sorry I don't have enough time to divulge the details to the end of this fake human rights fighter, the false protector of information of public importance. His role was not always to protect citizens' rights to information from public importance. He assigned himself a role to deal with politics, to attack the president, the prime minister, the Twitter and the media, to jump to work, to have coffee and go on Twitter right away to see what was going on, not to miss something. Speaking of tweets and the use of mobile phones, Sabic provided himself with state money, taxpayers' money from the Republic of Serbia with a telephone of 160,000 dinars, state money, so that he could tweet, retweet, laciate until he's willing to work in the middle of the week. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs who may not know that, I would like to remind you that the salary of the Commissioner is 194,000 dinars and that it is equal to the salary of the Supreme Court. While the judge works day and night to earn that salary, Rodoljub Sabic tweets, paints flowers and travels, hangs various tweets, and thus spends time while Serbian citizens pay him during working hours. I would now refer to the working biography of the proposed candidate Milan Marinovic, who, on behalf of the SNS, was proposed by the head of the parliamentary club, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, as the place of Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data. We have indeed all been given the opportunity to get acquainted with the truly impressive and impressive biography of the President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade as members of the Committee on Culture and Information. It's really a career-free spot. When we compare these two biographies, the biography of the President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade Milan Marinovic and the lawyer and lawyer Rodoljub Sabic, we can see exactly the two Serbs and the main difference between us as SNS and them. Also, I would say that the working and professional biography of Judge Milan Marinovic is pure as a tear, which is also witnessed by the High Council of the Court of Justice's decision on the procedure of regular evaluation and evaluation of the work of the Judge of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, which the Commission of the Criminal Court of Appeal declared next, quotes - the work of Milan Marinović, President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, is regularly valued by the assessment of the extremely successful judicial function for the period from July 1st 2015 to June 30th 2018. This is also witnessed by a statistical report on the quality and quantity of work and a statistical report on the work of the court for the aforementioned period since Marinovic at his head. These data are indeed verifiable and these data are available to all MPs, to all citizens of Serbia and they say that the percentage of cases successfully solved in relation to the total number of cases during the time Milan Marinovic was president of the Criminal Court was really impressive, even 97.18% of successfully solved cases compared to the total number of cases, which is a really good and fantastic result. Judge Milan Marinovic's candidacy was positively expressed by his fellow judges, judges of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but also by others, such as the chairman of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. I believe that the election of Milan Marinovic would have really taken a step forward, because for the candidate, a judge with long-standing experience was proposed, but the fact that he had never dealt with politics, unlike earlier solutions, unlike Shabic, who was more and more involved in politics and foreigners, and less and less with his job for which he was paid fat. We must work to depolitize independent bodies, because only then as a society will we go forward and truly advance in the development of democracy and the acquisition of rights for all our citizens. In the end, I don't want to sound like I'm giving some lessons to the new trustee, but I want to say next. The success of an independent body in the future, the institutions of the Commissioner, will depend on several factors – not to sell secrets and not to trade information and secret information, not to run for mayor of Belgrade or any other public function while at the post of the Commissioner, not to waste taxpayers' money without purpose buying expensive phones or spending money on expensive official travels, not tweeting during working hours and not leading to a fight on Twitter against the president, prime minister, MPs, all that the former 14-year-olds have done, we are talking today about the termination of his mandate and in a formal sense, former Commissioner Rodoljub Šabic. In the end, indeed, a message that is simply permeated, a message for the end, that Serbia steps forward with bold steps towards a modern, orderly, internationally recognised and respected state. We cannot adopt proposals and new solutions just because we are asked by the Council of Europe, as was the case 15 years ago, when a trustee institution was established by law. We can't just deal with forms, not the contents of such an important institution as the trustee institution for information of public importance. We must work together to make the institution of the Trustees better, more independent, in order to ensure that the future person who is at the head of the institution is able to do his job in a safe way, does the job primarily professionally, independently, unburdened by political events, impartially. And it's a recipe for success. I believe that Judge Marinovic will be able to overcome it and will adopt in his work at the head of this important institution what the trustee institution in Serbia is like. The SNS parliamentary group, and today I see in today's debate that we will also get support for our solution from JS, the SDPS, will support the candidate judge and president of the Criminal Court in Belgrade Milan Marinovic for the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. I am convinced that Judge Marinovic will do the job in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because his work biography clearly shows that it was a real professional, honorable man, an unburdened policy, which has been continuously and continuously protecting human rights of citizens protected by applicable regulations since 1998. As Belgrade's longtime President of the Criminal Court as a responsible person, Milan Marinovic's working biography also acted on requests for free access to information of public importance, making sure that personal data protection is respected at the same time. I call on all my colleagues in voting day to support SNS candidate President of the Belgrade Criminal Court, Mr Milan Marinovic, for the new Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59335	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the list. This is the order of MPs, according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda, in accordance with Article 96. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important topic ahead of us. We MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have had quite a rich experience with the institution of the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data for almost a decade and a half since the very establishment of this institution. Personally, I was in correct relations with Mr. Sabic, but regardless, what I can say is that there is a clear difference in the functioning of this institution, as well as the first man of this body at the time of the former regime, or government, before Kostunica, afterwards Tadic and the current authorities. This is what my key and principled remark is, given that in certain other functions and roles we had huge problems and faced numerous abuses of information of public importance, as well as personal data. Then we reacted to this institution and we had very pale reactions or had no such reactions. So personally, though, in the role of the Islamic community's main mufti in 2007, I was forced to address a public letter to then-President Tadic and then Prime Minister Kostunica, pointing to these problems with which members of the Bosniak national community in this country, and members of the Islamic community were very often faced with regard to illegal listening, abuse of intelligence services and security services, and this was, unfortunately, very present. After that, in particular 2012, when I was a candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia in the presidential elections, there was a scandalous abuse of signatures that we, as presidential candidates, received for an overture of candidacy where through a judicial authority, which was in charge of over the overture of these signatures, actually my political opponents received these signatures and put pressure on torture, threats, various harassments to those who gave those signatures, and then we reacted, but there was no adequate reaction and adequate protection measures. Also, after 2007, in the impact on the Islamic community, more precisely on its unity and when the violent formation of a parallel or para-Islam community with clear political objectives, a clear political background with violations of a number of laws and principles, we had numerous abuses of various documents, counterfeiting of various data, in order to violently form one such community. It is now an opportunity for the Serbian Orthodox people to see how painful it is when a religious community is under attack through what is happening in Montenegro. In fact, this happened to us in 2007 with the full support of the regime at the time, with the abuse of state authorities, especially state authorities of force, such as police, intelligence and security services and other mechanisms that violently installed one such community, endangering mosques, endangering vacuum property, endangering one legal, centuries-old system of the Islamic community that existed there. We then had a number of irregularities related to the misuse of information of public importance and personal data and then we did not have adequate protection and therefore we certainly support this change. In the day to vote, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59337	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59338	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the People, today there is an extremely responsible task ahead of us, and this is the choice of a new Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. This year ends 15 years after the establishment of a trustee institution, an institution that was meant to work exclusively in the interests of citizens, but more than often, personally, by the Commissioner himself, has been used for the sake of achieving political interests of various foreign embassies and financial political centres of power. The Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection would have to be an impartial, objective defender of the right, independent of all other state bodies, who must not seek or receive orders and instructions for their work from other state bodies or other persons, let alone from foreign ambassadors and tycoons, meaning that the Trustee would have to be an independent and independent state body. I'm saying I had to, because the trustee so far was everything but what he was supposed to be, which I sincerely hope, after this election, the new trustee will be changed. When we talk about the trustee, it has to be one of the trustees, as the name itself speaks to him clearly, someone who will mediate between the public, individuals, various associations and public authorities, because the Commissioner is in charge of protecting the right to free access to information, and at the same time the body that protects the privacy of the personal data. The function of the Commissioner is regulated by the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning which, among other things, determines that the Trustee is elected by the National Assembly for a term of seven years. So far, the Commissioner has performed one person in two mandates, with a large part of the second term, as I have already said, being abused for political purposes, and so now in the election of the new Commissioner, we must not allow the error committed eight years ago in re-election of the previous one. Fortunately, Rodoljub Sabic was not an incoherent organ, but worked with him a large number of truly decent people who invested enormously positive energy in the work of this organ during the past period, but because of their own self-will and more than irresponsible behaviour of the same Rodoljub Šabić, their overall work results were brought under serious question. Because of all this, our responsibility in selecting a new Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personality data is even greater, since the one we select as the trustee must have the capacity to continue the continuity of what was positive and good in the work of this state body, but also to create a clear discontinuity with the political abuses of the functions of the Trustee committed by Rodoljub Sabic, a man who seriously violated the reputation and importance of the trustee institution itself, treating it as if the function of the Trustee should serve the interests of Rodoljub Sabic, not that Rodoljub Sabic should serve the interests of the citizens and the state of Serbia. Reading the biography of candidates submitted to us by the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information, with the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Trustees, I am of the opinion that the education, the unquestionable expertise and experience of Mr Milan Marinović guarantees just the necessary continuity, but even more necessary discontinuity that the Socialist Movement expects from the new Trustee for information of public importance and protection of personality data. We are convinced that Milan Marinović has all the necessary professional, human and moral qualities and that the choice of a person like Milan Marinovic guarantees that the institution of the Trustee will finally become independent, impartial and independent, as it must have been all these 15 years as the Institute of Trustees exists and works. We are convinced that Mr. Marinovic, when he is officially elected in a few days, in which we have no doubt, will immediately resort to work, show by responsible work that, unlike the previous Commissioner, this function can perform honorably, impartially, professionally, and that such work restores the necessary trust of citizens in this state body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59339	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59340	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, one of the applications of an open democratic society based on the rule of law is freedom of expression, i.e. access to information of public importance. This is why today's debate on selecting the Commissioner for Public Information has great importance. The trustee is an independent state body, independent of the exercise of its competence, and this institution of the Trustee has been established to exercise the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities. The right to free access to information was eventually granted as a special right. It was once treated as part of the right to freedom of expression, private rights, the right to a fair trial, and these are fundamental human rights. This right is part of legislation in over 100 countries in the world, and many international documents contain it. Therefore, this would be a unique opportunity and advice to the future trustee to work on the effectiveness of implementing its measures, i.e. to seek the moderation, and if changes and additions to the law are needed, so that he can really do his job in a quality and efficient way, and in this way be of benefit to the citizens, especially since we still have some of the remains of the past that are undefined, which are still trying in some way to abuse their former ties, and especially as we have heard from fellow public officials, MPs in some political or other accounts, and very often of some unconscious journalists are targeted at the various kinds of abuses of their private lives, the lives of their family members, etc. The trustee should also have a more concrete and efficient operation. It is simple, however the right of each individual of each group should be protected by public officials from getting into what is not and should not be touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59341	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go, Mrs. Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59342	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are discussing the proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. In her opening statement, my colleague, Snezana Pavlovic, detailed the SPS's views on this proposal. I would just repeat that the Commissioner's function is very important, the Trustee is independent in the work and acts as a control body whether the right of citizens threatens the state or anyone else. The trustee institution is important from protecting privacy to enabling answers to questions whether public administrations are working in line with public interests. The trustee is tasked with helping citizens access the data of the public importance he needs. The Commissioner performs his work by respecting two laws – the Personal Data Protection Act, which is in line with EU regulations in 2018, and the Law on free access to information of public importance. It's also a very important way to choose a trustee who is respected in this case. I have read the biography of the proposed candidate, and I expect that professionally, securely, respecting those laws, but also ethical codes, will carry out their duty. As we've heard from the previous exhibits, the trustee has not always done so. For all this, the SPS parliamentary group supports the proposal to have Milan Marinovic elected as Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59343	Thank you, Mrs. Bukvić. The word is Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59344	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you have already heard from the academics Zukorlic, we from the Justice and Reconciliation Party have an oscillating experience with the current Commissioner who has always been politically motivated. During that period until 2012, when the second regime was on stage and had a brutal relationship with members of the Bosniak national community very palely and very often, almost even inaction with these abuses and violations of legal and constitutional categories, the Trustee never had a clear, unequivocal and direct attitude. Of course, after 2012, this changed somewhat, but we did not have any concrete reaction, not to previous abuses, or to those that happened to our community in the remnants of these regimes. So the constant that occurs is that he has always had political motivation and that he has always been the bearer of some political idea, which is not good for this function and is absolutely incompatible with the powers he has and with the intensities of these two laws that need to be implemented, i.e. whose suitable needs to be specifically looked after. That is why we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and we want and we want and we will and we are firmly convinced that it is time for this to change, that the new Commissioner should be a person who will exercise his powers exclusively professionally and at the service of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to these two laws and when it comes to the absolute protection of information from public importance and information concerning personality data. This rich experience has also brought us some concrete things that we would like to point out on this occasion when it comes to the functioning of this institution, which is that even when the Commissioner makes some kind of decision, it is very difficult and it takes a very long time for a process to come up with some information of public importance. It often takes a year to request some information to come up with a solution, that certain information must be provided to those who seek because the first process refers to the request from the institution, so when the institution rejects it, then you address the Trustee, so the Trustee has time to appeal and then asks the institution, so that institution gets a deadline of a month or two to deliver the information, so if he does not then warn of silence, then if he does not give the information, he brings a measure and punishment that are of quality. However, you are in a situation where these penalties and measures cannot be implemented because they are all declared incompetent in the case of, say, as was the case with the complaint "Sandzak Media" against the city administration of Novi Pazar for the availability of these competitions for the allocation of funds to television and media where everyone has absolutely declared themselves incompetent and ultimately cannot solve the problem at all. Therefore, this would be a unique opportunity and advice to the future trustee to work on the effectiveness of implementing its measures, i.e. to seek the moderation, and if changes and additions to the law are needed, so that he can really do his job in a quality and efficient way, and in this way be of benefit to the citizens, especially since we still have some of the remains of the past that are undefined, which are still trying in some way to abuse their former ties, and especially as we have heard from fellow public officials, MPs in some political or other accounts, and very often of some unconscious journalists are targeted at the various kinds of abuses of their private lives, the lives of their family members, etc. The trustee should also have a more concrete and efficient operation. It is simple, however the right of each individual of each group should be protected by public officials from getting into what is not and should not be touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59345	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59346	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the Committee on Culture and Information in accordance with Article 30. The law on free access to information of public importance has been proposed by Milan Marinovic for the Trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data. For the Commissioner, I will remind, in accordance with the Law, a person with recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights is elected. The trustee must meet the conditions for working in state authorities, that he has completed law school and that he has at least 10 years of working experience, which is mentioned by the candidate and has. The Law on free access to information of public importance established the Commissioner for Public Information as an independent state body independent of the exercise of its competence and in order to exercise the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities. In the exercise of its competence, the Commissioner, by law, will not seek or receive orders or instructions from the state authorities and other persons and the Trustee cannot be called to account for the opinion he has delivered or the proposal he has made in the exercise of his authority. The proposed candidate is tasked with carrying out his duty independently, independently and responsibly in accordance with the provisions of the law, in order to help raise transparency and openness in the work of the authorities. According to the Report of the Commissioners to whom the situation in 2018 ended on 22 December 2018, including the relationship between the competent authorities and their representatives, it states that 2018 was the year with the most challenges for the Trustee for 14 years of his existence, and at the same time and years with the most extensive work. The situation, according to him, is such that the right to free access to information of public importance in Serbia has benefited greatly, but it has been very difficult to achieve without the confidence. For the past 10 years, the main problem in the area of protection of personal data was the legal framework. This, above all, was mirrored in the incomplete alignment of the internal legal framework with the relevant international standards, and this is one of the tasks for the Trustee, which I am sure we will choose in the voting day if proposed by the Committee on Culture and Information. According to the assessment of the previous Trustee, the situation in the exercise of rights and freedom to access information of public importance and the right to the protection of personal data in 2018 could not be characterised as satisfactory, and the proposed candidate for the Trustee is to ensure that knowledge in the field of right to access information of public importance and the right to protection of personal data, in order to improve the degree of exercise of these rights in the Republic of Serbia, so that the next report of the Trustee in the exercise of the right of free access to information from public importance and the right to protection of personal data is satisfactory. It certainly complies with the legal provisions of independence and independence. It should not create an impression like the Commissioner who stopped the mandate on December 22nd to make an impression in the public that he is more prone to the opposition. At the end of his term, there should be some dissatisfaction with both the government and the opposition, because only then will he perform his duty in accordance with the law and in the interest of all the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59347	Thank you, Mrs. Marash. Now the word has Dragan Jovanovic. He's not there. Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59348	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members of Parliament, the topic of today's parliamentary debate of this assembly session is extremely important since it is about selecting the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against public importance and the protection of personal data. The established Institute of Information Commissioners from public importance and protection of personal data is a feature of democratic societies, as it represents a kind of public control over the work of state authorities. To remind us, the Trustee Institute in Serbia was established in accordance with the 2004 Law on Free Access to Public Information, as a free state body, independent of the exercise of its responsibilities, with the aim of ensuring the right to access information of public importance. In addition, it should be borne in mind first and foremost that the Constitution of our country guarantees all our citizens the right to be truthful, fully and timely in all matters of public importance, and in particular is guaranteed the right of every individual to access the data that is owned to say so, state institutions and bodies entrusted with performing public functions in accordance with the law. In this sense, the role and function of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection is extremely important in every democratic society, and therefore also in our country, because it is, in fact, a protection of human rights, as a civilizational asset, which has been signed among other things in all the international documents that our country has signed and ultimately verified, or ratified. With the protection of the right to free access to information of public importance, it is an extremely important function of the Commissioner that at the same time protects the right to privacy of persons. By law on the protection of personal data, which has been applied since 2009, the Trustee has been competent in matters concerning the protection of personal data. What I particularly want to point out is that the practice so far has shown unequivocally that the Commissioner for Public Information is an extremely important institution that provides and provides greater public service in the work of the authorities, starting from local to top state levels and for 15 years, as far as this institution exists in our country, has been responsible for more than 100,000 demands from our citizens. I will remind you that at the previous session, we discussed the annual report of the Commissioner for 2018 and that we learned from that report that only last year the Trustee, i.e. this institution solved more than 14,000 cases. What we also learned from this report is that it is quite certain that a large number of information of public importance would not be available to citizens without the interface of the Trustees and that is, in fact, what practically means the exceptional importance and usefulness of the existence of this institution. I also want to point out that when we talk about the Trustee, it is extremely important, important, important, to be a person of personal and professional integrity, with adequate professional qualifications, but also with envious work experience. It must be a person who will be a top professional immune to all kinds of political and other non-professional influences in making decisions on citizens' demands. I believe that these are the very qualities that were recognised when Mr. Milan Marinovic, the President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, was proposed as a candidate for the new Commissioner, and that these were actually the reasons why the Committee on Culture and Information, Mr. Marinovic, proposed to the future trustee. From Mr. Marinovic, given the references recommended for this function, I think we can rightly expect an extremely high-quality future trustee who will be committed to further improving the work of this institution, but who at the same time will also be a reliable and faithful support for all our citizens in achieving their Constitution of guaranteed rights. Due to all this, the SPS parliamentary group is providing strong support to the institution of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personality data, as well as the candidate for the new Commissioner, Mr Milan Marinovic, because we are confident that this is in the best interest of all our citizens and our society in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59349	Thank you. Now the word has been made by MP Nikola Savic. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the old Commissioner for information of public importance and the protection of personality data and, of course, the choice of a new Commissioner. Basically, this represents the realisation of human rights and freedom to come up in a smooth way with something that interests them and what they think is important to them. For this reason, it is very important that people, citizens, have free access to information of public importance. Why? Well, it's known that the lack of real information slows down reasonableness and promotes unreasonableness, so we have a lot of things we wouldn't want to have in our society. Freedom means the same thing to a man that makes bread dry. There are various definitions of freedom, and one of them is that it is an opportunity to live in harmony with your perception of the world. This notion of the world can be wrong without distorting freedom. So it's not the most important idea of the world here, but it's the most important form of knowledge or knowledge that leads to this and that concept of the world. If knowledge is below the required minimum, then instead of free action, we have a mechanical function that most often depends on someone's opinion, and at best depends on some objective, or unforeseen circumstances. Today we have a situation not only with us but also in the world that most people are unable to create their own idea of freedom. That's why there are more reasons. Someone doesn't think about this, someone doesn't want to think, someone doesn't have time for this, and some people just aren't up to it. The easiest thing to accept for granted is to adopt several common postulates and axioms and solve the problem in this way. But if it's like this, then it turns out that a man voluntarily gives up something that may not matter to him, but that's what he thinks. If so, then the man himself, the person, the individual voluntarily descends to a lower civilizational level. There's always one major dilemma, and there's a question of why a man accepts someone else's opinion and what someone's freedom is based on to impose his opinion on someone else. There are many answers, but one of the most significant and most important answers, that such a form of freedom is always based on some kind of force. However, we know that where there is a force, there is no talking about individual freedoms. Then it turns out that freedom is in force. In our experience, however, we know that asphyxiation of freedom does not lead anywhere. On the other hand, we also know that absolute freedom leads to that same result. Both of these extreme cases are equally successful in suffocating everything worth it. The understanding of freedom in all is different, but they are essentially the same goal. So their goal is common. The most important thing is that a man can explain his freedom on his logical level. Great questions can only be asked by great minds, but it is known that the greatest freedom becomes, arises and occurs in ideological choices. We have a situation where, for example, a man is found in a high position, he thinks by nature that his actions are not subject to a negative assessment. This brings the modern, liberal, democratic world to a standstill, and that is one of the reasons why totalitarian regimes are created. That's why today we have a lot of people calling out who knows what and who knows where, and they're not even aware of it. We are witnesses of this and here in our country, we have a lot of those who think that the only solution for us is to go out on the street and solve the problem, and that's how we solve the problem of those who think that and who act that way. These things do not come from the great mind, but from a great misunderstanding. Experience tells us that when someone claims they're willing to sacrifice themselves to save their country, but on condition that someone pays for it, that someone didn't come to save anything, he just came looking for a job, a kind of job to look for arrest. An ordinary man can't see it, only those people who do it can see it. People today come across great truths every day, but they move on like nothing happened. The man is similar to the bottles, he carries in himself what they, conditionally speaking, have filled him. Today, the form of manipulative manipulation is such that no one is able to oppose well-designed professional manipulation. But besides that, most people instinctively feel that something is wrong, but they can't understand what's wrong. As much as we explain to the people, the people can only understand as much as they are able, so that figuratively, however much water we pour into the glass, only one glass can fit in it. However, any meaningful struggle for rights, for the truth, for justice is not in vain, and even when it seems in vain, it is the sowing of seeds that will eventually bear fruit. But let me go back a little more specifically to this future Commissioner Marinovic of ours. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we have no direct knowledge based on which it can be discredited, disqualified, etc. However, it is still not proof that Milan Marinovic will be a good and successful public information trustee. We had here mentioned Rodoljub Šabić, who had been doing the job for 17 years. But I remember, and probably all of you, times when this ruling majority is, so members of this regime, when they talked about Rodoljub Šabic the best. And then something happened, and now we have a situation to tell all the worst about him. Of course, we share your opinion in the SRS, but there is still some fear that maybe this trustee or some future one will experience the same fate. So there must be some principle on which such sensitive things will be avoided. My colleague, Verica Radeta, spoke a lot in her presentation on the functioning of NGOs. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, we have a huge number of NGOs working in the most direct way against their country, against the state of Serbia. And many of these NGOs represent an enemy soldier in their own background. That soldier is ready to shoot you in the back the moment he gets a warrant. Now, the job of this trustee and the people of the government, various ministries, etc., should be to defile you and those, because, indeed, at first sight, they may not be so dangerous, but believe me, they're much more dangerous, these information weapons that they send through various media that control and other things, they're much more dangerous than those classic weapons. So I suggest that members of this government, members of the regime, pay attention to the fact that such NGOs are being put under control, and, of course, that might not be nice to say, some should be banned. Indeed, it is not normal for a journalist who works and lives in Serbia to be a citizen of Serbia, who writes about a leaf coming out of Serbia, of course, is this Snow White Congradin, to say - well, I live in a state that committed genocide. There, she complains to someone there, and she's miserable about living in a state that committed genocide. If she really thinks it, if she doesn't do it for money or any other reason, well, if she doesn't like that country, there's a country in the world, 200 and something, I mean about 202 states, if you don't like the state, everyone's free to ask to live wherever they want. So, some things and some phenomena must stand in the way and I hope that this, or future trustee, Mr Milan Marinovic, will be more successful than his predecessor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59351	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Now the word has been given by the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, as I said at the outset, I would like to bring out some facts for the public, talk about the pressures that have been made on the board members, the proposals and all that has been the ultimate objective of obstructing this process. They repeat once again, with the process of proposing the Commissioner, it was awaited, and these were the main objections, that six months were waiting, that all parliamentary groups had enough time to look at the work of the previous Commissioner, so that the election of a new trustee would raise the work of an independent state body to a much greater and more significant level. It can be concluded from the debate of the MPs so far that everyone has really taken the best view of the work of the previous Commissioner and I have nothing to add or take away. It is indicative that these critics of the length of time it took to implement the process and to start the process of selecting the Trustee raised their voice against the seven-day deadline when the procedure was launched, because it is now suddenly too short for the application to be submitted. It's just amazing, they haven't done anything in six months, and then it's seven days short to file only. Also, on several sides, pressure has been made to change the trustee's electoral procedure and to enable candidates to be proposed to all possible alternative actors in public life, political parties, citizens' associations, NGOs, registered and unregistered alliances, even proposing the possibility of self-candidation. All due to the alleged high transparency of the trustee's election. Of course, the first reason for this pointless proposal is that we would probably come to an opportunity, and that was the plan, that all those who have graduated from law school, private or state, and have some working experience, run for office, so that we have several hundred candidates, and then we all spend our mandate, and especially the committee, on the examination of procedures, to check the correctness of the documentation and the conversation with the candidates. On the other hand, those who asked for a change in the election procedure, all voiced their strong support for the previous trustee, so we have examples that they generally told the predecessor that he had raised the institution to the highest scale, that it was ideal and that he contributed to the freedom of democracy in Serbia. I ask these geniuses -- how is it possible that such a perfect trustee can be chosen in a completely non-democratic and non-transparent and completely wrong procedure? Two-faced is unprecedented. People would say, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. Obviously, there's only one intention in all of this and all of these unsuspecting proposals -- that there's obstruction at all costs. They do not care about the trustee, or information of public importance, even less about the protection of personal data, but only about personal promotion and the destabilising of state authorities. Legendary Pavle Vuisic best characterized these freedom and justice fighters with words - some people in life leave something behind only when they squat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59353	Thank you, colleague Krlic. Now the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. He's not there. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59354	Tell me how much time is left for our MP group. (President: 16 minutes and 33 seconds. Here you go. ) We just thought that you had a nice start this year, given that today on July 24th, Rodoljub Šabić expired the term of the trustee in December of last year, and instead of seeing whether this Institute for the Protection of Personality Information needed Serbia, as the institute was introduced, said your colleague 17 years ago, you had to accept the European Commission's remarks, it might have missed someone today to say, but in May, and that was one more thing, that you must urgently choose a new Commissioner. Now the question is whether you're all doing it on an o-arm, what you would say about me in Shumadia, and in general, as people say, when your mentors from the European Union order you to do it, or you personally think that something will happen to Serbia by choosing a new trustee. After all, and in that short period of time that the SRS was not present in this parliament, and we were able to follow, for the entire time your rule to you at all until perhaps seven, eight months ago did not bother this Rodoljub Sabic or what he was doing. You have easily gone beyond all that he has done, and I will also say some concrete examples that are deeply intruding into the constitutional order of this country and the security of individuals, particularly members of the Serbian Army who have made an unmistakable contribution to defending their country from the Cypriot terrorists. You forgot all this, only when he went a little more to be exposed and worked for traitors and NGOs, such as Natasa Kandic and others who hunt Serbs for the interests of the UN tribunal and perform anti-Serbian propaganda, when he began to investigate the case so-called. And you saw that it was a person who couldn't do it as an independent body, which is the function of the Trustee, or should be, to do the job. By contrast, Sabic abused the function that you gave him in that later term, that is, in the mandate and in your rule to do, to put aside those who are propaganda and who, by policy against Serbia and all their activities, want to prove themselves, or to impose themselves as some alternative to your regime. You had to be a lot louder, you had to ask various other state authorities for not responding to such behaviour. Why didn't you do it at board meetings? Here, there is Mr. Kulic, there are all of you who, from the ruling coalition, could say – how dare one of you ask that the Ministry of Energy, which is run by Mr. Antić, a member of the SPS, gives information, because that is what Shabic wants, that is, by the Radio "Free Europe", and you know that everyone who is against Russia, that is, our strategic co-operation on Russian gas re-export. And you're nothing. Says Sabic – oh, I am, and all the media are publishing it, and then you didn't mind, I filed a report and I punished the Ministry of Energy for not delivering that information. Please, gentlemen, you have failed to allow Serbia, in addition to this Law on the availability of information of public importance and protection, to have a much more important law to be respected now and to be followed by all those who perform certain public functions, which is the Law on the secrecy of data, which also defines what information is, or information, and depending on how important this information is for the state of Serbia, for certain ministries, is primarily meant by the military, the police and other strategic tasks carried out by state authorities and institutions, that no one can think of sticking his nose where it doesn't belong. When we say so, we are not afraid that some halabuca will now rise against us, because it is known in one sovereign state where there is such a law that one can do and cannot do. But this Shabic, who, again and again, did not bother you all these years, asked for certain information, imagine, for whom, for Natasa Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund. Now, let's ask you again, for who knows which time, it can be a rewarding question for one of you – where is Zagorka Dolovac, a republican public prosecutor? Wasn't that the same Zagorka Dolovac four years ago, or the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, filed a lawsuit against Shabic's solution, which ordered the Ministry of Defence to provide copies of documents for the humanitarian law fund, for an organisation that works directly for the enemies of the Serb people, from which you imagine Shabic will ask it to find out that Goran Jeftovic was appointed as the staff officer of the Pristina Corps of Serbia, i.e. the SRJ during our fight with the Cypriot terrorists in 1999. And he says by the time he was there, that's all Sabic wrote and asked, as a trustee, to be delivered to him, and it's been five years since then, and you've kept your mouth shut. It was only since December, and when he put himself directly and openly, of course he was always theirs, but when he began to speak clearly about it and to propagate the activities of these unfortunates from the Alliance for Change and these others, Gilas and his satellites, he bothered you. And you don't mind, gentlemen, when he does things like this that go directly, it's a direct subversive action, how else can I call him against the legal order against the security of this country and our people? Well, you didn't think that she needed it so that with a neighbor, if at all with that character someone wanted to drink coffee, so that along the way, it would give such information to those who would arrest Serbs and members of the Army then Yugoslavia at KIM, to force fear and say – well, you, for defending your country, now see how you will go, because that's what Shabic and Natasa Kandic want. Then we come to the fact that it is absurd that in addition to the law that regulates the secrecy of data in the country, then the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the right of every citizen to be informed, in addition to the Act of Inspectorate Control. You know, he's not on his own, and there's the intertwination and the inspection control bill, when it comes to the opinion of that trustee, now and this one of your marinovic, this future one. We have other laws, we have the Law of Administrative Procedure. You know, when a dispute is being conducted in front of the Administrative Court, the same opinion of the court and the Commissioners doesn't have to be treated at all. He may have one opinion, and the court may have a different opinion, and in this case, you should have insisted that Mrs. Dolovac and her co-workers from the D.A.'s office should have gone public and said what, let's say, was with this lawsuit until the end. Do you know what happened, do you know Professor Ljubisha, I see you follow closely? You don't know. Does anyone know who's interested? He doesn't know. What do we do now? Let's just let it happen to all traitors to do what they want, to say this freak again, Mr. Marinkovic, Congradin, says there was genocide in Srebrenica, and then, you know, it's an attack on a woman, please, on equality, and so on? Then what did you need from that Brankica Jankovic? You see that one's not normal, either? You chose her, and you're fighting those who are attacking the state of Serbia, for the president of the state, for Alexander Vukic, for his children, for his inventions, for what an abomination, so I must say. And what doesn't answer then is that Brankica Jankovic and say – you know what, because she's the Trustee of Equality, how it's possible to say such things to children, how it's possible to brand someone's family in that way. No, when it's good for her, then it's okay, and when it's up to the European Commission, Fabrizia, or whoever's watching her, like you're under constant supervision, then she'll say, well, you know what, this Chongradin can't be insulted, so it's an insult to a woman, so it's a destruction of equality, calling for some hate. Well, you know what, if you don't come to your senses soon and you don't realize that now after this summer session comes a heavy fall for Serbia, where you're going to decide on very important issues, and above all on Kosovo and Metohija when all these are now being reassembled through new, eventually and through a new European Commission representative and through ultimatums that will come before Serbia, then it might be too late. And if it weren't too late, look and respect the Constitution of this country, stick to the law that protects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. Keep in mind that you do not just let the days and months pass, and that against the responsible people who have broken the law, do not file an appropriate application and as soon as possible, as the ruling majority, initiate that we have an amendment to the Code of Criminal Code, that you obey the SRS position which is a position for the state and for future generations and that anyone who dares to say that in Srebrenica was a genocide being adequately punished that the state of Serbia should punish anyone who makes such an excuse and defends the country's interests as this people expect you. If you let it pass, the month, two, three, well, now, by the end of this term, the next election will be. You know what? Then we're like a country of choice to anyone who can boss around here, blackmail, do whatever they want. Be perseverant. Finally, you are responsible people, I suppose, back in every environment, there are MPs who are also with KIM, so don't miss the chance to say at these internal meetings – it can't be that way, we have to deal with everyone who works against the interests of the state of Serbia and its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59355	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. It's a business thing. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59356	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I think you were under obligation, Mr. Chairman, to react when harsh SNS lies were made, that the SNS did not react to the harmful action of Rodoljub Sabic while performing the role of the Commissioner for Public Information. I have a duty to say that's not true. So, the SNS reacted first and most strongly, condemned such behaviour and proved that Rodoljub Sabic was no expert, no independent expert, but an ordinary politician, a politician, that he was not doing his job in a good way, but was using his function for daily and political purposes, on Twitter's warrant, that he tweeted during the working days, always on the side of those who do not want good neither the Serbian people nor the state. After all, who has been exposed all this time to the most monstrous attacks by this particular Rodoljub Šabić? I will tell you who was exposed, Vukic, as president of the SNS, but also as president of the state, the Serbian government and SNS MPs. Remember what Sabic tweeted every day about the head of our parliamentary group, Aleksandr Martinovic, who was the vomit, which were the monstrous insults of Sabic. Who first here has established and condemned, in the end, the fact that the trustee institution has turned into a service of various CRIKs, BIRNs, CISs, Natasha Kandic, you mentioned, and everyone else? The Serbian Progressive Party reacted first and condemned and proved that it did. And, please, I think you really should react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59357	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word has a People's Messenger. Natasha Jovanovic. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59358	I've got to get to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, Section 1 because a former colleague called, and I would, otherwise, have the right to a replica. We are obliged here to honor the dignity of the congregation and to express the truth. You would certainly have warned me, Mr. Chairman, if that injury had occurred in my presentation. I was telling the truth and I called on the official document of the Republic Public Prosecutor and I asked you, that's a question for you, and that's why I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't answer me, and you say, "I don't know, or I'll find out," so I'll let you know during the session, where Zagorka Dolovac is. Can you, as vice president of the Assembly, who currently presides to seek such information? Yes, you can. And nice to answer why so far the state of Serbia has not acted, i.e. the competent prosecutor's office on this. Let me tell you again, it's classified. Do you remember the report by Rodoljub Sabic, when this Mandić woman was 10 days ago? Do you remember what it was all about? Gentlemen, how we were getting planes and other equipment from the Russian Federation, how much it cost. Why are we telling you all this? Imagine that we are now choosing this new trustee and that he is not doing it, to warn of such a thing, because you never know who will turn the turkey upside down overnight. Right? Well, you've had some of them in your first years of your reign, too, so where are they now? There they are on the track where they are here, so I don't remind you of those names, and they were ministers in the government first after 2012. So if you say what is the secret information and the Privacy Act and what is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, to insist on it all the time, don't say that your eyes were always wide open when it comes to these traitors. Well, if they were, you'd say what a congradin, what a riot, what a woman, what a man. Well, anyone who's anywhere... At all, she talked about it and a colleague of Radeta's, a public figure, you know? Secondly, this Brankica Jankovic of yours, when it is said, is a violation of personality, of equality, it is said that someone is not insulting minority members, that they are not mocking people who, God forbid, are sick, children and so on, and that someone is a public figure, so it works in a newspaper that publishes the adverts of the Shiplar, so on. States, so it says things like that, so don't, please, then say that you have spoken in every way and in every way against such phenomena. You're not, because you're afraid of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59359	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. You can ask the Institute of Questions and Notifications tomorrow. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I asked you. I don’t know and respect that autonomy, all three levels of government, therefore, judicial, legislative and executive. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Right to replication, mentioned by name, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59360	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I usually try to track down all my colleagues during their presentation, as well as my colleague Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. A lot of things she said, I support but I admit that the question she gave me, that my answer was negative, that I didn't know it all. However, no one can honor us that we supported Sabic and that we supported many of those who do not think well of Serbia, who do not work in Serbia's interest. On the contrary, both me and my colleagues here have always spoken against it and we felt that the obligation of every citizen, especially those who are in public office, is to work in Serbia's interest. I, on the matter of Shabic, cannot praise his activities, the only thing that was positive for me was in this report that we had a few days ago, the initiation of fellow Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, to draw attention to him and to this other Commissioner that MPs are not rags, and not magical rags, but to those common rags with which to wipe the floor and dust, and I believe that this is the beginning of restoring dignity to MPs and the Assembly, and I believe in the people's period that together with my colleague Gojkovic, we will all make it really clear the name and that MPs are brought to their place as they like. I can't have ministers, I can't have state secretaries, I can't have officials acting like we own some, we choose them, and they'll be in charge with us. Therefore, I respect what my colleague Jovanovic said, but I do not accept many SNS matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59361	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of the Father's session as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59362	Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59363	I'm glad you followed, Mr. Arsic. Well, it's not like that. I have to remind you now of 2016. At the time, it may not have seemed to you that Vuk Jeremic would start a campaign and a policy that was not in line with Serbia's interests. On the contrary, before that, we had warned you and published the book "Vikelix reports me" to everything he asked for, what he was doing against the interests of the states and the people, that he clearly said in those dispatches that he believed Kosovo was lost. In 2016, he even invited journalists to make it as visible as possible and to make it public. He requested a meeting with a former friend, I hear, Ljubise Stoimirovic, Tomislav Nikolic, then the current president of the Republic, to ask him for support in four eyes for re-election as president of the UN General Assembly. Am I telling the truth? I'm talking. Was it for you, then, Vuk Jeremic, that he is today, and what we warned about, I think in 2012 or 2013, when we published the book "Vikeliks Reports Me", where it was clear after the fall of Boris Tadic's regime what he and Vuk Jeremic were doing and how they co-operated with the enemies of the Serbian people? Was Sasa Radulovic with you government minister? Yes, it is. (Alexander Markovic: No. Now, don't, please, defend yourself against the defenseless. Did you choose Rodoljub Šabić? Yes, it is. (Alexander Markovic: No. Who chose him? Oh, no, please. When was the last time it was re-election? Perhaps you weren't, Mr. Markovic, the MP then... (Alexander Markovic: Year 2011) What? Please don't... You've been doing it all along...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59364	My colleagues, no personal address, and you bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59365	You've been supporting him all along, nominating him for everything he does. He hasn't bothered you in so many years, and now we're telling you again... (President: Time.) Here, I'm done. You're responsible too, Mr. Arsic. Everything Rodoljub Šabić did, half and more, it goes to your soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59366	Each of us bears responsibility for what he does. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59367	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen, this month, perhaps two weeks ago, we had on the agenda a report on the work of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection and I then began my address with the words of Alexander Vukic. I will quote him again: “I am ready to defend every man’s right in this land. ” I suggest that all officials behave like that, including those at the head of independent bodies. I expect a constructive debate today. I sincerely hope that Mr. Marinovic is following this debate, because I think it will certainly be helpful for him to do what the MPs say in the National Assembly, that he will be helped to do the work tomorrow. MPs who spoke of the previous Commissioner's actions were criticised on N1 TV as they dealt with, for God's sake, the character and the work of Rodoljub Sabic. You see, I think it's much better to learn from other people's mistakes, because then we'll make sure that the abuses don't happen, or they won't happen again. It is evident that we have had a Commissioner who has fully devised the fact that he is headed by an independent state body, whose powers are laid down by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. He instead of doing his job, he mostly abused his position for, so I can say, two things. First, to deal with politics and secondly to openly lead the hunt against Alexander Vukic, the SNS, even the SNS MPs, the Hijka against the Serbian government. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, could anyone who was a party member, minister, MP and vice president of the National Assembly be independent in their work? Is it good for the state, is it good for the citizens of Serbia that for someone who will lead an independent regulatory body we set up such a man? During the rule of the former regime, it was kind of normal. They deployed party personnel into executive, legislative power, but even deployed them into judicial power. They also deployed them into regulatory bodies to control absolutely everything, in addition to using it to expand membership and then we have a situation where no one is interested in citizens, and that everything is of interest to politics and that everything is done only in order to satisfy personal interests. That's what Rodoljub Shabic was like. Why, then, do we not have the right to talk about this in the National Assembly, about a man who was told by newspapers that he had abused his position, about someone who called SNS messengers thieves and led the hunt against Alexander Vukic? Why didn't he criticize the former regime? Why didn't he treat them with insults, but he only started doing it after 2012, when the SNS came to power? The answer is, in fact, simple - because it was nothing more than an activist of the former regime. Therefore, I want the new Commissioner to deal with all the things that the previous Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic did not do. I want him not to use his position in any way for all that his position was used by the previous Trustee, I wish him success in his work, but first and foremost I want him to return to this independent body the role that she truly deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59368	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59369	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the town of Leskovac as a responsible local self-government in his work performs very transparently. On the official web presentation of the city, there are data on the functioning of the city's administration and its departments, city enterprises. There is also the Statute of the City, Informationer on Work made in 2013, which is updated once a month. Transparency in the work is also seen in the functioning of the Leskovec City Assembly, since all session sessions of the Assembly can be monitored by video transmission on the city of Leskovec, and transfers can be monitored in the city itself, throughout Serbia and abroad. It can also be traced to two local television stations. The town of Leskovac is the only city in Serbia, next to Novi Sad, which introduced and implemented the e-parliament system, a software system project for working with documentation and electronic management of the City Assembly sessions. I would stress that by introducing an electronic administration in Leskovac citizens very quickly and simply can, through a system of 48 hours, report a communal problem. This system provides several different ways to report communal problems. Within the shortest time period of the public service, public enterprises are on the ground, and within 48 hours, citizens can get an answer on the status of problem resolution. In addition to the 48-hour system, a virtual parent is available to Leskovec citizens. Citizens of Leskovec can fill in and forward a request for copies and credentials from home books and books of citizens headed for the town of Leskovac. For those living abroad, a virtual mother for abroad is also available. Also, the citizens of Leskovci have at their disposal an electronic register of administrative procedures that enables quick and reviewed access to information on how to apply for rights under local self-government. Afterwards, citizens may monitor and search ads and other content and in public procurement procedures a united procedure as a procedure or a set of procedures in the area of construction carried out by the city's administration on behalf of and at the expense of the party from obtaining the necessary conditions and other documents from republican and local public undertakings. Speaking of information of public importance, the city of Leskovac acts in this regard under the Public Information Act. A person who responds to a request in the city administration shall be authorised. In 2018, 105 requirements were met in accordance with the Law, while 20 applications were submitted today in 2019. A form for access to information of public importance that all interested parties can use has been set up on the site of the town of Leskovec in information on work. As for the transparency of the work of Leskovec management, all activities by the Mayor of Leskovec, Dr. Goran Cvetanovic, funerals with his associates were followed by local media and correspondents. Calls are also being sent to all media teams on the territory of Leskovci, surrounding cities, municipalities and media from Serbia with which communication has been achieved. Communications with the media, but also with all citizens is constant. All activities and conferences with texts and photographs are published on the official web presentation and all social networks, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram. Leskovac is a local self-government whose well-being comes first. Therefore, transparency and provision of information to citizens is of great importance. It is important that citizens know how and why their money is spent, and they can be informed daily. In the voting day, I will support the proposal that Milan Marinovic be elected Commissioner for Public Information, as well as protection of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59370	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59371	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, respected fellow MPs and MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma, in voting day will support the applicant for information of public importance and protection of personality data, Mr Milan Marinovic, Judge of the Criminal Court, or President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade for the reason that his biography is impressive, for the reason that he meets all the prescribed conditions of law, for the reasons that the committee has voted for this candidate by a vast majority, for the reason that we hope to honorably perform the role of the Commissioner in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because for SNS the focus of interest and all that we do, it is the protection of the best interest of the citizens of Serbia and the raising of the standard of living of all its citizens. I must also point out that the availability of public information and how important it is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that all those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been prevented by the state authority in any way from obtaining information that is relevant to their daily life-long functioning or to the exercise of some of their rights, of course have the right to appeal to the Commissioner and that the Trustee should and must step forward and protect the interests of the citizens. I hope that we will choose Mr. Marinovic and that he will work on these principles of protecting the rights of citizens' interests, but I cannot look back on the previous Commissioner, Rodoljub Sabic, who did everything but protect the rights and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I'm not saying it by heart, I'm saying it on the basis of his reports that were discussed earlier on the committees in charge, but which we had the opportunity to discuss here a few days ago in the tide. It is interesting that two-thirds of Rodoljub Sabic's actions were followed by the application of the lawyer's office, either according to the humanitarian law fund and so on, the humanitarian law fund again and, of course, some independent, some NGOs, then the Association of Journalists, CIS, KRIK, BIRN and so on. Interestingly, the previous Commissioner was only interested in the most sensitive security issues, such as how many helicopters and planes were purchased in the Ministry of Defence, the MUP. Of course, he was interested and imagine what MP workers in Kosovo and Metohija are doing. It seems he forgot that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija and that the protection of their safety, their safety, is of invaluable importance, in the end and the protection of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia is of invaluable importance. I must also point out that Rodoljub Sabic was interested today in helicopters and airplanes that were purchased by the Serbian and Serbian military, in order of course to strengthen the security capacity of all our citizens, to be safer and safer, but he was in no way interested in melting tanks at the time of the former government, in Jelizara, for cheap money. He also wasn't interested in the contract that Gilas signed to build, for God's sake, a daily stay for children in the pioneer town, when he usurped the largest, most elite country in the Kostunica to acquire his first million. Of course, the trustee was not interested in invisible persons, and there were about 30,000 at the time of the government of the yellow DOS company. Rodoljub Sabic came as a politician and the politician stayed to the end. That can't possibly be the new trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59372	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59373	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will have to agree with my colleagues that in the past, we have had a very bad experience with the Commissioner for Information from public importance and protection of personal data. When we discussed Mr Sabic's report here, we found out from what he wrote himself, that he worked exclusively for the benefit of the media and organisations that often put Serbia's operations in danger, asking for information about national security and all that under the slogan of independence and freedom of speech. We all advocate independence and freedom of speech, just being independent doesn't mean that we need to undermine our own state and our own people, and in favour of foreign embassies that you offer in exchange for a little power and a lot of money. This is inadmissible and we must insist that by the reputation of the president of the state, anyone performing a state, i.e. Public function, directs its operation exclusively to the benefit of Serbian citizens. It's only right and honorable. Serbian citizens express their views in the elections and evaluate everyone's work. We are a land that appreciates work and diligence, which knows that only work can accomplish something. As for the future Commissioner, I wish him a lot of success in his work and that he performs his duties with honor and integrity, to speak freely and to be independent, but never to endanger the state of Serbia, as his predecessor did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59374	The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59375	Thank you, Chairman. As a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, I was honored to meet the candidates for the Trustees, and I have to show here that on the Committee, those who proposed before DS Ms. Neven Ruzic and the other promoters did not come to defend their candidate, which I don't think makes any sense. If they had already proposed someone, they should have come and delivered an opinion on their candidate. As for candidate Milan Marinovic, our candidate in front of the SNS, his experience in the field of protection and the promotion of human rights is really valuable. As a judge for violations and judges of a misdemeanor court in 1998, he continued and directly protected human rights, regulated and protected by regulations, which are prescribed by violations from all areas of life. In particular, as judge of the Belgrade Criminal Court, he acted in judicial proceedings under the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Data and Personality. He was a member of the task force that made the draft code on alarming officers, assessed as one of the best laws to regulate the protection of alarming officers in the world. As Belgrade's longtime President of the Criminal Court, as a responsible person, he acted on requirements for free access to information of public importance, while at the same time respecting the protection of personal data. During the evaluation of this judge's work, it was considered extremely successful. In a conversation with him on the Committee, he even pointed out a very good co-operation with the Commissioner and was very focused on the institution's problem. However, if we now pull the parallel with the former today, Commissioner Sabic, whose biography points to the fact that from day one he was a politician and remained a politician and at least the Commissioner, we can say that politics began to deal with the 1980s, when he served in the government of Ante Markovic as a Undersecretary of legislation. After he was one of the founders of Social Democracy and then joined the Social Democratic Party, from which he joined when he was elected Commissioner for Public Information in 2004. He was a National MP and vice-president of the National Assembly of Serbia, since 19 June 2002 he has been Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose president was Zoran Djindjic. I would like to mention two situations this time, given that some MPs have said that we were protecting Mr. Sabic's work, where first in 2017, in the election for mayor of Belgrade, where he stepped up with his political stance, our president, Maja Gojkovic, told him that he should resign at the Commissioner's post and go to the mayor's campaign. On that occasion, he said the opposition's success in Belgrade is key, electoral control and unity, which is clearly said and on whose side the Trustee has been identified. In 2019, also on 29 March, the former Commissioner for Public Information fell under unexplained circumstances in Sremska Street in Belgrade and hit his head with a sidewalk, making the opposition more welcome to accuse the authorities of assassination. Police determined the exact location where Sabic fell, collected footage, and found that no passing person attacked him on the street. He wrote on his tweet on that occasion - what they did to my city. However, of course, why he fell and knew that this was not the result of any attack, he was all over the evening making an illusion that he was the victim of a political attack by the government, deliberately harassing the public and deliberately throwing a bone into a pack of hyenas, led by Sergi Trifunovic, Baljk and the like. This was also followed by Democrats Zoran Lutanovac, Tamara Tripic and Nada Kolundzija, who condemned the attack on Sabic. Nikola Jovanovic was not missing either. He called for the protest "one out of five million" to be more massive because of the attacks on Sabic, and Sandra Raskovic Ivić said - the attack Rodoljub Sabic is not a miracle, because everyone who thinks differently from Aleksandar Vukic and the advances, the perceptions draw targets at the head. To their respectors and followers, it's an open call to the lynching of the inexperience. I think that all my colleagues in the previous speech, and I, have said enough about the life and work of the former Commissioner Rodoljub Šabić, and I find it very difficult for the new Commissioner Milan Marinovic to continue working in that institution, since he is a very honorable and honest man and I wish him much happiness in his further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59376	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59377	I'll be very brief, Mr. Arsic. We have heard the report from the committee responsible for culture and information, and we have heard from a large number of MPs who have participated in the debate so far why we should choose Mr Marinović as Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. I would start my speech the way I spoke when we adopted the report on the work of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, which is that the future trustee should be all the opposite of Rodoljub Šabić, therefore, that he should not do all that Rodoljub Šabić did and that everything that Rodoljub Sabic did while performing his function and that it was a recipe for sure success and, of course, that in his work he should only adhere to the law, nothing more. Why is this important? Because we had a Commissioner who spent many years, instead of his work, dealing exclusively with daily politics and attacks on Alexander Vukic and the SNS, SNS MPs and the Serbian Government. I belong to that part of the public who never believed when it came to Rodoljub Sabic, that it was some kind of independent expert, some independent expert. Why am I saying that? Because Rodoljub Sabic built his name and biography and his visibility only and exclusively through politics and political parties. We also heard from counterpart Kostic a part of his political biography, and that he was in the government at the time of Ante Markovic, and that he was a senior official of Social Democracy, then of the SDP and that he performed a whole series of important political functions, such as the MP, vice president of the Assembly. I was very young at the time when he was in office from 2001 to 2004, if I was not mistaken, when he was vice president of the Assembly, but I followed the assembly meetings and I remember his active role in this parliament, when he was vice president of the National Assembly. I also remember when she was having an affair with Vuk Obradovic, who was president of the Social Democracy, in the affair and Rodoljub Sabic played a very embarrassing role, practically betrayed him as party president, kidnapped his party and was a senior official of the new party that was formed. Well, then overnight he decided that he was no longer a politician, he had declared himself an independent expert and became a trustee for information of public importance, but essentially he never stopped being a conceit, he never stopped belonging to that dossistic flock, which he just formally came out of, because he needed to build an image of an independent expert in order to be the head of a very important body like the Commissioner for Public Information. What was particularly disturbing to me, we talked about it a little earlier, when I had reported to the Rules of Procedure, which is that the Public Information Commissioner's institution turned into a service of various importance, as Mrs Kostic said earlier, various CISs, BIRNs, KRIKs, Natasha Kandić, "woman in black" and who knows who else. What bothered me, too, was that he tweeted during my working hours, mainly bringing attacks to the expense of SNS MPs, the government of Serbia, the president of the Republic, etc. So, he was a day-to-day politician. It also bothered me that in the most monstrous way, he insulted the messengers of the people. The reason for this was that, in particular, when it comes to Aleksandar Martinovic, the head of our parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, asked questions about spending money. So he asked the question – how does Rodoljub Sabic spend state money? And instead of getting an answer, he got a salvo of the most monstrous insults and I find it extremely unacceptable and that's something that's unacceptable in performing a public function. From all this I have stated so far, I want to underline that it is necessary for the future trustee, Mr. Marinović, not to do what Mr. Sabic was doing, and that he is doing exactly what Mr. Sabic did not do and that it is a recipe for sure success. And I wish him good luck in the work of his future trustee, Mr. Marinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59378	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59379	Thank you. Today, the choice of the Commissioner for Information is on the agenda and protection of personal data. At the Committee on Culture and Information of three proposed candidates, Milan Marinovic, of the 11 members present, was in front of the SNS, 10 members voted for Mr Milan Marinovic. I would like to point out that this gentleman, with exceptional qualifications, exceptional references, is not a member of the SNS, nor has he ever been in politics, which is of great importance, because the previous gentleman who was until the end of 2018, Mr Sabic, has completely devastated this independent state body. Mr. Milan Marinovic, his colleagues declare him, which is extremely positive and say that it is a gentleman, above all, extremely qualified for his profession, then not to suffer the pressures, that he is responsible, that he is moral, all of these are the references that run him for this place. He needs to restore his reputation to this independent state body. I'm sure this gentleman will. I just have to point out, I need to say a few details from his career. Very soon from the Belgrade City Crimes Judge, the gentleman became President of the Belgrade Criminal Court. He was then chaired by the Chief Committee of the Association of Judges of Criminal Courts, a member of the Judicial Academy Program Council, a deputy member of the Commission for the implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018. Also, the president of the Working Group to analyse the situation and make recommendations to amend the normative framework in order to improve the situation of judges of criminal courts in the Republic of Serbia. Whenever the Commission meets on the results of all judges' work, Mr Milan Marinovic is always extremely successful in performing his duties as judge. It's his qualification. I could do so much more, because there are extremely good references, but I would go back to something that was very devastating by an independent state body, and this is Mr. Sabic's personality and work, fortunately, now the gentleman who retired. This gentleman was a multi-party figure and, not only that, he worked non-stop against the Prime Minister, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, against all the laws that were passed in this assembly. It's simple, the man seemed political. Then, Mr. Sabic is a political figure that has been advertised on all the laws that are completely nonsensical and illegal. Mr. Sabic spent over 207,000 430 dinars to show up. He probably felt that what he had to say was very important, and it was mostly some political connotations. Then he hired people when he was a trustee, the way he liked it. He spent 33m dinars of state money, and among the contracts concluded was the one with the wife of the money supplier Vuk Jeremic. He broke the law, we all know that, because there had to be a contest to get into work. He said it wasn't true, which just means he didn't respect the law and he was a bad lawyer. Now something you may not have known, which is that at the end of August 2012, the NGO "Doctors Against Corruption" warned about the conflict of interest and enormous earnings that the Ombudsman Sasa Jankovic and the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning Rodoljub Sabic adopted through participation in the draft alert law project. The NGO expressed its astonishment with the degree of conflict of interest and abuse in the draft law on the protection of alarmers, which was entrusted to the Commissioner for Public Information and financed by the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of the Netherlands funds of 100,000 euros. The letter found that the monthly earnings of Sabic and Jankovic, as state officials, through these moral and legal unacceptable activities, are up to 17 times the average salary in Serbia. Let us remember, in 2012, the average salary in Serbia was 330 euros, which means that these two gentlemen were then paid, for the entire duration of the project, over 5,000 euros. You're a disgrace! Any, it didn't happen again. I'm sure Mr. Marinovic will restore his dignity to this profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59380	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59381	Article 107, Mr. Arsic, is injured, the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm surprised you didn't react. The previous speaker, praising your candidate and listing what's good, has particularly pointed out two things. One thing Mr. Marinovic is not a member of the SNS... Ljiljana Malusic: Of course. )......................................................................................................... And the other thing is he was never in politics. You say, of course. The lady who spoke earlier still insists on it. I'm asking you, what kind of SNS are you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59382	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. You cannot, through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, replicate with the MPs, and as chairman... Nemanja Sarovic: I am right. You have no right to do that. You have no right to a replica. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59383	Mr Arsic, you have violated Article 27, which says that the chairman of the National Assembly is obliged to lead the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The current Rules of Procedure say that an MP who reports to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I have previously done, should quote which provision has been violated and listed, I have said that it is a Article 107, and that he has the right to explain for up to two minutes which way... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59384	A colleague, Sarovic, was not injured or a member of 27. Rules of Procedure. You spoke to the People's Messengers, not to me. The breach of the Rules of Procedure applies exclusively to Members of Parliament. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting for damage to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59385	Mr. Arsic, I have up to two minutes to explain how the Rules of Procedure was injured, up to two minutes. Not the first time, not the second time, you've already interrupted me after 30 seconds. So, give me that little right that the Rules of Procedure gives. It may take me a little longer to explain how the Rules of Procedure is, but that's the framework that you've defined... (President: What is your violation of the Rules of Procedure now, colleague Sarovic? You have no right to take away my word and deny me... (President: You said it yourself – up to two minutes. )......................................................................................................... the right of business to explain how the Rules of Procedure has been violated. Maybe I'll get to the point in the second minute, and you'll figure it out. (Chairman: Please, the member I hurt? I told you before. Don't interrupt me all the time. Art. 107, 104 and 27. Do you need more? So you can't self-initiately interrupt me or because you don't like the way I explain it. Be so patient, two minutes of everything, it's not much. If you think it's a lot, change the Rules of Procedure, cut to 60 seconds, for 30 seconds, for three seconds, so in one word I explain it, but give it while this Rules of Procedure, respect us as representatives of the opposition that we sit here and respect ourselves, because that's your Rules of Procedure. You've had plenty of time to change it. Thus, the dignity of the National Assembly was injured because the previous speaker said that the candidate was not in politics. It's not politics, and it's not that some MP was dirty in himself, so that eventually, if someone was in politics, was a MP, a representative of the citizens, it disqualifies him to perform a duty. You, as chairman, were obliged to act, for this is how you protect yourself and the National Assembly as an institution. You didn't interrupt her, and you're interrupting me and me trying to give classes. Once you accept your mistake. It's not how it's explained. It cannot be a quality that someone is not a member of a political party. Is that embarrassing? Is that against the law? Is that moral... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59386	Comrade Sarovic, have you read the law? If you had read the law, you would know that political belongings excludes the possibility of running, and that political belongings determine whether you can be a judge or prosecutor, among other things. Now you want to say, through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that colleague Malusic, please, colleague Sarovic, has injured the dignity of the National Assembly because she said that the candidate meets the conditions laid down by law, so you are not normal. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59387	I thank the chairman. We will all agree that we want the Commissioner for Information out of public importance and protection of personal data which is impartial and which is primarily independent in doing its job. We will all agree that we do not want a Commissioner who will spend money on a phone costing 160,000 dinars and on various trips from which Serbian citizens do not have much use. The end of Rodoljub Sabic's mandate will end the 15-year abuse of a state function. I will remind the citizens that Rodoljub Sabić was in the position of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, from 2014 to 2019. Rodoljub Sabic is certainly an example of what all the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data must not and should not do. Rodoljub Sabic was and remained a politician, was a National MP, minister, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and was elected as Commissioner from these political functions, which is certainly unacceptable. Rodoljub Sabic used his post all the time and participated in political developments in Serbia. He clearly participated in social networks without any cover-up, insulted MPs, participated in political shows, muddled Serbia's president and in one word, used his post in the service of politics. With the choice of the new Commissioner, we want first of all to stop the practice of having one trustee have anything to do with politics. The trustee should be a person who is a top professional, who is primarily independent of any potential pressure while doing his job. I believe that these are precisely the qualities that qualify candidate Milan Marinovic, who was proposed by the Assembly Committee on Culture and Information. Milan Marinovic has a rich working biography. As a judge for violations and judges of the Criminal Court since 1998, he has continuously protected human rights. I hope to be honest that he will be elected and will successfully carry out the work of the Trustee, as he has done so far, and that he will first and foremost restore the reputation of the institution to the Trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59388	Thank you. My colleague Sarovic, on what grounds? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Again in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59389	Yes, Mr. Arsic, I've answered the Rules of Procedure again. This time you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly. You're explaining why he wasn't allegedly injured by the Rules of Procedure told me I wasn't normal. Your colleagues from your MP group, Mr Arsic, applauded and I applauded you, because it speaks of you, speaks of your MP group, and that if someone else had done so, I might have asked for an apology, but since it is you, let it remain as it is, let it be an honor to you, and let it be a testimony to how you experience the National Assembly as an institution, in which way you treat MPs from the opposition and how you insult the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't remember ever being the chairman of the National Assembly telling the MP he wasn't normal. So that, Mr. Arsic, speaks exclusively of you, says how much you lose your nerve and how you are not human and able to lead in an adequate way the National Assembly sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59390	Now, colleague Sarovic, I asked the question, and it was -- if that's what you think, then you're not normal. So it was a condition. Now I will tell you why - I did not want to let you fight with your fellow Members of Parliament because you attacked counterpart Malusic to say that the candidate proposed by the SNS was not a member of the political party, and then you got up and advertised the Rules of Procedure and asked whether it was an insult to be a member of the political party, that he was a national MP, etc. And your colleagues from your parliamentary group told Mr. Sabic that he should not have been elected twice because he was an MP, because he was a minister, because he was the Deputy Prime Minister. So, why did you choose him? ) Now you see, colleague Sarovic, when you are in the position of the chairman and to learn – you cannot measure it... Nemanja Sarovic throws. )......................................................................................................... I am not in charge of measuring the political qualifications of speakers, but rather of maintaining the dignity of the National Assembly, and I cannot apply one standard when my colleague Malusic speaks, and another standard when the MPs speak from other parliamentary groups. Nemanja Sarovic throws. I listened to you and I didn't throw it away. What you're throwing at me right now just proves the level of your education that we all take from home. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Only – yes or no, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59391	I want the Assembly to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59392	I thank my colleague Sarovic. MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59393	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I can tell you that you are perfectly running this session, professionally extremely. For those who haven't read the law, who haven't read the proposal, you can't explain it to them, and above all, you can't explain it – Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, who I wouldn't really talk about as much as they talk about as if he were the subject. He's an ex. He was elected in 2004 for the first time, and the second time on December 12th 2011. So we didn't choose him, and he wasn't chosen by the congregation majority, for those who don't know. Probably no one noticed that this first term was a Protector, or Trustee, because he had not done a single bit of his work. In his second term, he probably wanted to do business, but he's working against us, so we all noticed him. So much for him because he, like all those who came in 2000, is a monster that hit Serbia and disfigured everything and ate us and our future as locusts. Fortunately for us, they are only a part of history, and Rodoljub Sabic, one of those, as well as those across the street, who drove themselves out of where the people chose them, or their voters. It's probably some smart policy that doesn't offer anything new that can't respond to what the SNS, the President of the Republic and this congregation's majority of development, to progress, to the future. They continue to deal with Twitter, deal with themselves, and let them remain in their ignorance. You don't need to talk about them. About Mr. Marinović all the best. From what they said above all, Mr Krlić as chairman of the Committee, from that biography we all got where we saw that the man was a professional, that he was in the profession and only in the profession and that, normally, he wasn't a politician like he couldn't even be a politician who proposed to this high office. In his future work, I wish him well and I would agree with my colleague Aco Markovic, Mr Milane, to do all that Mr Sabic did not do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59394	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59395	You should have reacted, Mr. Arsic, under Article 27 of Article 1 and Article 107. To avoid confusion, citizens follow this transmission, followed by Mr. Marinovic, followed by other judges, some future candidates for the Trustee, if there is such a thing in the future. Don't deceive people and say that someone who's a politician can't run for office. You say it like that. At the moment, there is Mr. Martinovic, so let him explain to you his colleague Bojanic, when he is running for office and when he is elected to that post, he must not be a member of the political party, and whether Mr. Marinovic was a member of the Socialist Union of Youth, the SPS in its establishment, the Alliance of Communists. He didn't state it in his biography. That's completely irrelevant. So, at the moment that someone, and it was not disputed with Rodoljub Sabic, which he was, and participated in that affair, he also talked about it, and his colleague Martinovic, condemned himself to the justice of God Vuk Obradovic, and was vice president of the Assembly, but later it was his action, his action against the state, the people, the bearer of the highest public functions, all abuse of the law and the function of the Commissioner. And if it's Mr. Marinovic or anyone else, then the law is clear about that. The moment it is chosen not to be politically active, there is no knowledge, etc. You know, there's no knowing what it doesn't mean in this case, probably with you checked out, but you can get into a situation where someone doesn't say, but there are some parties out there from Alexandrovac or this Alexic guy from Triestenik. So hypothetically, that could happen. So, in this case it's not, but it's important that at that point, it's the law now, that someone doesn't. You know, it's easy to get the impression, and it was the intensity of reporting, and here I am finishing up, and you and your colleagues have reacted so sharply, we can't say that all of us who belong to the parties have a colleague here, so we're some who are bad people, no. It's people who need to get involved, who wants it, with an active political life, and of course when there are functions like this, the law has prescribed what can't be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59396	I am fully aware that in the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic, against Veroljub Arsic, yours must be the last. That's why I accept it and agree to it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) National MP Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59397	Thank you, Mr. Aric. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow the transfers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you can make sure every day who and how it represents your interests, who and how it looks at political life in the country, who and how it looks at independent institutions. The Serbian Progressive Party, by coming to power in 2012, had an important task, not to continue as it was done from 2000 to 2012, to establish a discontinuity policy with the previous regime, to unearth this anti-state, anti-national system that was established for 12 years by the authorities of the previous regime. And this anti-state and anti-agorical system has extended to independent institutions as well. Those who considered themselves independent and thus presented themselves to the citizens were not at all independent. They served as some subcommittee or council of those political parties that were then in power, and continued to function and work and to leave those parties that had delegated to them. Rodoljub Sabic as former Commissioner for Public Information was not a trustee, he was a PR and it was a PR outside the political party, the PR opposition, the PR of the opposition and, of course, the opposition has the right, it is the task of the opposition to draw attention to the possible something that is not good at the work of the government, political parties that exercise power, but it was not the task of the Commissioner for Information of Public Matter. He went deep into Serbia's political life and thus abused those funds that were delegated to its function, not only through the purchase of a mobile phone for 160,000 dinars, which is a scandal aside from the amount of pay he had, which is huge, he was for that money, instead of working for the interests of citizens, buying his mobile phones, spending on his media performances, hoping to have something important to say and explain to the citizens. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia when more and more Shabic and those whose interests represent, those who know nothing else today but to threaten our colleagues in the worst possible way, and, behold, the other day, the Secretary of State at the MUP, Biljana Popović Ivkovic, who also threatens the President of the Republic, his family in the worst possible way, address the most disgusting insults to all who are trying to work and work in the interests of Serbian citizens, in their interest, i.e. in the interest of those who are doing everything to destabilise the Republic of Serbia, Rodoljub Sabic, not in the interest of Serbian citizens, worked in their interests. The candidate for the Commissioner proposed by our parliamentary group, I am convinced that he will just be someone who will do everything that Rodoljub Sabic has not done. They will take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, stick to what the law prescribes, and I am confident that they will meet expectations, not of us who deal with politics alone, but of the expectations of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59398	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59399	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we will speak today, discuss, and choose the Commissioner for Information as a very important and independent function. The new trustee should create discontinuity in the work compared to Rodoljub Sabic, while retaining continuity under the law, in trusted jobs and work tasks. If he does, then he will carry out his task of law. Rodoljub Sabic was a pure political figure, a purely political person, a man who changed four political parties, was a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and served as minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He has particularly acted politically for the last two years of his term. That's what you respected citizens have seen best, and so have you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Rodoljub Šabić had neither dignity nor expertise nor justice for that function. Sabic embezzled nearly 15m dinars from the Republika Srpska budget. It's not just me, it's the Council for Monitoring, Human Rights and the fight against corruption. To this day, honourable MPs, respected citizens, have not tried to justify and explain where this great money is, but has accused the current authority of leading the hunt against him. Even his Goran Jesic, the DS official, called him because he didn't answer for it. It is the personality of Rodoljub Šabić. Rodoljub Sabic was attacked, if you remember, on Sremska Street in Belgrade. In fact, he tripped because, as the people said, he fell and tripped and broke his head. Of course, imagine who he accused of that? Who else would it be than the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. I won't talk about those 80,000 pounds where they evaporated, especially the honourable MP Marijan Risticevic, but let me just point out that the Anti-Corruption Agency banned the work on the Rodoljub Sabic project. He tended to attack our esteemed MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, with total lies and lies about him. I have to say, it wasn't just done, it was done by some journalists these days, like some journalist Seidimovic. I have to tell you as a man who remembers the political, communist regime, that Seidimovic is a clean political worker, as you would say from the time of the Communist Union, which he brought out these days, you have seen a series of lies about Dr Martinovic. Rodoljub Sabic was only one of the former executives, and are now gathered in the Alliance for Serbia, which destroyed and devastated our country by robbery privatisation. I'll count them. Among them are the most important: Dragan Djilas, in the people "Jiki Mafia"; Vuk Jeremic, leader and member of the international gang of thieves and bandits; Janko Veselinović, in the people known as "Janko Stanocrats", as you know, the people called him because he stole the apartment of Milic Baji from Obrovec, in the street of Brece Kurjakovića 9; Bosko Obradović called "rapist"; Dusan Petrovic, in a people called "Kravoubocica", that was the one who was the minister during the party of the former regime, who ordered the minister of agriculture to slaughter 250 thousand cows, from the total fund of 500 000, as much as the Republic of Serbia had; Marinika Tepić, called "the dove of the fly", she was already lying in one party, and in the morning I won't speak of the Malvarianism, because she told the people of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, because she said "Major, "Maj" to the Republic of Slovenia. That's the one you're familiar with -- one gram for right now and two for carrying. He declared without shame and shame that he would, therefore, piss on the grave of the President of the Republic. Furthermore, there is Bojan Pantic, also known as the "Friendly Lover". Why "family lover"? Because while he was president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, he also hired a 20th knee. Of the 700 workers in the Executive Council, according to Goran Jesic, I quote, "he increased to 2,500". There, among others, is Marko Bastac, called "the Destroyer". It's the one who fights traffic signs. Besides him, there is Milojic Radoslav, called "Pivopi", a folk MP who is not here today in the O.R., who was president of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, who spent on beer, believe it or not, 457,700 dinars, and spent an evening of 110,000 in the Atrium cafe. In Smederjevska Palanca, I was the day before yesterday, there's still that graphite, there's a year, which says, "The truth is alive, there's no beer in Palank, there's only foam left, there's yellow Ken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it, the coffee shop drinks, the budget pays for everything, I'm yellow Ken, from the Glibovac. " Besides him, there is Dragan Sutanovac, also known as "the kidnapper" from the return pastures. Besides him, there is Zoran Zivkovic, a farmer trying. This is the one, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who in the village of Pukovac near Nisa produced a vaccine of yogurt and water, vaccinated chickens, those killed and he took the money. There is Balša Bozovic, also known as "goradi gusan" from Maldiv, which is the one who flies every year in Maldives. You know what he said yesterday? That he and Mr. Micunovic, I quote, "destroyed the Nazi regime in the 1990s". Shame on him. That's what he says about his country. And there's Dr. Zoran Lutovac, called "the stray." Why "the stray"? The people say he's not for politics, he's gone astray. There is Boris Tadic, also known as "lipicaner", and there is academic Dusan Teodorovic, called "tresshead". Why "shockhead"? Because when the name of the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, was mentioned, out of anger, out of hatred for him, shaking his head all the time, you saw on TV screens, and that's why the people called him an academic "shakehead". There is Nenad Canak, called "Gicoje", Cedo Jovanovic, called "Smrkanovic", Velija Ilic, doctor of theft and, of course, Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanoski, called Rade "jaara" and other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they have destroyed our past. They destroyed our future. They also destroyed our present. They also destroyed the future of our children. And if they had stayed only a year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you didn't let them. You've sent them into a political past, which I hope will never return from. Let me say that the current trustee, Mr. Marinovic, owns this function of dignity, expertise at an envious level, justice and, which is very positive, is not politically engaged. In that sense, in the voting day, me and Mr. People's MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59400	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59401	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, honourable MPs, the institution of the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning should be an independent institution, i.e. to take care of all citizens equally. So, don't put yourself on either side. With his behaviour, however, Rodoljub Sabic collapsed the work of the entire office. That's why the question is, is it the trustee's job to put himself on the side of individual opposition leaders? Is it his duty to attack his country every time and campaign against her? To attack President Alexander Vukic, Ministers and People's MPs? What about his crackdown on social media, where he didn't want to talk to the unthinkers, often blocking them? He was involved in petty politics, but also in placing lies, with clear intentions, which were meant to serve as a stepping stone for politics, as was the case with Sasa Jankovic, who worked in the same way. We still have a non-transport of the real facts where, as we remember, he was first attacked, and later security cameras determined a different factual state, so he later admitted that there was no word of attack. Placing stories and twisting facts speaks enough. With all that, the answers he was spending the money he had at his disposal, we didn't get. There's no evidence of a competition for admission to a working relationship with a large number of people in his service. Abuse of functions and direct conflict of interest represent when he said certain politicians want him to point out the mayor's candidacy. From the above, it is essential that in the future, at the head of such an important institution, someone who is apolitical should be. For this reason, moral credibility and high standards of conduct are necessary, meaning responsibility, seriousness, but also someone who will work in the public interest, not in private and in order to promote himself, because it is bound by such a high function. It's important he respects what he's been entrusted with. The new proposed candidate has experience, as he served as President of the Court in Belgrade for ten years, unlike the previous Commissioner, who performed several functions and dealt with politics. Milan Marinovic has shown impartiality, expertise and dignity throughout his career. I think the citizens in that position want to see one more correct, more objective and professional approach, because it's in their best interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59402	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59403	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, our Parliament club The Socialist Movement – The People's Socialist Party – The United Peasant Party will support the proposal submitted by the Committee on Culture to the Assembly to elect Mr Marinović for the Trustee. Although we have had a proposal in which a democratic and transparent procedure has been discussed, we have indeed come to believe and persuasion, through the whole procedure, as well as a good analysis of biography, and not only of the biography that has been delivered, but also of additional work analysis, of the engagement of Mr Marinovic in the affairs he had done in the previous period, that simply Mr Marinovic represents in every respect a person who does not only meet the conditions prescribed by the law but actually meets one legitimate expectation that by doing the work of the Trustee, he will do so in the way that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect him, as this Parliament expects him to do, and that means exclusively in accordance with the laws governing that area. His experience as a judge of crime and as president of the Criminal Court and V.D. The President of the Court of Appeals is indeed just another reason to show that his experience was practically twofold, someone acting on the requests of the Commissioner for Information, for the delivery of certain information, as an elder of that authority, and on the other hand, as the President of the Court, acting on the misappropriations submitted by the Trustee in earlier periods. So, in his work, he has an absolute opportunity to act impartially as someone who has not dealt with politics in a direct way before that, he has taken one position that we expect of all those who are engaged in judicial functions, which is that they are able to resist all kinds of pressures, pressures from the media, and any other pressures that can be expected to do their work very committed and exclusively and by law alone. We have not heard any serious criticism of Mr. Marinovic's work during this long-term process in which practically everything that could have been heard about him is good or an opportunity to hear something negative, we have not heard anything negative that would have been a signal to us that we have any retention and reserve in order to show our trust in the day of voting with satisfaction and to expect that the way he is going to do this job will be drastically different from what I do not want to talk about, and this is about some previous period, but that the institution of the Commissioner for Information will continue to live in its full capacity exclusively in the interest and to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59404	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59405	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would just like to repeat once again that in the work of independent bodies, certainness is extremely important, it is important that the institution works for the benefit of citizens and states and in accordance with the law, because it is only this way that it is possible to improve the institution of the Trustees and gain citizens' trust. Independent institutions should not serve authorities, they should be corrective of these same authorities, not critics, but serious critics of all that can be further promoted in society. A candidate who, I am confident, will receive our support and whom the Assembly will choose in the voting day is not a politician. I think it's important to say, not because it needs to be apolitical, as a thinking being, it's impossible to be apolitical, but it's important to point out that it's not a politician, it's never been a politician, it's spent its entire career as a professional, in the Criminal Court, and from that place, it's also very important to note, it's been working closely with the trustee and the trustee's office in the previous period, and it's not only in the proceedings before the Criminal Court which has already been initiated by the former trustee, but, together with the representatives of the trustee institution at international conferences, represented the state of Serbia and represented the views when it comes to the protection of personal data and the right of the public to have all information on the work of the state authorities, in an entirely authentic and independent way that someone who can have spent their entire working life in the judicial business. Independent institutions, and to repeat, depend on the authority of the one who runs them and I believe Milan Marinovic, through his impartial work, using his previous trial experience, will be the real Protector of citizens who will consistently enforce the laws of their jurisdiction. In the day to vote, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for the Trustee and give full support to his future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59406	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59407	I thank you, Chairman. I will use part of the remaining time of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group and what has been recognised as co-worker and friend Snezana Paunovic said could only be worth the confirmation, the position of the SPS parliamentary group which is unequivocally clear, which is, dear colleague Krlic, that we will support your proposal unreservedly. Because by participating in the work and not only of your committee, but of all the bodies and bodies of this Assembly, we want, we will, as we have done so far, and we will always do as long as we are in power, share responsibility for all the decisions we make. Today, that decision is more specific. It is more specific in this regard that we decide on a personal solution, not a small matter, but a very significant personal solution, given the experience of the previous period and the predecessor of the one who, thanks to our decision, will take on a truly significant function, the Commissioner whom we will certainly vote on in the voting day. It's about Mr. Milan Marinovic. What would be a recommendation, and maybe I'll take a little risk getting out of the limits of correctness, is one recommendation to the future trustee, and that recommendation applies in two directions. One direction is to avoid over-response in the performance of the functions in any way, and this over-response in the performance of the functions we had the opportunity to see and in some way even experience, where the trustee even appeared above the judiciary in the previous period and gave orders to the courts, or to the presidents of the courts. Of course, the law under which he acted gives certain powers when it comes to certain types of warrants, but to usurp the jurisdiction of the judicial system, it is nevertheless inadmissible. Another direction that also implies a well-intentioned suggestion to the future trustee is to correct certain mistakes that cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is linked to the judicial system. Dear colleague Komlenski recently commented on this subject, very well-founded and professionally. There is a so-called portal of courts where Serbian citizens can get all the information on court proceedings. Unfortunately, not long ago, Serbian citizens have been denied the right, just by the decision of the former believer, Rodoljub Sabic. Why? Because the data from the proceedings are important, no matter what the proceedings are, criminal, litigation and others, because there are more, and I don't want to list them, we sort of came into a situation that we no longer have transparency, or that the public was not informed of what should be notified. We and how well we know that all trials are in the pervasive sense of the word, publicly except where the public must be excluded. Why, then, it is denied that the public gets no information about the essential elements, the essential facts of which depends on the prevention of something that can cost the citizens themselves, not to conclude a contract with a fraud, not to enter into a disputed situation, not to suffer damage from situations from which they can experience adverse consequences and so on. Therefore, we today, distinguished colleagues, and from the opposition and that part of the opposition that actively participates in the work of this Assembly, and we from the position, share responsibility for something that is important. It is important that we believe that the future Commissioner will do his job legally, professionally, committed and fully responsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To be perfectly honest, we have participated in the decision-making process and when the previous Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic is elected. We can't even close our eyes on the fact that at the beginning of his work, that work could have been characterized as something that was professional. Unfortunately, already after a while, it became quite the opposite of that, which means that instead of professionalism, we are entering the domain of politics, that this same trustee has become more of a political actor on the political scene of Serbia, with connotations, statements and everything he has done in a way that cannot be accepted, neither as legal nor as correct nor as cultural, nor as otherwise, because I do not want to present in any way a qualification that would be a rough qualification. That is why he remains to believe that given the results so far in the work of distinguished counterpart Milan Marinovic, all these failures, shortcomings, illegalities, the former trustee will be the past and will never be repeated again. That citizens will have confidence in one institution that is very important and that precisely because it comes from a judicial system, and at the head of a significant court, the Criminal Court in Belgrade, they will be able to place it in the best possible way, which is on the one hand to protect those data on persons who need to be protected, and on the other hand to protect all others who could suffer damage in the opposite cases. The Socialist Party of Serbia, through its parliamentary club, firmly believes that together, everyone here in power, and those who accept this from the opposition, we can believe that we are coming to a good solution and therefore again support your proposal, Mr Krlic, or the board and the SPS, will support both now and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, believe in the work of the future Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59408	Thanks, buddy. Since someone's no longer answering for word, I'm concluding a joint single search and setting a break until 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59409	We're going back to work. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59410	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the public enforcement institution is one of the worst currents of the DS regime in Serbia. Therefore, public enforcement officers were introduced by law of 2011, confirmed by the advanced majority of 2015 and here, now considered the issue of enforcement in 2019, without any criticism of our experience with the work of public executioners so far. Public perpetrators have proved, not only unnecessary in our legal system, but also very greedy, an association that has developed instead of taking care of the performance of obligations, the collection of debts, they take care exclusively of their own personal benefits, their own personal benefit and all that on the burden of Serbian citizens. There are countless such examples, examples of their haughtiness in carrying out obligations, in confiscation of real estate, in exorcising families on the street. Because we know all of this, and we are taught this negative experience, the SRS suggests that as soon as possible re-examine this subject, that we return the execution process to the courts, that this is done again by the judicial, civil and human rights enforcer, so that we do not bring citizens in the possibility that their powers may be misused, that their procedural, civil and human rights are not respected, as we now have. We appeal to the SNS to remove the public executioner's institution as soon as possible. As you know, the SRS is the only party in Serbia, which advocates the abolition of public perpetrators, i.e. The perpetrators and so far we have collected more than 100,000 signatures of support from Serbian citizens for such a thing, and before the fall regular session of the National Assembly, we will hand over the signatures and a brand-new bill, where we will return the execution to courts and make the courts more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59411	Thank you. National MP Marjan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does Zoran Despotovic want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59412	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. By respecting the law, Mr. Despotovic, on a different opinion, I have my own that public executioners have been introduced to relieve the courts and increase the efficiency of the collection of claims and the completion of executive proceedings. All citizens who have waited in the process to collect what they have are allowed to exercise their right by introducing the perpetrators. By returning these cases to court, we would have damaged those citizens again. The problem with contractors in practice has arisen with small debtors, with honest people who simply couldn't pay off their debt for municipal services, but this will never happen again, given that this law protects citizens who are safe to their obligations but are sometimes forced by a difficult material situation to reconcile their obligations with delays. The amount of debt for which the perpetrators cannot take away the only property you own, or roof over your head, is up to 5,000 euros, which is over half a million dinars. With such a solution, the law will continue to protect citizens who are creditors, but it will also protect those who are debtors, and the socially endangered category of society, who own the only home they live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59413	Thank you, nice. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59414	Thank you, President. Actually, I've called earlier, but here, I'll get a hold of it. I believe that, at the beginning of the debate, in particular in the particulars of this bill, the concept of an enforcement solution should be clarified, particularly for the citizens who are following this debate. Therefore, the amendments will definitely mean that this term implies a solution to the enforcement brought by the court and by the public enforcer on the basis of an executive or credible document. If we take into account the components of this bill, in terms of the reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions, and that the proposal refers to protection of both debtors and creditors. Physical persons who can be found in the role of parties in the process must know what changes everything. Some of the situations that occurred earlier are making changes and additions to this law, just to improve the profession of public executioners, but also to improve our legislation. Public perpetrators are a profession that certainly contributes greatly to the efficiency of our courts, cases that would return to court would contribute greatly to the slowdown of procedures and to the length of time, which would hit the most, precisely the citizens of Serbia who appear as participants in these proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59415	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59416	An amendment similar to this amendment to Article 2 is not the only one we have submitted. In fact, we have intervened in such a large number of members in this way, and that is the essence of our objections to this bill and to the basic law. Of course the courts have to take over the executions. We're absolutely opposed to public contractors working on these jobs. Of course, we didn't want to do every single intervention in this sense, but there are a lot of them. Assuming, say, that any of these amendments were adopted, then, of course, a legal-technical order would be carried out, so that would be done throughout the bill. It's not what we expect. You are obviously firm in the view that this should remain with the public executioners and we have said that during this debate we will also tell you some examples that are in us... Not only those examples, but which is just proof of how right we are and how bad it is for the citizens of Serbia that public perpetrators do this. For example, we have here the documentation of Miodrag Milosevic of Borca, who had claims of 1,977 dinars for electricity. Through the executioner, some Vojka Janjic, he still had to pay 3,900 dinars, and then a reward to the executioner of 1,800 dinars, or 3,600 if this does not pay within the deadline. The man led the procedure, everything at his disposal and, believe it or not, all his objections were rejected as unfounded and he came under the influence of public executioners. So this is about the self-will of public contractors and not just this, but it's a lot of examples. We'll hear about it both today and tomorrow, until this is over and we come with our bill that will be absolutely fair and much better than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59417	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59418	Thank you. As you know, what's the biggest problem with the work of public executioners is that you absolutely don't respect the civil, human rights of debtors and we've seen this on many examples. If the ruling majority here is called as the main argument for their existence, i.e. for the existence of public executioners, the achievement of certain efficiency in the collection of debts does not mean that efficiency in itself is greater than human and civil rights. So human rights and civil rights must be first and efficiency second. If someone cares about efficiency, it should have been done with the court, that is, to put the bailiff in a position, to maintain such circumstances, to create such an environment, that it can work effectively, but that we have a guarantee of the protection of human and civil rights. I'll remind you of the essence of the law that was in force before 2011. Therefore: “In order to achieve the financial claim and to ensure such a claim cannot be implemented over the things or rights necessary to meet the basic needs of the debtors and persons legally required to maintain or perform the independent activity that the debtors are the main source of the means of life. In carrying out the execution and security, care will be taken of the dignity of the debtor's personality, as well as of making enforcement and security less unfavourable for the debtor." We see that there is absolutely no concern here about the dignity of the debtors. That's no one's interested in public contractors. They're just interested in getting to those valuables as soon as possible, whether they're mobile or immovable, which the debtor has, and to be charged out of that debt with fees that are abnormal, which determine themselves and ultimately more than ten times the base debt. Keep that in mind. That's something to take care of. That's the basic thing that we need to be interested in, not how many executions are achieved in statistical data, because we don't see how many people are left without a roof over their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59419	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59420	I thank you, President. I'd just like to point out a few facts that can't be doubted. Before the organisation of the perpetrators as public authorities because public authorities were transferred to them, the courts were stifled by a huge number of executive cases. When we talk about human and civil rights, then we have to come from something that is undeniable, which is that it's asphyxiation with a huge number of cases in courts caused an extremely, extremely long period of time when executions could be carried out at all, i.e. to the realization of the verdict from the time when the proposal for execution was made has passed an extremely long period of time. Is this more serious civil rights violations than it is to allow a far more efficient process to carry out the collection of claims or the settlement of claims? Anyway, it doesn't matter, it's a trustee's interest. So two goals have been achieved. The first goal is that several hundred, thousands, and perhaps several cases are relatively fast or relatively nearly resolved from the moment when public executioners began to carry out their duties. Secondly, we have avoided that the state is carrying a huge burden of costs on behalf of the compensations imposed by the European sentencing decisions in Strasbourg for breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, because the trial within a reasonable period of time was the fundamental right of the party literally at stake by the fact that from the moment of the lawfulness of the verdict until the time of execution of the verdict there was a period of several years. This huge problem, this anomaly has just been solved by public executioners. I understand all the amendments proposed in another direction, whether the public executioner in the way he makes certain revenue represents something that could be considered an excessive burden on the executive debtor, on the one hand. On the other hand, the wealth of executive creditors. But that's not the point of this topic. The essence of this topic is how to make the execution process more effective, how the trustees calm down, how to come to the realization of the verdict. What we are constantly forgetting is one fact absolutely undeniable – well, the public executioner does nothing but enforce the verdict. He didn't make the verdict. The verdict was brought by the court, and in that judgment is the binding part which is said to oblige Marko Markovic to pay the amount of that amount and so much in the name of the debt, but since he has not paid, a proposal for execution has been submitted, and this proposal for enforcement is an only initial act on which the court makes a decision to carry out the enforcement procedure, i.e. approves the execution and then enters into the scene of the public executioner. What's he doing? Well, don't do anything else, except carry out that verdict and only within the limits of that verdict is moving. Therefore, prejudices on public perpetrators should be removed, on the one hand, but also to punish the most rigorous and rigorous public perpetrators who abuse their powers. In that sense, I think that you, the Honorable Minister, still have the support for these parts of the law, except for those we asked for a change when it comes to amendments, that we will, of course, vote for them. I didn't say it at the very beginning, I'm using the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59421	The word is made by Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59422	Thank you. Since they are calling for the provisions of the laws that were in force before 2011, saying that only this law had taken care of the protection of the person of the debtor, I must also read to you Article 142 of the applicable law, where it also states that the public enforcement officer is obliged to perform executive activities, and in particular the search of the apartment, business or other premises of the executive debtor or of the clothes he wears, takes due care of the person of the executive debtor and members of his household, which just shows that when carrying out the execution should take care of the person of the debtor. Is the execution in the domain of human rights or not? I must tell you that one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is that you can make your claim confirmed by a judicial decision and that this achievement should be effective and implemented within a reasonable period. By 2011, it wasn't there. The executions lasted longer than 10 years, many and today last exactly that long when it comes to cases which are in courts, unlike the perpetrators who have achieved efficiency and the average duration of the executive procedure in public enforcement today is 110 days. It is not yet an average that is satisfactory, but certainly by amending and supplementing this law we hope to achieve that. One of the characteristics of the executive procedure that should be cheaper and what, as Minister, I can promise, given that in my jurisdiction and the adoption of a public enforcement tariff, it is precisely if the MPs adopt amendments and additions to this law of the next session that the amendments and additions to the public enforcement tariffs, which will also be reduced, and a large part of the fees that are now in place for public executioners, will be abolished. The existing fees will be reduced, and in particular the fees will be reduced, let's say, when an execution is to be carried out to collect alimony, or legal support, and that's something you'll be able to see very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59423	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59424	Replica. Mrs. Kuburovic, it's good that you've read the 2001 laws, but I'll have to remind you that if you really take care of it then you should react when the law is broken, and it's filled with examples of violations of those provisions in Serbia. So the perpetrators don't care about anything other than to charge as much as possible from that execution, and that's the fact that we've seen from experience. You know, you're right, everyone needs to make their claim, i.e. pay if someone is in debt to him and it is the property of the rule of law, but from the execution process they become richer perpetrators, not creditors. I will also remind you that how much memory I am served and Serbian advances voted against the 2011 law. So the advances were against something they now support. So, let's not talk about the epic historical achievements of this law and modernization, since it is obvious that this is simply bad for the citizens of Serbia and that it puts all Serbian citizens in a position to fear that due to some debt they will lose their roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59425	Thank you. The People's Parliament of Natasha Sp submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59426	The debate of some MPs of the ruling coalition is obviously with the intention of calling attention from the mafia registers of public executioners in a different direction, and you have this tendency, Madam Minister, you have also had in principle debate today, when you talk about statistics on how to pay, and this is really amazing. As is the case with a certain Aleksandra Treschev from the Chamber of Public Executives, as well as her colleagues during each public appearance on television. When people who have turned black, who have taken property for some small debt, apartments that have 10 times the value they say – maybe even the law is not good, should change. Then we get into a situation where everything is ideal and they should exist, but, well, now we're just missing this change of law. That's not true. They shouldn't exist. Public perpetrators are the biggest evil in Serbia. No statistics, I don't know, that millions, tens of millions of euros that they've charged to the creditors in this way, can make up for one human tragedy or a family tragedy. Here, in this first address to my amendments, I'm going to set one such example. It is interesting to say that Branko Hawaii, whose 90,000-euro apartment was sold because of a 6,500-euro debt they sold and said -- that's fine, and that's an argument that we have successfully completed it. I end up, Mrs. Gojkovic, the apartment was sold at a public auction on 30 December 2016 at a slaughterhouse in Bečmen, which was attended by five bidders, was sold at the starting price of just 26,000 euros and only one bidder, a lawyer's office that accepted the initial price. I guess the other four in the eyes of the New Year came to Surcin, or that local community to take a walk, so think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59427	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59428	Thank you, President. You listed all the information, even the names of the parties, but you didn't say the name of the executioner. It's about the executioner we've resolved, so that face is absolutely no longer performing public enforcement function. When you talk about tragedies, always keep in mind that on the other hand when it comes to executive creditors, there are also some individuals who expect their claim to be charged and these are not just utility companies, as we have had opportunities these days to listen. Trustees can be children, creditors can be workers who thus earn their unpaid earnings, make outstanding contributions to pension and health insurance. So the number of municipal companies that appear as creditors of such cases is increasing, and the number of executions being carried out on the basis of executive documents, and the executive documents are in fact legal decisions. On the other hand, when we talk about debtors, there is an increasing number of those cases where the government appears as a debtor, not a natural person, and almost one third of the executive cases are exactly the ones where the state, or the state authorities, were debtors, so that compared to the total number of cases, we talk about three thousand cases where the execution of the immovable property was carried out, which does not mean that there were real estates which were the only immobility of the executive debtor and clouded the overall picture of the execution in Serbia, the overall picture of effective execution. I don't think it's correct, especially to talk about mob associations. If you have such evidence, then you know what the competent authorities are to deal with it, and at the same time evaluate a judicial profession in that way, I think it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59429	The word has Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić And you'll get it. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A replica to me?)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59430	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that Article 3 and how significant it is from the aspect of those difficulties that the Ministry of Justice has seen during the monitoring of the evaluations of the previous law as a difficulty in applying legal provisions, which is, above all, an unequal case law. Article 3 is the product of this unequal case law and is very important from the point of view of what is the court's jurisdiction in enforcement proceedings and what is the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. Of course, Article 3 and how significant it is from the aspect of supporting underage children, as well as the maintenance of old and powerless persons, which are in accordance with the Family Relations Act, which are obliged to perform their closest relatives, which are mostly children. Therefore, the procedures relating to maintenance, this member of the law, has been specified that these actions are carried out by public enforcement officers, and I expect that some children will not, as sometimes, wait until they are full of age without reaching what the law belongs to them, and that is the right to support by parents. I would also like to stress that, in addition to a clear distinction on what is the jurisdiction of the court, and what is the jurisdiction of public enforcement officials, it is envisaged here that the execution of the joint sale of mobile and immovable matters is also in the jurisdiction of public enforcement officers. Of course, all of this is going to follow up and cut the public records tariffs, so no additional burden can be talked about. There is certainly no reason to accept the amendments, because this is one step forward in terms of the exercise of trustees' rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59431	The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59432	Madam Minister, the question is, when you say they're so effective, how are they so strong only when people are supposed to take property? You're saying that this public executioner was cleared. Was it returned to this lady this apartment that was kidnapped in such a way, by false, fictitious bidding in the deaf ages ahead of New Year's Eve? Of course not. You've got another situation where when they're supposed to help the weak, they don't help. So the case of a single mother, who and her young children in the middle of the winter wanted to enter her apartment with the investor she contracted and gave her salary to make that apartment. They said they were unable to help her, and then, of course, with the help of some of their friends, who probably had to explain some things to that arrogant investor, or how, and the relatives who got together, they went into their possession. So, you need to think about the direction we're telling you that it's only fair for the citizens of Serbia to return this work to the courts, the courts to be effective, to choose the presidents of the courts who will control this work and to do their job properly, because that is in some way, besides being elected to a high office of judicial, and management work. What don't I say? You also have a basic court in Kragujevac where the disaster is. There's a man waiting for retirement or I don't know what, an absolute stalemate, nothing. Maybe this choice of new young judges, including those honorable children, is going to help, so to speak, because they're much younger, but it's mostly a disaster. They're at least five times cheaper than this mob. Then you can't convince us or the citizens. And these counterarguments as you have prepared, MPs of the ruling coalition, behold, will be helped by those to whom parental alimony is owed. Well, what were the courts doing, what were they waiting for? So, how did they charge before? You know, it's like it all started from the moment and nobody could ever charge for anything or that story, and those workers who were out of a job. Well, why haven't you solved 24 controversial privatisations, what about bankruptcy proceedings that last forever, so people are waiting from these bankruptcy masses to get the money that that firm denied them and the state by their judgments?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59433	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you have confirmed one of the very important facts relating to this law, just before you mentioned that you would take measures that the tariffs of public enforcement must be reduced. You have good intentions and I support your initiative to do so. However, in a very short time, public contractors and notaries, the notebooks, have become enormously rich, and you can find out through statistics which of these holders of these public powers have earned for that period. If it's a notebook, how is it possible that a notebook in a month earns more than 20 ministers or 20 judges' salaries, and that's what you have, Madam Minister, an opportunity to hear, and in practice it can be easily proven? Madam Minister, I expect you many in that direction, that you will do more than the predecessors have done for the judiciary. Who's to blame for this condition? It's wrong of the judiciary that it wasn't effective, so it had to be intervened in this way. I want to point out, Madam Minister, and to remind you, Serbia needs a serious legal system. Legal solutions to more developed legal systems and the institutions of the laws of democratic legal systems are not sufficiently studied. Permanent changes to the law or the adoption of new laws characterise the Serbian judiciary. Napoleon Bonaparte dedicated himself to making a civil code, which was adopted in the year 1804 and has been in force for nearly 120 years. The German Civil Code of 1990 and the Austrian Civil Code of 1811, the Swiss Civil Code of 1912, are now in force and constitute the foundations of the strongest modern economies. In 1844, without EU pressure, the small Balkan Serbia passed the Civil Code for Književina Serbia, which was in force in 102 years, until 1946, when it was abolished by the communists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59435	Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we do not have a personal relationship negative towards public executioners. We're talking about specific cases here. All it needs to know is that the SRS is the only party on Serbia's political scene to advocate against public enforcement. For what? We will give you concrete examples through these amendments, so you will see that it is not only the amount of compensation, but the mistakes that are happening. You told me last time if I listened carefully enough. I don't listen to anyone as carefully as you do. Two reasons are for that. You deserve it because you are very actively involved in the debates. It's on one side. On the other hand, you are talking about problems, which are the problems of Serbian citizens, and for us it is a profession, among other things, so we listened carefully. So we don't have a personal relationship. We do not hate perpetrators, but they have made many miserys to the citizens of Serbia. And you need to know that. I don't know what the difference is right now. I've personally collected over 15 signatures from a lawyer. Some of them are members of the SNS, I have to tell you right away. This is where lawyers, our colleagues, take different views. I respect that, that's their attitude. But we do care that the trustee settles as soon as possible, but that the executive debtor is treated at least as the human right allows. Is that always like this? I don't think so. I'm going to give you one particular case now, as long as time allows for this amendment, we'll proceed later. The basic court in Prijepolje has brought, and I will tell you concrete solutions, made the decision number 884/2018 on the first of February 2019, which was committed by four members of the Delic family... I'll proceed with the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59437	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59438	Thank you. Personally, I think we should avoid generalization, because generalizing the problem creates dangerous consequences. Public perpetrators are doing their job in accordance with the law and the vast majority of public executioners are doing the job professionally and responsibly, devotedly and legally. If there are indeed serious errors or illegalities, illegal actions that would be taken in the execution procedures, which would be committed by the perpetrators, there are at least a few proceedings that could be initiated against them. One is certainly a disciplinary procedure in front of a public-executive chamber, the other is a criminal procedure, etc. I haven't heard the real reason why any of the perpetrators would put themselves in this context. Of course there are, and that is why many of them have been prosecuted, and some have been resolved, which you have just pointed out. But I need to draw attention to something that's very important. When I said that the perpetrators only execute the verdicts, then we come to a situation of absurdity, that the trustee is asked to collect his claim, settle down, but that the debtor pays nothing. A debtor absolutely no burden not to suffer, but a confidant to settle. Absurd, paradoxical, impossible. So, we simply have to establish a more efficient enforcement system that you are going through this bill, you're taking the path to one such execution, and I'm going to repeat, if it's an executive, it's mostly a judicial decision, in my statement that someone is obliged to hand over the immovableity and that obligation which, as we say to the lawyers, is condemnative nature, that I must surrender my house because I am illegally located, I apologize to myself, I am illegally in the facility, I have to hand it over to the owner. Then what is it that the perpetrator will come to say – please come out? If you're not going out, then you're going to go out with assistance or the police or those organs that I can hire for one such shop. What's so controversial about that? This is an absolute establishment of legal certainty and preservation of the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59439	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Do you want a word? National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59440	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, to Article 6 relating to Article 20 of the Basic Law on Enforcement and Security, which regulates the relationship between the executive procedure on the basis of a statement or mortgage agreement and outside the court procedure of settlement under the rules of the Mortgage Act, we have submitted an amendment requesting the removal of the proposed amendments, because we believe that the existing solution is fairer. The Serbian Radical Party is in favour of abolishing public enforcement, i.e. we believe that this bill should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and a completely new fairer law should be passed, as we are daily witnesses to the arrogant and inhumane conduct of public perpetrators who are seizing property for the citizens of Serbia due to small debts. It is the power to protect all rights of the citizens of Serbia, all human and procedural rights, however, these proposed amendments and additions to the laws leave the possibility for the perpetrators to continue to be rich at, I feel free to say, the dirtiest way, because they buy seized properties at the lowest prices on the auctioned bids. That is why we ask that public perpetrators be abolished, that the execution be returned to the courts, because it is the only way to prevent further robbery by Serbian citizens by the executive mafia, which in 2017 sold 3,736 apartments and houses of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59441	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59442	Thank you, Your Honor. I am reporting for an amendment to Article 6 which, of course, the Government has not accepted because these amendments have precisely defined two procedures. If the trustee decides, it is, in fact, a member of the law which speaks of the arrangement of the same trustee by applying different laws on mortgage-loaded immovableities, if the trustee decides to charge for settlement, in fact by non-judicial settlement, by seeking to be initiated under the Mortgage Act, he has the possibility to move on at a given time to a court settlement procedure, which is mentioned under the Law on Enforcement and Security. In principle, when I was speaking, I said that every member of the law, 170 of them, was tax-explained and explained why it was passed, why it was in the bill. In practice, the trustee, if he goes into extrajudicial settlement, cannot stop the process and move on to court settlement. This article clarifies precisely the possibility that even in the course of the execution of a non-judgmental procedure, it can be terminated and transferred to a judicial execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59443	National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we would all like to charge more than to pay, but the problem is that there is injustice. So, you have a commitment to make over someone who hasn't charged his claims. In the country, that's the problem. Imagine a holiday from a village near Nis that waited years to charge 50,000 dinars from the state, and to get some bill that couldn't settle and that bill, say, is two thousand dinars. Imagine farmers who are easy prey cheaters, cheaters who take over more agricultural products when buying them than they buy them out. So they can pay for them, but they don't have to. There's no deposit on the account to deal with the ransom. He can buy whoever he wants. Now imagine someone who didn't charge 30 tons of plums, who didn't charge their agricultural products and who can't settle his obligations in time and now imagine when the executioner comes to him, who comes justifiably, to settle the obligation of those who don't owe anything to that farmer, but he can't collect from those others. Courts all to judge. Usually those companies with limited liability go into bankruptcy of blank accounts. So those claims are never charged. It is necessary to distinguish the payment of claims in the city, large cities from accounts that are mostly full. In the city, usually demands that they pay their dues avoid the rich. People, like Gilas, School, etc., are looking to remain in debt. In the village, obligations often do not appease those who were victims of previous fraud or inability to collect their products. Also, it happens, because of the poorer population, that the bills don't get or get hit somewhere by a gate, a fence, so they don't accidentally pay for it. For example, an account of 800 dinars brings you out of 20,000 dinars. These are examples that are in practice. Most of the time, this is where he puts his trust in the court. I wish I could share that trust with certain fellow MPs, trust in courts. But courts don't just share justice. Courts often share injustice. The court must side with one of the parties or stand against both parties, and that happens. Someone's got to pay for it later. Unlike the perpetrators who are certainly not the ideal person to appear at your gate, the court executioners are responsible for their decisions, corresponding to the property. The courts and judges are not responding to anything. Therefore, it is not necessary to fear the perpetrators as much as it is necessary to fear the injustices that the courts have, in particular because of some strange 2009 reform in 2010, can produce on the property of certain debtors. Therefore, it is the court that says that these obligations must be settled, and the executioner does so. The judge is not responsible for the decision he makes. An executor, if that decision is illegal, even corresponds to his own property. So we need to be objective in this case, and with special attention we need to reconsider the application of this and all similar laws in the country in view of all the events that I have described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59445	The 8th Amendment was filed by Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59446	Thank you. First of all, I would like to clarify one question: one thesis that has emerged in public – how from now on we will protect more citizens of Serbia because they will not be able to seize real estate due to a debt of up to 5,000 euros. All the newspapers wrote about it, on all the news shows and TVs, it was like now it's a new humane, social solution that will make sure that every citizen can't run out of real estate due to a 5,000-euro debt. We just have to point out that it's an exclusive debt for municipal claims, only for electricity, water, gas, etc. Not all debts, not the biggest debt to the banks, but only to the municipal debts. I must admit that you spoke very extensively and thoroughly about it, Mrs. Gojkovic, two days ago and there is obviously a problem, only to let everyone know that, above all, debtors very rarely get into a situation to owe these amounts for municipal services, since municipal services are excluded after some time of non-payment, a month, two, three, four months, i.e. the use of electricity, water, etc. is disabled. Someone who hasn't paid, and that's not what we're talking about in public. The accent should be placed on it and it should be said that it is only one cosmetic change that has no social character and does nothing to protect debtors from the savagery of public executioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59447	Philip Stojanovic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59448	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 relating to the position of Article 24 of the current Amendment and Supplement Law on Implementation and Security. With this amendment, I asked that the text - or the public executioner be deleted. The position of the SRS is that enforcement through a public executioner must be immediately abolished. We are witnessing that a huge number of abuses have occurred in this area, of which the state has not benefited. The use only had a narrow circle of people who were interestingly connected. On the other hand, it's not the biggest negative consequence of changing this law. A huge number of Serbian families suffered irreparable damage, which has been unorthodoxly leading to the most tragic consequences. How many times from this place does the SRS have to repeat to you that this law carries enormous damage to our country. The signatures we collected should bind you to that. So I urge you to accept this amendment of mine because it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, except for that narrow circle that is rich in other people's torment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59449	Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59450	I would like to thank the President. Dear Minister, it is obvious that this amendment has not been accepted and I would ask only for one exchange of views – whether I have interpreted it well or perhaps not even when it comes to the objection, because the proposed text states that the objection can be declared against the solution of the first-degree court and the public executioner only when it is prescribed by this law and as a third-party objection. If the objection is interpreted in a broader sense, we have no problem because it is undeniable that the objection is against the first-degree court's decision and the public executioner, and it is also undeniable and that the third-party's objection may arise in a specific case. Here we only have the difference between the legal nature. The legal nature of the objection in a specific case when it comes to a first-degree solution and a public executioner's solution is undoubtedly a legal remedy, but the third-party complaint is something else. It is not a legal remedy but a legal remedy, which is used by a third party in a situation where a person has the right to an instrument of execution and asks to prevent that execution, or to declare inadmissibility of enforcement. Therefore, if I have interpreted correctly, then perhaps this amendment could be accepted. If I'm not, then we're coming into a situation where you have a position that I might be able to share with you that, in a broader sense, the word implies and object as a legal remedy and an objection as a legal tool for a third party. Therefore, it should only be clarified a little because of the courts and public perpetrators in the sense that they have one precise standard in order to avoid potentially different case-laws so as not to reject objections and to interpret them differently. Simply, I think that this is only in some practical sense of the word interesting whether it is necessary to specify or leave such a norm as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59451	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59452	Thank you. It is due to the case-law and the reaction of courts and public perpetrators that we considered it necessary to specify – the principle provision of Article 24 where legal medicines are spoken, where the complaint is, of course, the primary means, the complaint and the complaint of a third party, we consider it to be a form of legal remedy, since you can suspend the procedure and thus act on the enforcement procedure. I say again, it is a principle provision, and in the later provisions, where a third party's complaint is spoken exclusively, it is explicitly stated in which situations and when it can be submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59453	The word is Danica Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59454	Thank you. I am reporting on the amendment to Article 8 submitted by Nedjo Jovanovic and which I support. At the same time, I'm taking the opportunity to say a few words about amendments and additions to this law. The fact is that the perpetrators are very unpopular in the people because of what they do, but also with the amendments and additions to this law, an attempt has been made to protect as many socially endangered categories of population as possible. Namely, there will be no sale of houses and apartments for 5,000 euros in debt to the communals. Instead of the amount of two-thirds of the pension on earnings, the most half will be taken from now on. For the first time since the execution, exceptional maternity benefits have been made. The contractors and their associates and employees will not now be able to buy real estate on public sales, and the sale of apartments and houses will be carried out via electronic sales, i.e. electronic boards, which will certainly prevent their abuse. Also, the deadlines of limitations to prosecute the executioner for 24 months have been extended, which will certainly sanction the mistakes they are making in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59455	The 11th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59456	The insistence of the SRS is that as many of the injustices that have been committed in the previous period by prejudicing and passing an inadequate law are attempted to correct. Of course, we have a simplified view of the clear situation here. On the one hand, as the minister interprets it, we also have increased efficiency and, therefore, greater benefit of the state when it looks at the funds that flow into the budget. On the other hand, we have a great injustice which is done both to trustees and debtors. Trustees because rarely when they can receive adequate compensation, and debtors because they have to settle their debts this way, they are further manipulated by incorrect behaviour, in accordance with the law so far in force by the perpetrators. We interpret that this is the price paid by Serbia so-called. early wild capitalism. Early wild capitalism, it's just like you in the Wild West, who draws first, who's faster on the weapon, can rule. So here and here. The perpetrators behave exactly like that. With them and the knife and the cakes, they're protected by the law, which they don't care about. We've been listening to an example here, even the President of the Assembly has set an example here, a life example. There are countless such examples. Now we here have to decide whether we are in favour of this kind of practice that continues, with little corrections, protecting the state and the benefit of the state, or protecting its citizens? Are the financial benefits and interest of individuals above the citizens' interests? We can discuss it here and have a discussion about how we're going to correct it. There's no correction. When you feel the benefit, the personal benefit, the financial benefit, he doesn't care what you bring with the law. There are countless examples of how behavior is, in accordance with the law, of course, enforcer. Well, you have an example of where he puts you in an administrative ban because of some debts. When you carry out that obligation, when you pay off everything, do you think most of them or all the perpetrators in accordance with the law notify the administration that banned you from your company, in your company? They don't care. It's still standing. You still have, on condition, a legally justified ban, and they do not think to inform your firm or accounting that your obligation has ceased. It's this wild capitalism that's happening in Serbia. And this wild capitalism finds justification in reason -- it's all in accordance with the Charter and we'll move faster into the EU. Ask the citizens, especially those who have bad experiences, if they will be in such a European Union. No one in such a European union.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59457	Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still think we're more angry with the perpetrators, because they are final, than the judges and the previous ones who participate in the whole process and who determine our fate, whether we should be charged or not. I repeat, the judge is not responsible for the decision he makes. The executor responds. I repeat one danger in small areas when it comes to judicial perpetrators. If they deal with some judges, then they can do it in a hurry, if they don't, then we can wait 10, 20 years. All this depends, then, on their will and their relationships in the functions given to them by the state. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are destined to correct the injustices committed by the party of the former regime to a wider layer of citizens. We've got to solve the problems they left us. With a non-resonal change, the adoption of the Law on PIO Insurance, farmers are very damaged. The regulation was that all household members had to pay PIO insurance. That's what the debts are about, I repeat, from 30. 06. In 2013, in today's relationship it's somewhere between 230 and 250 billion, because it's 30. 06. 2013 was a debt to PIO insurance 143 billion 289 million 734 thousand 710 dinars. For healthcare, it was 37 billion 343 million 728 thousand. That was at 30. 06. 2013 Now this total debt, which was then around 170-180 billion, is now safe between 230 and 250 billion. We are left with to solve this problem that the former regime's party has made. The number of debtors is somewhere around 390, 238,000 181 for PIO and 155,000 for health insurance. In the meantime, it probably increased. These people do not have the right to a large number of subsidies and incentives because they are in charge of PIO insurance and health insurance. So they can't get some support from the state because the state, during the former regime, has sinned against them by adopting a regulation that regardless of their economic power, to the size of the land, they have to pay PIO insurance which was not voluntary but mandatory and which included all members of the household, which was devastating for farmers, for agricultural holdings and for the members of the agricultural land. So we're going to have to solve this problem, not just to stick to the perpetrator, but to see together how the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, how to solve this problem. On the one hand, this is an irrevocable debt. You can take their soul, you can take everything from them, the pen doesn't have a soul and the paper suffers everything and here you have those numbers written by the party of the former regime. We have to solve this problem for them, so that they will not be subject to any possible execution, which is not excluded, regardless of our good will. I believe this problem can also be solved if it's good for the state, because insurance would be returned if they were to make some kind of reprogramme, if they were to write off the interest and part of the debt. I believe they would return and the Health Insurance Fund would get new insurances again, and pension and disability insurance would start paying more people again, because now they're not paid to pay their dues because when they pay for it, everything goes to settle the former debt. So, regardless of whether you're paying or not now, they don't have the right to PIO insurance and health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59459	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59460	Thank you, President. Just for a little while. First I want to say something about this amendment. As well as Article 13. The bill refers to a member of the 30th applicable law on enforcement and security. We talked in the principle debate about the shortcomings that are being eliminated by the amendment and supplemental proposal, and I think this is a real example of removing the gaps in the text of the law. Therefore, when it comes to the identification of the executive debtor and the executive trustee, the obligation to indicate the date of birth has been deleted, as it has pointed to case law, as well as the fact that JMBG already contains the date of birth. For a legal person, the obligation to indicate the seat of the domestic legal person has been added. So I used this example to point to one of the objectives of passing this law, which is to remove the shortcomings and incomplete norms and evening the case law. So that I wouldn't keep answering, I was writing something down, so I just want to look back at some of the things that we've talked about so far in this debate in particular. Of course, human and civil rights are in the SNS in the first place, there is no doubt at all, but what we were saying about the efficiency of the proceedings, the efficiency of the procedure is very important for the functioning of a system. This efficiency, we believe, is about to improve and achieve rights. As for this limit to 5,000 euros, in the principle debate, we have repeatedly reiterated here that the only immobility of a natural person cannot be sold for settlement of claims from municipal and related services, if the claim is less than 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent to the middle course of the NBS, on the day of submission of the proposal for execution. As for some debts, I personally know people who are in charge of communal or related services, that the figures are even moving around 5,000 euros and these municipal services are not excluded, but are making reprogrammes that will further show whether the debtor will be able to pay and how this payment will be done. As for the perpetrators, therefore, I really agree that there are some perpetrators who have possibly overstepped their powers or abused them, and by Mrs Kuburovic herself, we have said that some perpetrators are and are relieved, but I do not think they should be generalised. As to the notification of whether the ban was lifted or not, so imagine that I am in debt, I know how much I am in debt, I know how much I paid, I know how many wars it was, but I'm not aware that I paid off my debt. Of course I'm going to go to the executioner and the code, possibly, of a public enterprise or a public utility that I've paid off the debt to say that the ban is lifted. So it's not all about generalizing that all perpetrators are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59461	Would you like to discuss more of your amendment, MP Risticevic? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some perpetrators have done so much evil to individual citizens of Serbia that this entire profession has been unscathed and placed on a pillar of shame. Of course, not all perpetrators are such that there are a vast majority of honest people who do their job in accordance with the norms and the right ones. However, they are not guilty, perhaps, in any case, of the perpetrators, but of the system that enabled them to do so. Here, I had a conversation with a woman last night, and this is pure truth, and I'll tell her later what it's called, if it's right, so the woman is in a war of 600 dinars, some hoodie she didn't take, but her son, she didn't want to drag her through the courts, but she gave it twenty-two, three grand. So for one of the wars, I don't know, that hoodie might have cost two, three thousand, that cost her a total of twenty, two, three thousand. It's a very poor family, and to make trouble even bigger for that same family is a stolen bicycle that costs a lot more than that hoodie. Meanwhile, the perpetrator was found, it's about, let's say, an elderly minor, a person who's also poor, who sold that bike somewhere in another city, spent money and now she can't charge her own. So when it comes to something of hers, she's not able to charge from the state, and what was something very minimal, symbolic, it's the state she took from her. How will this person, this woman look at the legal system and trust this system and this state, tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59463	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'd just like to go on for a little while and point out what he can only use. I would remind you, and probably, you know, the Serbian government was on Corfu in 1918, before breaking the Thessaloniki Front, printing the Civil Code, the Act on Action Society, the Commercial Law, the Law on Mustars and Models, in order to have something to manage free Serbia. I'm pointing this out for a reason why I'd suggest you use more of the Institute for Comparative Law draft law. Under your orders, the Institute of Comparative Law must provide you with a study in order to conclude and see what it is and how it is regulated in other countries. The famous codifier, Professor Mihajl Konstantinovic, was told by the communists – you do whatever you want, except codify the bond law. Realistically speaking, Serbian law has degraded in the last 80 years compared to the state since before World War II, and property has been most affected by civil-legal institutions, which is the worst for the reputation of law and this reputation, our right, has fallen into the eyes of our citizens. It can be very useful to you, Madam Minister, and I believe that you are very bold and very brave, which I appreciate, because in some things you have been the bravest minister in this government, even in all the governments since 2000, because you have said some things to those who have not been pleased to have you present to them on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59465	On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the Protector of Citizens. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59466	Thank you, President. Just for a little while. I answered, because I want to point out the importance of the Civil Protection Institution and praise its involvement in this debate. It is good that it follows the debate and the adoption of laws concerning Serbian citizens. I would also like to say a very short word about an amendment that has not been accepted. The amendment refers to Article 18 which regulates delivery, or if the delivery fails, to make a written statement on the court’s advertising board and the court’s electronic advertising board. The government is of the opinion that the amendment should be rejected for the reasons set out in the reasoning, which I would not now repeat. As for the introduction of an electronic advertising board, it will allow for the information of parties that will be faster, safer and more adequate, if we take into account the development of modern technologies and the possibility of accessing the Internet almost every place in our country. In the process of enforcement, citizens often pointed out that they had not been sent in writing and that the enforcement procedure had not been carried out without even being informed of the initiation of the enforcement procedure or only after the execution had started on pay or pension. Therefore, an efficient mechanism should be set up by the electronic advertising table system to provide citizens with security in the executive procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59467	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59468	Thank you. I would like to inform you that I will be using the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the government in Serbia is able to do for the sake of chapters, the famous Chapter 23, the negotiating framework, the action plan and the guidelines that come from the EU for our judicial system, would not surprise me one day that, due to the EU's guidelines for Chapter 23, we declare a day for the night or vice versa. So far the government in Serbia is able to go to meet EU recommendations. The issue of public enforcement is one of the most important issues that today burdens citizens of Serbia. For eight years, we've only had the rise of these abuses, these powers. We listened to the discussion here on Monday, we could hear that each of the representatives of the ruling majority was informed of negative experiences, of abuses, of the savagery and looting of public perpetrators, but when the statistics are looked at, efficiency is what we need, efficiency in the collection of obligations, i.e. In executing that we now have instead of a million objects, 600,000 unfinished items, or we had 600 now we have 400. It doesn't matter at all. It puts efficiency here as the main principle to be respected. The main thing that is important to us, therefore effective charging, and from this process as the public executioner comes out, and as the debtor comes out, no one cares and no one notices that individual perpetrators have included millions in euro over the past few years. Mrs Gojkovic said on Monday that it is now being created by these perpetrators of a new caste, a new layer of society now living in the exclusive parts of Belgrade or Novi Sad, that these are people who have made a quick fortune, all on the burden of Serbian citizens using the poorest, those who were unable to serve their debt on time. They, apart from being taken away from them from their property, are still taken away from them both their dignity and their civil rights and their human rights. They're these new people today. The Romans called it that, and the nouns that are rapidly enriched, in an untransparent way “homini new. ” Now, that's the layer in Serbia. Several members of the ruling majority shared their impressions here on Monday in their discussions with us from the time they were engaged in law enforcement or when they were working in courts, now the rest of us can't believe how much it was, how ineffective it was, how hard it was to collect debt, etc. It might be better for them to step out of their law offices and look at what the perpetrators have brought to the citizens of Serbia and in what state they are now, here, for eight years. We already have this phenomenon, which is being expressed every year, worse and worse for ordinary citizens of Serbia. So, those who do not have so much debt, which most of them, not those who are in debt out of obstetrics, those who because of their certain living needs, because of their condition of life, took loans or loans, were not able to serve them on time, they suffered and all are taken from them, and those who owe the most, they continue to owe, continue to abuse the law, nothing has changed their position in Serbia. In this regard, there is an obvious link and there is no break-up with the policy and practice of making decisions from the time of DS. I remind you that in 2011, the SNS was against this law, the law passed by the DS, and now this law continues to be respected, i.e. It's still in effect, nothing has been done to change it and to return to its former condition, and we are comforting ourselves here now so that cosmetic amendments to the law in some particulars can correct something that is bad in itself. You know, he can't poison a tree if he's circumcised to produce healthy fruits. One of the largest Serbian lawyers and codifier Valtazar Bogisic passed one of the legal maxims into the general property code for Montenegro: "What is born, the time does not correct". So it's not possible for one bad legal solution, not just because we know it's bad, but we know what it looked like in practice in these eight years, that cosmetic changes or the passing of time change for the better, it's impossible. We can only prolong this agony, not because we care about how the citizens live, but because we appreciate the commendation in the European Commission report, and it should not be hidden, and all MPs from the ranks of the ruling coalition have explained negative experiences and talked about abuses, but everyone will vote neatly for this law and therefore support the existence of public executioners. So, I think the problem is much bigger than these tiny changes, these adjustments, and I don't believe that this power is capable of coping with these obvious abuses of public perpetrators. If we are talking about efficiency, bear in mind that, in the nature of things, the state is less efficient than a private person. But using this logic now that because the courts are overcrowded, it's a pile of paper, they're not able to complete all cases in time, etc., so to give it to a private person to work, we can't do it with the authority and jurisdiction of the state. It's not normal, that a job that needs to be done by the state, to do a private face. Next to that logic, we can say it's in criminal and civil matters, i.e. In criminal and civil litigation, the courts are not effective because the trials last a few years, let's find some privates who will be tried by an emergency procedure and then we won't have so many closed courts anymore, but we'll have a situation where the courts would finally be relieved of their work. That's not normal. The efficiency should be secondary. Everyone should take care of their civil rights, and thus the right to achieve their claim, but not at all costs, and not at the expense of that claim by a third party, which is a public enforcer, could enormously and uncontrollably be enriched, which is today's situation in Serbia. No one controls it and no one cares, because when we look at it on paper, instead of 600,000, we're going to have 500,000 unfinished items. And then we take that as a success. And the fact that in 2017 alone, 3,736 families were left without their home, it was a secondary matter, much less important than what we got from the European Union. To take away someone's right to a home and the right to dignity, it can't be that much of a debt. No debt is greater than human dignity, and the perpetrators are absolutely ruthless on this issue. The Serbian Radical Party, as you know, is the only political party in Serbia that has clearly and loudly advocated the abolition of this practice, the abolition of public executioners, because of all of what we have had the opportunity to see in the last eight years. It's amazing that someone doesn't see it or pretend they don't see it. The fact that an perpetrator was released there, and was that apartment returned if there were obvious abuses? I don't believe he's back. Executors enter houses, i.e. in real estate, debtors, in a ruthless way, they're being thrown out with police escorts, and often those debtors don't even know how much they actually owe, because of these abnormal fees and taxis, or when they're going to be executed. You say, "Well, there's an ad board." Imagine some person who was evicted from his apartment, accompanied by the police, still need to charge him, of course, and the costs of that execution, which someone came to move him out, so it didn't come free to move him out, it had to cover that debtor and those expenses. Well, you know what, you had to go to a communal contractor to see on the ad board when your eviction will be and how much you owe. That's not normal. Please bear in mind that by voting for this law, by voting for the institution of public enforcement, you are continuing with the DS regime and you will take responsibility for everything that public perpetrators in Serbia do, what they do to Serbian citizens, it will eventually fall all over your back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59469	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59470	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I ask you not to forget for a moment that creditors are also citizens of Serbia and that they too have their rights and that the law should also protect them and that the law must also provide them with a way to collect their claims. With this change, we also protect small debtors from losing the only real estate and that's the point of this law. But to go back to Article 18, which this amendment was submitted to, and he is talking about delivering letters and highlighting the solution on the ad board, given that citizens have highlighted it as a problem. We all know that classic advertising tables are very non-transparent and buried, so it's hard to spot a document that applies to you. In addition, countless times someone who is nervous and gunned down because he could not find what he was looking for, stripping, wrinkling, and throwing away the first thing he could get from what was pointed out on the table. Now, that can't happen now, when it comes to the electronic advertising board. In addition, countless times someone who is nervous and gunned down because he could not find what he was looking for, stripping, wrinkling, and throwing the first thing he could reach, from what was pointed out on the table. That can't happen now, when it comes to the electronic advertising board. Another useful thing is the possibility that when you expect a notification from the court, you can leave your e-mail address or phone number, so when it comes out in writing, you get a notice or an e-mail or an SMS message. The solution is practical, because you don't have to go to court any minute and check the board. In addition, delivery will be made at the address, through two handover attempts, if you are not served in writing for the first time, delivery is repeated, but what creates problems for the delivery of court documents to the home address or to the address of the legal person is, in my opinion, the unconsciousness of some court suppliers. However, it is the subject of regulation of another law, but consider that some suppliers are unconscious and therefore the problem arises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59471	Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59472	I thank the president. Dear MPs, during the previous discussion, we had the opportunity to hear a few things that are essentially incorrect, above all that citizens cannot be informed about whether an executive procedure has been launched and that this is being notified on the Chamber's advertising board. Why do we not have the opportunity, very often to deliver information to executive debtors? Because debtors very often do not respect the Law on residence, do not report their addresses, but report fictitious addresses and therefore there is no possibility of handing in person and therefore the advertising board is used. But no executioner's advertising board is used, the court's advertising board is used. Cosmetic changes did not follow the changes and additions of this law, but essentially changes, just one of them is the introduction of an electronic advertising board, just so we don't get what's going on in practice, that this is what the court's advertising board looks like, where citizens need to know whether a solution is made and whether it applies to them or not. So certainly transparency, visibility will be improved in this way. We had the opportunity to hear in the previous discussion whether debt from municipal claims could reach the amount of 5,000 dinars, I wouldn't have said anything if I hadn't had the opportunity to make sure, if I hadn't had the opportunity to see the statistics for which the payment was made, and when it comes to Belgrade, very often you have debts for the demand for info, and which amount to up to a million dinars. You can very easily check that, you can contact the info room to tell you that there are such debtors. Very often they are not poor faces, very often they are public figures, very often persons who live luxuriously and do not live up to their obligations. So I ask the question, should we also exempt them from the execution process and allow them to continue to owe such large amounts and have the opportunity to pay the same debts?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59473	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59474	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, when someone owes a million dinars for the info, and still a luxury lives, he still doesn't care about serving his debt, so that's exactly what I was talking about. Those who owe the most, who abuse the law, who want to play the law, no one touches them, and that's obvious. And to make some ordinary citizen, with ordinary incomes, i.e. average income, had a debt of 600,000 dinars for municipal claims, that's one in a million. This is simply not possible and our inefficient state-owned enterprises, such as EPS, rule out electricity when up to 50,000 dinars of electricity bill, with interest, not 600,000. It's just not possible. Let's not talk about the fundamental changes, that the fundamental change is the electronic board. It's not a fundamental change, it's a trivial change, compared to what we have so far. A fundamental change would be to see to it that a third party does not earn on a debtor's misfortune, who is unable to pay what is due. That would be a fundamental change, not an electronic board. Mrs Kovacevic said that creditors are also citizens of Serbia. Well, they are and they need maximum protection rights, but here, a third person from a debt-trust relationship is benefiting the most. That's what's problematic, and that property benefit could've been the state's income, but if it were all normal and at reasonable prices, that's interest or taxes, anyway. No one thinks about it, no one sees it as an important and big problem, and that would be the only fundamental change in the current system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59475	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. He's got his word for the amendment, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59476	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, here, I was pulled by this discussion of a distinguished colleague who made one claim that I like, it is that this law is actually a continuation of what the DS was doing and continuity as you put it. I voted against this law on perpetrators in 2011. I now support the amendments to this law because I believe that these changes are a step forward and what I would simply ask the honourable minister for is that these are not the last changes to this law. What I can always agree with you is the abuses that the perpetrators have, but on the other hand, if we want to pursue an orderly system like we have in the West, the perpetrators are needed, but the question is whether their pricers are also needed, the costs of execution in the process, and on the other hand whether the Ministry of Justice and the police above all can wash out the abuses that occur when real estate is sold. I think that's a key problem. You see if an organized group of people are just selling real estates from apartments, from over unfortunately land and everything else, especially agricultural land. What the Minister said, in part, I agree, for many years I have been the president of the municipality, and unfortunately, it often happens that for municipal services the most owed ones and those who have the most money. On the other hand, pensioners and those who are the poorest in paying sometimes have the least, but on the other hand, the abuses we unfortunately have with the perpetrators, but even more at the notaries, that we have received a group of people who were bad interns in law offices, assistants by courts who drive luxury jeeps today and the most expensive cars in municipalities. That's the problem we need to talk about. What I would like to point out once again, when we speak, a colleague of mine has been respected, said that trustees and citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose rights we need to protect, and I fully agree with that, I will just point out one small example where if there were no private perpetrators, there would be no realisation of court rulings, and these are claims from 2014 by a group of farmers from the municipality of Topol who sued the then-Secure for emergency situations for damages from the city. Finally, there were some 99 lawsuits that were more than 700 thousand euros in total. The Court of Appeal confirmed that the state and emergency sector's error has caused damage since then, at that time, 14m euros to peasants where everything was destroyed. They've succeeded, not all of them are yet, but they're subsectively charged only thanks to private contractors, if it were up to the public, it would never have been charged. So on the other hand, you have something that's good and it's bad, but on the other hand, the restrictions that the ministry brings with its amendments, I think it's good, and that's why I'm going to vote for amendments and additions to this law with one more, I say, a request and a request from the minister not to stop this and try to further reduce and limit. What I support my colleague, I think, regardless of the level of debt, for a four-member family, if the householder is burdened with a debt greater than 5,000 euros in residential space, and we already have that in some of the Western countries, it must not and cannot be sold. I fully agree with that, as I agree with the farmer, in the peasants, not to list a means of working, such as a tractor. And it must not be alienated, it must be made clear to everyone and must be told to everyone. But here's what pulled me back when you said -- in 2011, it's true, but on the other hand, I have to warn you one more time, it's not just the perpetrators you, I think we have an even bigger problem with the notaries. It's just their wealth as much as it is, so it's a special story. That's why one more call for a minister not to stop with this kind of change and to move forward bravely and try to cut things like this down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59477	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The right to a replica after it later appeared to me in the system, Studenka Kovacevic, to present Alexander Seselj, and then Alexander Seselj. You have a chance to discuss Mr. Jovanovic, if that's all right with you. In the words of the People's Messenger Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59478	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Marinkovic. I would not miss the chance to say that I am glad that my colleague Seselj and I agree that trusts are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia and should be considered objectively. However, as far as the perpetrators are concerned, I agree that there are also those who have broken the law and we have heard from Minister Kuburovic that some are, even, resolved. They are under the control of the Ministry of Justice, and for actions contrary to the law, they also correspond to their own property. So I absolutely support the sanctioning of all those perpetrators who break the law. The law must apply to everything equally. I hope that's objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59479	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59480	First of all, I have in mind the legal experience of certain countries and certain legal solutions in our country from before. So legal maximums exist from Roman law, which when read from Serbian codifications sounds: “As the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct. ” What's wrong with the foundation, which is bad in nature, can't be corrected by tiny corrections, it's impossible. We can only fool ourselves, mask the real problems that the public enforcement institution introduces to Serbia. I agree with my colleague Jovanovic, who also spoke about notaries. Yeah, it's a new caste of people in Serbia, notaries, i.e. public notebooks, public executioners, who have become enormously rich for a very short period of time and who absolutely do not care about the citizens and their interests. Continuity exists because the SNS voted against the 2011 enforcement law, and today in 2015, supports the law on enforcement. Let's break up with bad practice. One of the worst flows of the DS government is the Law on Public Executors. It's the law of execution and security. The facility has proved to be disastrous and has disastrous consequences for Serbian citizens. The executioner’s dispensation was not taken into account after the damage he had done in his work. Are those apartments returned, is that the money he took back, with him being cleared? It's not. He just took his money and interrupted abuse and made a fortune unfounded on Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59481	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Jovanovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59482	I thank you, Chairman. I think it's even a little bit dangerous to get out of here, to get a message out of this house to the citizens that means something that citizens can misread. It is on the one hand the stigmatisation of public perpetrators, and on the other hand, that trustees will never be able to collect their claims. I don't think that such an approach should exist, and on the other hand, we are in favour of sanctioning everything that implies illegal action in the work of public executioners, and that is the strictest. When it comes to the enormous profits of public executioners, it is a fact that we all agree on and that is something that no one doubts. The revenues generated by public executioners are indeed high. I don't want to justify it in any way, so to speak, without being rude, quick to enrich public executioners, but on the other hand, if we have in mind the fact that those who carry out court decisions, execute a verdict, and satisfy trustees' claims, then they must have adequate rewards. When I say rewards, they must be adequate. In any case, those who would imply something that implies a luxuriant action to only benefit, and if there were no proportion between the benefits of public enforcement and the services provided, or what they are doing in their business, and yet they are still carrying out all that has been given to them in law, and I repeat for the hundredth time, they are only carrying out court decisions. I fully understand the motives of my esteemed colleague Dragan Jovanovic when he drew attention to the executions on immovable property, both agricultural households and immovable property owned by executive debtors when it comes to family houses, facilities and the like. However, what I must draw attention to is that there is likely to be insufficient understanding of certain provisions of the law on enforcement and security that we are discussing, and precisely, in this bill, there is a very clearly defined principle of disproportionateness. And now, this final principle of disproportionateity will no longer be misused or abused by public perpetrators. With utility services, we already have a very clear position and a very clear definition. In those other situations where executive debtors appear and those who have immobility or the only immovableity they have and which can be a means of execution, because there is no other, then the principle of proportions are respected, but I will repeat what I said in the opening part, there are very sensitive issues that must be responded and executed, because if the executive debtor has a house worth half a million euros, and the debt owed to an ordinary citizen of 15,000 euros, then it is impossible for him to have a luxury facility that he owes 15,000 euros, which he will not pay back, and that he can buy at least three in which he can live, not only him, but who knows how many of his connected persons, and in that time to suffer an executive trust, something that is existent for him, which allows him to have any security in life. Therefore, we need to be very reasonable here, because the situations are different, "ad hoc" and then, let the perpetrators, that this principle of disproportionateity that is prescribed by law properly apply, that they respect the principle of disproportionateness, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to protect executive debtors in social categories, but also to protect the interests of executive creditors where executions can be carried out. Such situations exist, and that is why we need to be sensitive. When it comes to the protection of executive debtors, and I think it is the esteemed president and cited in its amendment, I fully understand the initiatives and motives that generated this amendment and in some way I could support it, but I will re-emerge the principle of proportion in this bill, giving the perpetrators the opportunity to act fairly, legally and to protect the interests of the creditors, and on the other hand all executive debtors in social categories to protect against anything that would imply harm to those executive debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59483	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59484	Let me make a deal first whether or not we're going to discuss the amendments or we're going back to the debate in principle. So Ambassador Jovanovic speaks very nicely. Well done. You're a lawyer and you have this practice in the courtroom to dominate and make arguments on the side of obviously one side that you represent. That's how I imagine your appearance on the amendment of Ambassador Seselj. I saw in the paper that I was not in good relations with Minister Nela Kuburovic. It's something new for me to notice on the front pages, even though I'm the advocate of that theory -- a better beautiful picture than what it really is, because that's how we're going to get on the popularity. You've got nice pictures. Not bad. They're not very good, but they're not bad either. We'll get both at popularity. No, we're not exactly in a fight. I don't know why there's an opinion in the public if you don't agree with someone 100% or if you're an MP who works on the quality of the law and amendments responds to certain gaps in these changes and additions, that you are immediately an enemy to someone who has proposed? It is not and will not be, at least in my way of understanding the work of MPs. I would like MP Jovanovic to show me the case where someone in a several million-euro villa owed some man several thousand euros, so now the executioner should kick him out of that villa, because he will not pay this few thousand euros back. We haven't talked about cases like this in two days, and I don't realize that it's an executive's job to be exclusively on the side of the trustees. Neither was the court on the side of the trustee when he had the tasks of executing a certain criminal document, or was I living in another time? The perpetrator, according to this law, which we all agreed here was not good, some of us didn't vote when they were at the opportunity, I wasn't an MP, I don't know if I would vote, I don't have a clue, I can't talk about what used to be, but it's obvious that the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are seeing it, because there are a lot of changes and additions here. When there are many changes and additions, the only solution is to get a new proposal for execution and security in a little while. We have to get him. Practice has denied that this is a good law. People who have been trusted to do the job of the executioner have not fully understood their role in our society. They didn't get it right, and we didn't get it right. We've easily gone over it, and about their basic rewards and about the percentages they get at the end of an I.D. Those percentages are huge. They took that chance, but today we have an odym of the public, not only the debtor, but the general public, how we made an extremely wealthy class of people, and we did that. I don't mind, but you see the anomalies... I don't mind, I'm not a communist. I'm glad there are rich people in our society, but then we have such anomalies that individuals in that branch managed to get rich in a short time, and they couldn't just respect the provisions of the law to do so. They simply could not comply with the provisions of the law to become extremely wealthy people in our society. Today, when you want to sell someone a good real estate in a good position in Belgrade, the easiest thing to do is to go to the executioner and look for clients for something like that. On the other hand, we solve the problem of executing judgments by creating new social cases, kicking people out of the only housing units they have. Well, what have we done? Someone said, and that sounds good, that we have to take care of debtors who, for example, want women and children to charge for maintenance. Okay, so that means there's no income and we're going to charge by kicking him out of some apartment, and I don't know, by making a commitment. Obligations reached, period. From what will his children be supported in the future then? What will it be supported from? We have to make one compromise between the needs of the debtors and, on the other hand, what and in which direction we're directing to settle the debt by selling the housing units the only ones in which they live, again, some family, which suggests that if we're going to sell the housing units, they don't have any income at all. Now, I don't understand what's going to happen if that debt, as you've stated, is an esteemed colleague of some size, and now it's a 30-40-square-square housing unit and we've settled a small portion of the debt? Well, that didn't do much for the debtor, we just made a new problem. We need to sit down. I have nothing against my distinguished colleague, the minister and member of the party from which we are from, and I will vote for every bill you propose, it is nothing disputed, but I ask you to take the individual amendments in good faith. Not only does Pera Petrovic seem right about his amendments, so you can put him up for the amendments. None of us thought badly, but we want to correct certain anomalies and correct the bill in the right sense of the word. I'm not happy with the explanation, I'm waiting for us to get to Article 138, because it seems to me like those who have prepared you haven't even looked at the amendment, the essence of what I wanted, but wrote – your amendment has nothing to do with these documents here. Well, I know. That's exactly what I said with my amendment, that one and the other members of the Law were not in line. In my explanation, when you turned me down, it says I'm right, but I can't do it now, only to turn my hands to the MPs to support me, so we can put it out loud. (Milorad Mircic: Call the perpetrators. I don't want to take any more time... Should I call the executor? I don't have the money to give him the prize of what he expected. So, I won't take the time, but until the debate is over, think about some more amendments. Well, nothing will happen if some amendment of an MP is adopted and it means a lot to help the perpetrators, but to help both creditors and debtors. One to come up with the amount of money of their own, but also others, not to create a new problem in society, and you've seen it through all these examples that simply because of some small debt, people stay on the streets. Another problem, these are enormous interest rates. How come so much interest in a society where there's no inflation? These are abnormal interest rates. You settle the basic debt, but the interest is not even I know how much more. Well, the costs of the executioner are higher, higher than that basic debt. That's what MPs are talking about here. They're not talking about the government not doing anything right, they're not talking about the anomalies that were made in the implementation of this law. Can't make interest debt that much bigger than basic debt. It'll never be charged. We can also have electronic tables, we can also have executioners to make certain warnings and penalties, or we forbid them to do so, but there will never be any debts charged. If you pay them off by selling some real estate, you can never pay the interest, not even the cost of the executioner, and that's how it is, and that's life. We can have a good letter on paper here, however we want, we have to represent people and represent the life that's going on around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59485	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Right on line, MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59486	Dear Chairman, distinguished counterpart Nedja Jovanovic mentioned me precisely in this work that President Gojkovic now spoke of and whose exposure I fully agree with. It's disproportionate, but a colleague, when you said someone was gardening in the villa, and he owes it to the communals and any debts, and of course he needs to be sold that villa, but it's interesting, and here, now I'd like the minister to tell me, so I'm just asking for a little attention. If you've looked, and I'd like to, I don't know how many MPs there are, just before coming into this room I've watched statisticalally to look at, someone mentioned that number at 750, I mean, real estate as much as it was sold. People, 80% of these are apartments and they're apartments up to 70 square meters. And that's what I just said why I advocated, that if you have a four-member family that has a 60-square apartment, regardless of whether or not the family carrier was an entrepreneur, then one way or another, it's either a fraud or no matter how, the state can't afford to sell him an apartment that's the only residential unit. That's what I'm talking about. Believe me, look at the statistics, I haven't seen a single villa with a pool there and that's the basic problem, and that's why I totally agree with my colleague Gojkovic that we need a new law soon, and that might be the most just solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59487	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the line has Mr. Alexander Seselj. There you go, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59488	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, the data is 3.736 residential units, i.e. Real estate only in 2017 and you're right, it's mostly apartments up to 80 square meters, so smaller housing units, nothing luxurious, nothing exclusive and nothing exclusive, such as Belgrade. No one around here has been able to stegmatize the executors, i.e. those people because of these people. It is simply a big problem that a third party is enormously, without the controlled wealth of a debt-backed relationship and mostly on the burden of the poorest who, due to objective circumstances, cannot pay their debt. Mrs. Gojkovic noticed well what would happen if someone sold a 30-square apartment, and she owed more than that. Well, I wouldn't be surprised if the perpetrator, since he has all the freedom, has all the rights here, comes to the conclusion that this debtor has two kidneys, so one could settle down from one kidney, which, if not, a man can survive with one kidney. We are not far from such solutions with the appearance of public executioners. Keep that in mind. Mr. Jovanovic can talk about it, he has experience in practice, and he is consistent since he was a public executive in 2011 and there is nothing to be resented, but here a basic problem, I don't mean you, Mr. Dragan Jovanovic, I mean the SPS. So the problem here is that abuse is a rule, not an exception, which is an abnormal wealth at the expense of the poorest debtors, not an exception. Keep that in mind, and that by continuing this practice, not only will we need a new law, but we will not have the opportunity to correct all the mistakes and all the things that public executioners have done to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59489	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Mr. Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59490	I thank the chairman. As much as President Gojkovic and Ministers are not respected in the conflict, we are not in conflict, nor am I, nor are I, nor are President Gojkovic, because we bear joint responsibility and share responsibility for quality legal solutions. That's why we're here. With her doing her job perfectly, which is for respect and respect, but there is one little misunderstanding. I've just affirmed your motives and initiatives for that amendment that you expect when it will be your turn to discuss. I think Mr. Jovanovic is knocking on the open door, and here's why. Neither am I here in the Assembly representing either the trustees or the debtors. Our goal as MPs is to pass a law that will protect both creditors and debtors. It's something that's undeniable. What's causing the dilemma here now is the fact that if there's an immovableity as the only immovableity of a family of four, five-members, etc., which owes some money, there's a burden of debt, does it then sell that immovableity for something that would be disproportionate to the amount of debt? Of course not. As a result, the principle of proportion between the level of claim and the value of the means of execution which is the subject of execution, i.e. that facility, and the house, will be respected. So there is absolutely protection in this law, there is protection of executive debtors from being damaged in this situation. Since I've been asked a question where are those who have such wealth, here I am going to answer you. After criminal privatisations during the DS, the most criminal privatisations since 2001, there are many who have acquired enormous wealth, which are... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59491	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59492	Very briefly, you've given others a lot more time, tolerate me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59493	Ten seconds, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59494	It's not that much, but come on. So, anyway, I'll use group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59495	Here you go. It's not a replica. I answered the amendment. [[Maya Gojkovic: Can't do the replica.]] Call again, what can I tell you, I can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59497	I answered after the amendment. I'll finish it, very briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59498	Come in, you must again, I must give Mr. Jovanovic a chance. The replica now has Dragan Jovanovic. No, I don't. We have a colleague from the SPS after the amendment, I assume, first is Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59499	Thank you, my dear. I would have been involved in this debate, which apparently attracted a great deal of attention from all MPs, supporting one idea of our overall struggles and plots when it comes to this law, which has shown that we are all on the side of those who can by this law and who have been in many forms of practice so far, that they are not in the future. I am speaking from an ordinary citizen's point of view, so I have no rhetoric and a way of expressing myself, a disconvincing which we all see very clearly, that Mr. Neđo Jovanovic has, and that I will support the evaluation of the Honorable President of Parliament, that Mr. Neđo Jovanovic has very clearly explained to his rhetoric, but I did not understand that in his discussion there is one special protection of the third category, or third participant in this process, but one commitment to the equality of relations and respect for the rights of the owner, rights of debtors and rights, i.e. obligations and responsibilities that this part of the law should be carried out and carried out. The scarcity, apparently, of the application of these laws is out of control, in abuse, and the proposal to amend the law is precisely experiencing in such a way that such practices should be disabled in the future. I would respect and very much respect everything that has been said in the debate so far and for the protection of all the social categories that Mrs Gojkovic has spoken of here, and what she has particularly pointed out with her amendment, which is also Mr Alexander Seselj, of course, has pointed out so far, but I would strongly advocate that this is not the end of the debate, respecting all the problems that exist. I say, once again, I very much respect all the proposed amendments and additions, but I will also point out that, as far as I have seen and the report from the Ministry, or the government has adopted six amendments by the MPs, and has not adopted 125. I wouldn't say that all 125 amendments were inappropriate to the spirit of what we're talking about, a practice that should lead to much greater improvement in this law. It is an additional argument for me to ask that by respecting the needs of the citizens, respecting the necessity of their protection against abuse and all kinds of endangerment of life, dignity and survival of the family, we are obliged to prevent even more drastic changes of the law in the coming period. I would even suggest some aspects in the preparation of this new proposal, public debate, or debates in certain professional bodies or here in parliament before a final proposal that would just respect what European practice is, what European laws are, because we are absolutely seeking it, but also something that is the direct conditions of life and the possibilities of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59500	Thank you, Reverend Mrs. Dragash. The right to replica has Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59501	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. First of all, as far as the question is concerned, that some debtor should be left without a roof over his head, which is very often, i.e. in most cases, it happens when due to some debt that is not in the value of this real estate sale, and it is usually the citizens of Serbia who have an average income and a middle class at all, as regards an economic standard in Serbia. You're hit most of the time by public executioners. What we propose, which we advocate, is that if there is a payment of a debt that must be charged with real estate for someone who has not served the debt in time, it must remain mandatory for each debtor per family member of a minimum of 10 squares. That's what you can't touch when it comes to that bill. And because of small debts that are not so much as the value of an apartment or a house to prey on a house or apartment and then to sell at much lower prices than the market value, someone to buy it who is connected to public executioners, therefore, the situation should be fought by the Ministry of Justice and the Serbian Government. There are many such examples in Serbia, they are the most common, only in 2017 3,736. Look at the statistics, while we're boasting about statistics. What is crucial is that the interest of citizens, their dignity and human rights are not the first thing when we talk about execution and the law of execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59502	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has been made by the People's MP Marjana Marash, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59503	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting for the amendment, and given the course of the debate, the Honorable Minister, we, both on the left and on the right, and here at the center, can agree that we need a new law. From the very reasons that you have made with the proposal to amend and supplement this law, you have cited some ambiguities, inaccuracies and abuses by the perpetrators. We certainly advocate that fundamental rights cannot be compromised and that citizens who are in debt must be allowed to continue a dignified life. It is inappropriate for their only real estate to be sold regardless of the disproportionately small debt. Here it was an attempt under this law to protect the economically weaker layers of society. For this reason there are also increased thresholds in terms of both salaries and pensions, but the whole debate today according to the amendments shows that we need a new law in the near future, and that you are considering today's debate to accept some more amendments until the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59504	Thank you, Mrs. Marash. The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59505	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with a team of fellow Members and MPs, is firstly very pleased that we have come to an amendment and supplementation of this law, this law which is increasingly burdening our citizens and citizens. It is very important that what has been amended by these amendments and the additions of the Law. I'm glad that some amendments have been accepted and I think that there has really been a misunderstanding about the debate on the last amendment. Namely, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group are much in favour of the social layer, therefore, the endangered social layer of our society, for those who do not have the opportunity to meet their needs, to settle their accounts and of course will always side with citizens and citizens and their problems in terms of co-operation with the perpetrators. What I'm trying to say is that we'll never put ahead of what's most important for the survival of our society, never before will be the perpetrators, and I don't see why any misunderstanding would exist about it. It is very important for our citizens and citizens that we know that this law is in this very sense and that all these amendments go hand in hand to all citizens, that there will be no controversy at all about whether we will exclusively work on the new law announced by the Minister, therefore, that it will be proposed to the National Assembly and amendments that will re-apply and improve that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59506	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59507	Thank you. Let's finally remove some dilemmas, and I don't think there's any dilemma here. It's all clear, more than clear. The principle of proportions prescribed by the proposed law gives absolute protection to those executive debtors who really need to enjoy such protection. When you listed here, or when certain MPs listed, you asked more questions about where anyone could be so rich that he could not be reconciled, well, here, I'm going to give you an example in court practice. It's about a physical face and a legal face. A natural face has invested 15,000 euros to buy an apartment in construction. It gave an advance on the name of the purchase price for an apartment to be built within a certain deadline. Construction of that facility or apartment never occurred, 15,000 ended up in the pocket of a person. The company that built the apartments went bankrupt, and the one who unfoundedly got rich won't pay that man back. So 15,000 holds something with him that is an existential question for the buyer of the apartment, because he gave that 15,000 just to come up with a solution to the housing issue. Meanwhile, the fact has been found that the one who unfoundedly enriched for the 15,000 euros has an apartment in downtown Belgrade, in a strict centre, not to say Belgrade's epicenter, three-room, 110 squares. Given that the price of the apartment is at least 2,000 euros in that location, that means that this apartment is worth over 200,000 euros. When a proposal for enforcement and a statement of objection has been submitted, the court makes a catastrophic mistake and says that because of the violation of the principle of proportionality, it refuses to charge the executive trustee out of the immobility of the executive debtor, and you see what is the disproportion and binds his hands to the executive trustee, because he makes a decision in the form of a conclusion rather than in the form of a solution. No legal remedy is allowed against the conclusion. And then the executive trustee remains completely disabled to collect his claim. And that's the court's fault. And here we've been stegmatizing public executioners all along, and I'm telling you what the court has done. And the court tied Periæ's hands so he couldn't make his claim. Now let's forget about the public executioner. Now, bear in mind that this very bill gives the principle of proportions a narrow opportunity for the public perpetrator to abuse this, because there is the possibility of a legal remedy and a legal remedy, however we interpret it, whether a third party's objection will be a legal remedy or a legal remedy. Anyway, it'll be an effective legal remedy. What I wanted to answer, when we were just discussing this topic and on these issues, was asked a question – where do so much property and so much wealth for individuals? Well, these are the ones who sucked everything out of Magnochromium in the King, the ones who took everything out of Rakovica, the ones who left the ghostly empty halls, who took the maltene radiators off the walls, left tens of thousands of employees on the streets, e, with them there is this wealth, that capital that in no way can be brought into proportion to the disproportionateness between the demand for any employee who had the consequence of experiencing such status in relation to them as executive debtors who have enormous capital. This is what is essential when we talk about the principle of proportion between the value of immovableity or any means of execution and the claim owed to the executive debtor. That's why I supported it, and I'll always support a more restrictive interpretation of the principle of proportion, and I think we've come to that end by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59508	Thank you. We're moving on with our work. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59509	Never replace the thesis again, but in this debate. Authorities began to oppose our arguments, and they have no arguments, to tell some sad stories about how perpetrators help single parents, to charge child support, etc. I'd like to see where the team was particularly concerned, where they have no use at all. Also, there were speeches here, again to distract attention from the fundamental problem, that there are some wealthy people, there in a country of Serbia, who have huge debts to public enterprises and now public executioners will charge them for it. We don't talk about individuals like that here. This is a system law. We are talking about system solutions, and this law covers the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, you all know, you live in this country, there is no one who is more hated today in Serbia than public executioners. There are these 200, 300 people who go through Serbia, do whatever they want. Of course, it's not our problem that someone's rich. There was talk here that bothered us that they were getting rich. It's not our problem that someone's rich. Oh, God, and I wish I could get as many rich people in Serbia as I can. Our problem is that perpetrators are rich in abuses. The truth is, more colleagues said that we should pass a new law, we recommend you to be patient, because in October we are going out with a new bill that will be attached to more than 100,000 signatures of citizens who agree with such a law, so to speak, we will be ready for the amendments and the exchange of arguments and everything. This just can't survive. This is what you're trying to do in my member, where I put the amendment, you're talking about delivery. Yesterday we talked about the delivery problems. Electronic board advertising is not a solution. She's supposed to be the one. A colleague came out to ask her if there was a fair in Zlot, Sumrakova, Brestovac, Sarbanovac and other villages of Bora, because she advocated and said that the rescue was this electronic board.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59510	Thank you. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59511	Your Honor, I must agree that I will never replace the thesis more than during this debate, but I am glad that we are posemising and that everyone is expressing our position. Let me just look back at the previous speakers. I haven't said for a moment that we're going to pass a new law. I stand firmly behind this proposal to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security, and I believe that we will get one quality text that will remove all misunderstandings. Also, it doesn't appear anywhere that we've given an explanation that because of the abuse of the perpetrator we're changing the law, it's not true, first of all. The only abuse mentioned is abuse in the sale of public immovableity, but we are not talking about abuses of perpetrators, but abuses by participants who sell their existence themselves. I think we're the first ministry, the first state body to ever talk about abuses in the sale of immovable property, and believe that's why we didn't get praise from many, because by introducing electronic public sales, we're going to hurt those who just did those abuses in the previous years. It's not just when a public contractor sells. That's what happened when the public sale went to court. I'll remind you that by July 1st 2016, most of the sales of immovable property went through court. It was the court who was selling real estates worth 30% of the estimated value. You have a large number of cases where people in the courts have just been buying these immovableities without talking about selling cars where employees also participated in the purchases, so the abuses that occurred during public sales are not only related to the work of public contractors. They have exclusive jurisdiction when it comes to enforcement from 1 July 2016, but until then the courts have acted and there are still cases in which courts continue to act. It's not a small number of objects. These are all those cases where the 2016 creditors did not declare that the cases were passed to public enforcement officers, so that everything you speak of is both about the court's conduct and the conduct of public perpetrators. We had the opportunity to listen several times when, for example, in 2017 there were 3,770 units sold. It was maybe 3,700 immovableity, but when it comes to immovable property, it's not always housing units and it's not just about the debtor who has one apartment. It was a large number of hotel sales. I can only say for Belgrade that the execution route was at the sale of three hotels. They can be business premises, they can be farm estates, so don't let us distract the citizens about what's going on. When housing units are sold, it's mostly about those mortgage properties, where the debtor himself agreed that if he doesn't pay off the debt in time, that property he gave for security can be sold. It is a very small number of real estates sold due to small debts or debts arising from municipal claims. When we talk about selling residential immovableities through a public debate, we need to deal with facts, we need to handle specific cases, and whether there have been disproportionate injuries with the perpetrators, I can give you a large number of cases where there have been disproportionate injuries to the sale by the courts. This is not the way to end public enforcement and restore jurisdiction to courts, and we think that we will achieve a more efficient system. The courts proved ineffective. Just thanks to their efficient work we came to a situation in 2011 that we have over two million executives. It is precisely because of their effective work that we still have close to 700,000 unsolved executive cases that the courts, whatever you do, will absolutely never end. Finally, when we talk about compensation for the work of public contractors, I have to remind you that in 2016 we changed the enforcement tariff that was reduced compared to the one applied since 2011, and it has been drastically reduced. How's it cut? By limiting the amounts that the executioner could receive as a reward, unlike the previous period where the limit was not and depending on the amount of the claim he charged. Also, a large part of the other costs have been lifted, but I have announced that during the coming week, there will likely be a new public enforcement tariff that will be significantly reduced. When you're talking about court, I have to remind you, it's not a free execution in court. There's a court fee to be paid. This court fee is absolutely not small, which means that the costs of the debtor in the court proceedings are not small. Only on behalf of the fee for the submission of a proposal for execution and for decision-making can you reach an amount of 500,000 dinars. That anyone can confirm to you if he's a lawyer, if he's acting in business disputes, so execution in court is not free of charge. The second thing is whether the courts charged court fees and why we came to the situation that we had several billion unpaid court fees -- because the courts weren't up-to-date, and thus denied themselves an increase in funds that needed to improve their material position. So the execution for the debtor is never free. The costs always fall on his burden, the question is just how much you will have in the course of the execution, whether during the execution, they will voluntarily pay or wait for more funds to be determined during the procedure, whether it is necessary to carry out the skill. These are all expenses that, no matter who executes them, fall upon the burden of the debtor. Whether they are large, depends certainly on the level of demand, but there are appropriate limits and I re-announce, for the first time, will be a drastically reduced enforcement tariff. Once again, you often rely on laws that were in force until 2011, but this is a proposal that for the first time reduces burden limits both on wages and pensions. There's always been a two-thirds restriction on pensions to one-half. Now for the first time comes the pay limit of one half and the pension to one third. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) Okay, but it'll be reduced, anyway. I hope that, although we have a different discussion by the MPs, this bill will still be passed and that these limits will be reduced very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59512	Thank you, Madam Minister. Now the word has the Faith Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59513	Mrs. Kuburovic, you've brought up a lot of problems in the functioning of the courts and we fully agree on that. But the problem is not solved by a less-resistance line, but solved systematically, in courts, in the judicial branch of the government. If, because of the ineffectiveness of the courts, you have removed the executions from the executions, you have or we have a major problem in long-term litigation. Well, then what do we do? You want to organize 200 or 300 people on a quick-knock course and take over a lawsuit? It's not the problem that's being solved. The point is what the Serbian Radical Party says - that no one can be taken away, regardless of the debt, no one can be taken away from the apartment. There's no right for a country to be a real homeless person from its own citizen, from his family. Nobody. How did that debt come about? A part of the responsibility must be borne by the one who participated with him in making the debt. Is that a bank? Well, the bank had to count on the possibility that this man could get sick, that he could get fired, etc. We don't mind the debt coming back, but, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's just, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's just let's, uh, uh, uh, let's just, uh, uh, Well, it's the end of the week, so let's keep him paying off his pension. Well, how much you pay back. But you, the state, leave some family that only has one apartment, one man, and that's one family, we can't throw anyone out on the street for some debt. That's the point. It's an irresponsible state. We have all kinds of cases in practice. I assume you know the case of an executor from Leskovec, who's even been arrested. He took 23 million dinars from the debtors, in a dedicated account, with the obligation to pay them to the creditors. He didn't do it, he gave some Mora Eco Pellet to a company that he shared that money with. So there are various kinds of abuses. (President: Thank you. Just one sentence, please. So this one from Leskovec was expelled from the executioner and I'm just afraid the poor guy didn't end up in the notaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59514	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59515	It is true that a criminal case has been brought against the perpetrator from Leskovec and that perpetrator is currently suspended. I made a solution to his suspension until the criminal trial was over, so we reacted immediately. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) In any case, the D.A.'s office, i.e. the D.A.'s special department in Nis, also acts and the tax administration is also involved, so that we will see by the end of the procedure how it will end and whether it will be held accountable. Please note that the state needs to ensure the right to residence. So I ask you -- and what about those citizens who are tenants, who don't have their own apartments and have absolutely no debts? Is the state supposed to give them the right to live or not? The abuses committed by the perpetrators, don't think there's no such thing in court. You mention Leskovac, and I'll remind you, we had a chance to talk and when I was in the Assembly in May, that you had a basic court in Nis where several hundred thousand euros were missing from the court's deposit. So whether it's an perpetrator or a court, it doesn't limit the fact that there can't be any abuse or execution of a crime, or whether we're going to give something to the court's jurisdiction, it's not a guarantee that there won't be any abuse. I certainly believe that anyone who commits any abuse should be sanctioned. We at the Ministry absolutely treat every complaint that comes from the citizens. We're also doing direct surveillance, not just based on the written papers we get. I've already told you that several criminal proceedings have been initiated, and by our side, several disciplinary proceedings, which have been concluded by a ban on the exercise of enforcement, and I would like, just as the ministry is effective, and our disciplinary commission, that it may be a more efficient and disciplinary board of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59516	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59517	It's nice, Mrs. Kuburovic, that you obviously know mostly about all these cases that we're talking about. So you're interested in what you're doing, but the answer to the question -- the one from Leskovec v, the perpetrator, who's being prosecuted, took 23 million dinars from the debtor, didn't give them to the trustees. So he damaged both of them. What about that money? Why didn't you take away everything he had to settle both the debtor and the trustee? Why didn't you send him another executor to take him? I'm replacing thesis with you again. I said that the position of the SRS is that no state, no state should make a homeless person, so no one should be allowed to take an apartment as the only immovableity no matter how much he owes. You say, "What do we do to those who don't have an apartment?" We didn't talk about them. We talked about them yesterday with Zorana Mihajlovic and said that under those conditions that the state will provide for security services that must provide the same conditions for the purchase of apartments for all young couples, families with children, doctors, teachers, researchers, researchers, scientists, single parents, families with special needs, etc. That's not your portfolio. We talked to the other minister about it. We warn you that there is no state right, we have said through some amendment - it must be provided per household member at least 10m2 each. Let the debt be paid for the rest of his life, and let his heirs pay him, but as part of his salary, as part of his pension, not to leave him without an apartment as much as he owes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59518	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now, according to the amendment, Mariana Marash came forward. (Marjana Marash: Replica. What? Replica? (Marjana Maraš: The minister mentioned me personally in the presentation. Did she mention you personally? She didn't mention you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: By amendment.) ) Here you are, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59519	By amendment. Dear Minister, it is not disputed whether we will vote for amendments and additions to the law. Of course we will support it, but during the debate that was going on, and the president of the Assembly has expressed in her presentation the position that I subsequently expressed in my presentation, I say to the President of the Assembly. I understand that you understand very well with our deputy head of Parliament. You come from the same branch, but you have to understand us MPs that we listen to the people and when we tell you something about the people's impression of changing the laws and the bill's proposals they have on them. You have stated in the law that it is precise who may be a customer in the enforcement process, by making public executioners and their deputies, assistants, as well as other persons employed by a public executioner completely excluded, regardless of whether they act in a specific case. It's an anti-corruption measure. For that reason, I personally understood that you, because of what was happening, had precisely made it clear in the law, that this would no longer happen and for that reason and we welcome what you did there, but I also supported in my presentation what the President of the Assembly, when she explained the amendment, said. For this reason, I said that maybe we should also consider adopting, she said that there are many changes and that, in that case, when there are many changes, there should also be consideration about the adoption of a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59520	Thank you, Mrs. Marash. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59521	Thank you, Chairman. The essence of precisely the provision that you cited and the essence of their introduction, the Ministry of Justice's urgency was to restore and increase public confidence in the enforcement system. I didn't say there were abuses in that sense. It is true that an perpetrator who has not acted in the procedure, or the son of an executioner, has bought an apartment, but the applicable regulations have absolutely not been prohibited and thus has not committed any offence, nor any abuse by the perpetrators. So, for the public to know, it's a case of buying an apartment by an executor who didn't act in that case, even in a completely different city than the city where the execution took place. But just given the public's response to the situation, we decided to make and propose a provision. For the sake of restoring and increasing public confidence in the enforcement system, we have ruled out the possibility that any perpetrator, anywhere in Serbia where public sales of immovable property are being held, can participate as a buyer, as well as persons associated with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59522	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburović, the National MP Marijan Risticevic has submitted to the amendment of the 19th. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59523	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we still think that the courts and judges are sacred cows. I don't think so. I even think they've made more mistakes than perpetrators, but no one here is talking, everyone's on the side of the debtor. But let's see what the chain reaction is. Could the trustee be in debt at the same time? Of course he can. If he doesn't charge his own, he can't pay the other one. The other one can't pay the third. Also, can the debtor be a trustee at the same time? Well, something owes, it could be the subject of execution, but if it charges where the trustee was, then it won't be. So we have to take care of the chain reaction, but I'll describe the case in India, where judges and courts weren't sacred cows. Namely, the parcel of the General Agricultural Cooperative "Srem" was sold for value per hectare at some 5,000 euros, agricultural land in a strange, falsified business, in a court of law. The trustee was, behold, a miracle, the head of a committee group who then exercised power. The trustee bought it for 5,000 euros, immediately turned it into a construction zone and a hectare he bought for 5,000 euros sold as a construction immediately for 100,000 euros, for 20 times the amount. So 14 hectares, which he paid about 70,000 euros, sold for 1,400,000. It was in the Injun court, and I'll prove it easily. Then their butt got caught by a gallop, so to speak. Since they were over it, then they bought from the same General Agricultural Cooperative, in a fined business, which was run by a party member of the very head of the committee group, in the fining business of 168 hectares in the industrial zone. Of course, again as agricultural land, for the value of something cheaper, for 4,000 euros per hectare, so the job reportedly paid 600,000 for public sales. In court, they took 168 hectares of land or 1,680,000 square meters, worth between 16.8m and 35m euros. So it was done by local authorities, with the support of the court, with the support of the party leader who worked as the director of the General Agricultural Cooperative "Srem". So that's the story of sacred cows in the judiciary and I believe the perpetrators are wrong, but courts do it far more often. The perpetrators cannot determine how they will do so, whether the debt will be charged or not, while the courts directly decide on it – there is no execution without a court ruling. So, whether it's a judicial execution, whether it's the perpetrators, unfortunately, the perpetrators have proved to be more law-abiding than many judges and courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59524	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59525	Thank you. With this amendment, we asked for the removal of Article 20, on the grounds that the entire enforcement procedure must be in accordance with the Law on a litigation procedure. You have extended the powers of public enforcement through the bill, and you have certainly tried to control them with this proposal. If that control will be as it has been, especially criminal provisions, I doubt your efforts that private perpetrators will be without any sanctions so far. They'll still be protected like white bears. As a result, on 15 October 2018, the SRS submitted its first proposal to abolish private perpetrators and to put the law on enforcement and security out of force and return the jurisdiction of the perpetrator to the courts. In your opening statement, you said Mrs. Kuburovic that the law on enforcement and security is the law that causes the most public attention. It is true that the Serbian Radicals agree with this finding, because the lack of property and what man has built his entire life, and the achievement of circumstances because of the haughtiness and emotional behavior of the perpetrator, will be taken away. Doesn't such an inhuman act cause public attention, media, either as you say, justifiable or unjust? We believe that the reaction is justified with the basics. Here we have heard from fellow members of the assembly in the principle debate that these amendments and additions to this bill will be a positive thing and that we will get a big plus from the European Commission following Serbia on the way to the EU. Dear fellow Members of the people, to whom we agree, is the EU on whose path some Serbian citizens have left their lives? For such behaviour, public enforcement officials are solely guilty of the law on enforcement and security, which gives unlimited authority to a small number of people in Serbia and where they have acquired an unprecedented wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59526	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59527	Due to a recent comment by the Minister and individual MPs, I must repeat to the citizens of Serbia that the public executioner and the bailiff are two different concepts. Well, when you say, here are colleagues probably, Jojic and Jovanovic from practice such an executor situation. A citizen must know that they say privately, these public perpetrators who are evil in Serbia and the rights of the mafia, have public powers which have been passed on to them by law that they can, as judges, make decisions in the executive procedure and act. Now, when we say, Serbian radicals, return to the courts, to the bailiffs, then, Your Honor, you, as minister of justice, must protect the integrity of the courts. You set an example, a court case from Nis, right, and you say, that's where it might happen. Do a survey, we have gathered 100,000 signatures for now, and there will be many more and ask the citizens of Serbia, whether they will trust these judicial perpetrators, or this other, that no one has any dispute. Here, someone who is absolutely without any debts, everyone will tell you, the state is a state, the court is a court. A court executor, unlike these blasphemers, whose law gave this right, when they act in a certain enforcement procedure, cannot make their own decisions, or if they have any failure, when they return that day to court, they must inform the judge, right, and say, the failure is that and that, or the judge himself to see what happened. There is no case in Serbia, until these mobsters have been introduced, that the bailiff came to the people who have underage children and kicked them out, along with the police assistance, out of the apartment, because they can't do it by law. If you have a underage child, right, and the bailiff comes, not this mobster, there's no going out. Yet, for the end of this presentation, an example of the family taken from Zemun. Eurobank trustee, an apartment is being sold because of incredible interest, and banking products, although the debt is practically paid off. What do you say on a case like this, and there's a lot more until the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59528	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59529	Thank you. Let's not make a substitute for thesis, the bailiff and the public executioner, you absolutely can't identify yourself. The court enforcer is a civil servant, who only conducted the execution operations as well. On the other hand, a public executioner can't even get even with a judge. He did not take the judge's job, because the judge continues to make a decision on the execution, on the basis of which the public executioner is carried out. Public executioner, absolutely under the supervision of the judge, because you can make decisions on a legal remedy, which is decided by the court. So, the legality of acts brought by public perpetrators is being questioned by the court, which means that they are still under judicial supervision. Did the bailiff, when selling the immovable property, sell the immovableity where there were minors, I believe he did, too. Was there an abuse by the judicial perpetrators? Yes, it is. I can give you examples from your city, where there was also an arrest in Kragujevac by the court perpetrators, precisely for taking bribes and abuses they committed during the execution. So they can't just be public perpetrators of abuses, but there were no such abuses on the part of the judicial perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59530	Thank you, Madam Minister. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59531	Of course there are always exceptions and bad examples, and I know about that case, but you know we have to send citizens a message and make a clear distinction on who these are and who they are. Madam Minister, they do not only work by the same principles and by the same rule, which you know much better than I do, but the powers given to them, which were passed on to them by this law, have been misused in many cases. You admitted it and said that some of them were resolved, right, public perpetrators, that many of them, because of that, were committed against one and the criminal proceedings. But what do you mean when nothing has been returned to these people? When it comes to what is basic, the issue of existence, the taking of an apartment and a roof over your head, here I will give you an example from Slovenia, they are in the EU. Such a case has occurred that the regulation on execution and protection of the right to roof over the head has been amended, which is now required by the SRS, per square line, per member of the household. The European Court of Human Rights has just reached a verdict in favour of Zoran Vasksic against the state of Slovenia, in which he obliges the state to pay him 85,000 euros, as he was taken away from him the only roof over his head due to a 124-poor utility debt. Will Serbia now learn from these other people's mistakes? A few days ago, we had an amendment to the Old Foreign Savings Act, due to a pilot of Tuzla's verdict, one in Sarajevo, and an Invest Bank case based in Serbia, the state of Serbia will now pay those citizens who are looking from the area of the former SFRY republic, the old foreign currency savings. The same is true because the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has made such a decision. Not to remind you of the Sabre case and the millions in damages. Do you think about the future, that certain circumstances will change, that a congregation majority of what we stand for, that this law will be put out of force, that others will be adopted, what will these people say now? Yeah, it's changed now, and you're saying that the new rule reduces tariffs, and those who are so sick of the perpetrators who did it, of course they're going to sue. He'll sue and he'll get one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59532	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59533	I'm glad you mentioned the Slovenian case and the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, but I have to correct you that the European Court of Human Rights has reached a verdict on violation of the principle of proportion and because the court has committed that breach, because in this particular case, the court has carried out the execution. So, it's not true what you've stated has to be guaranteed the right of residence. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights was made on account of a breach of the principle of proportion made by the court, rather than by public perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59534	Thank you. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59535	It doesn't matter who, in a particular case, committed that injury, here's the point that people lost their roof over their heads. Do you not think that certain families and citizens of Serbia, who have experienced the same fate, many of them, have said and spoken to your predecessors who were in power and demoralized people, yet they have received their judgments in the courts by this famous Law on the reduction of debts on the Swiss people?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59536	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59537	Since you're so much in favour of getting your execution back, here's another piece of information to give you. From 1 January 2008 to 1 March 2012, meaning that when the court only executed the executions, 32 times sold the property for a debt of less than 1,000 euros, the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59538	Thank you. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59539	I trust you all, Mrs. Kuburović, but we are going back to today's beginning of our story, then to the amendment of the Criminal Code, then to the proposal of the holder of judicial functions. Make sure the courts are in place. I don't know why you're complaining to me about such a bad situation in Serbia's courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59540	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59541	I thank you, Chairman. It's interesting that when answers don't match the thesis of public executioners, then they resort to it, so let's sort out the situation in courts, so see what you're going to do with judges, etc. The essence of this whole situation where Parliament is in the process of discussing this bill is linked exclusively to what is the objective of the law, more effective enforcement, more effective collection, more effective settlement of claims, and on the other hand to the protection of executive debtors to the extent to which it is correct, adequate, fair and legal, especially social debtors. But I'd like to point out one example, dear minister, with information that you have in a much greater capacity than I do. As the executions were carried out by the courts before the executioners entered the public scene, we had a huge number of executions in front of the courts, a huge number. This led to a large number of applications before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Why? Because of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Why? Because executions lasted a few years. It is not disputed that these violations of the right to trial were committed within a reasonable period of time by the courts, it is not disputed. Even at times, the burden of these injuries was unfoundedly shifted to, say, commercial courts, and that commercial courts were in fact the last link in the whole situation because the previous proceedings lasted extremely long in basic or regular courts before bankruptcy was opened. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that in a particular situation, when we got rid of one big ballast, when the state out of the budget no longer has to allocate huge financial resources to the damaged who did this violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time, we are now angry with public executioners who have just contributed to us preventing what cost the country a lot, and it cost most of all exactly what it costs to apply to the International Court of Human Rights. I don't know exactly what the number of judgments is, what the court's decision number is, and how much, to say, the amount of money and in what extent, or the total amount, the state is obliged to compensate for the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59542	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. You want a replica of my colleague Jovanovic's exposure? If you've identified yourself, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59543	He said fellow Jovanovic - when there are not enough arguments to challenge this bill, then he resorts, now I paraphrasise you, some examples that are not so exact and solve the problem of the courts. This is about, counterpart Jovanovic, that the SRS, which only opposes the public enforcement institution, opposes the system's creation of homeless people. You know, we talked, and we'll continue when Zorana Mihajlovic arrives, as the military homeless were created, as they were brought into that situation, after 30 years of bleeding for the state, as other people stayed on the street because they had been robbed by this dosing regime since 2000. But, you know, now that you say it reminds me of one situation, it's all allowed, so let's go back to the 16th century. That's what Thomas Moore wrote in one of his books, that then the dignitaries wanted to increase their wealth literally drove people out of the house and made pastures for sheep, because they wanted to get rich. Now, these public executioners think that the Serbs, or people in Serbia, are sheep, they'll cut them however they want, all under the auspices of the state. I had to make that parallel.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59544	My colleague Jovanovic, I have allowed you to make a parallel, but now my colleague Jovanovic is looking for a replica of your exposure. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59545	I'm sure I won't answer for this again, because any answer comes after that thesis replacement, and then we can't, in any case, have an actual conversation, given that what I'm saying and what I'm saying as a fact can't be doubted, because the argument is unequivocally clear. The focus of the amendment's amendment to this law is on public enforcement. I will lastly repeat, the public executioner has one single obligation, to implement a court ruling, or to act on an executive correction or a credible correction. It's his obligation, it's his task by law, and he's moving within the limits of it. For this, it receives adequate compensation, which, as I warmly welcome, will now be restrictively determined by the Minister, i.e. what will be limited amounts and determine significantly smaller amounts than they have been so far, because it is undeniable that the perpetrator's income is indeed high. But, on the other hand, how do you stimulate a public executioner, as a public authority holder, to carry out the execution of a wake-up call? So, some kind of adequate reward, anyway, must exist. Finally, when I said that the state should not suffer, I just mentioned it because public perpetrators influenced the disbursement of the Serbian state's obligations to all those who were damaged by the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59546	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59547	Here it's as if the story is spinning in circles, whether it's intentional or other circumstances, but it's constantly mentioned, replacing thesis. In fact, it's about closing your eyes in front of real life and reality. The maximum number of cases in the case of execution relates to the settlement of regular obligations for payment of municipal services. I don't know how much the public knows about the procedure when it comes to the debtor's warning, when it comes to the court's decision and when it comes to execution. The subject is being processed, the case works, in Belgrade, it is the Public Enterprise "Infostane", completely professionally handled by the Infostan professional service. He's being sent by an attorney's office by hitting the seal on such a arranged object. For that, the lawyer's office has an average of 50 euros. 90,000 items are in "Infostane" in Belgrade, times 50 euros, which is 4.5m euros that are inaccessible to law offices, regardless of what is the final solution to the case. In the event of non-payment, the case shall be brought before the court, the court shall bring final judgment and shall be brought to judgment. This is to be sent to the executive chamber, the chamber of executioners. Look what's very interesting about it. It's among the perpetrators who know who these "exclusive perpetrators" are. That's them, when you go on the site, you see that they have the highest values. Imagine how naive a man needs to be, how much he needs to turn his back and close his eyes to reality, to believe that it's a coincidence, that it's a draw like in a cup of champions or something else organized on the basis of random choices. No, it's already known, it's already known. We listen here to the story of the richest, of those who have so they won't, gentlemen, don't be fooled, Todorovic in Croatia has one, in Serbia there are many more. It's not the debtors, it's the partners and the banks, and it's the government, and it's the government. They're not at risk. They're watching how the state can help them pay back their debt. Why? Not the state, the most banks watch. Why? Well, because business and these banks will be at stake, and in some cases even the functioning of some of the parts controlled by the state. So don't play games. Here's the most vulnerable category of salaries and lawyers, salaries and executioners, and that's who they are, we can't even talk about middle class, for God's sakes, they're much lower than middle class, which could be called in a whole way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59548	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The floor is represented by Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59549	Mr. Chairman, I have to correct you, since you said that when it comes to communal objects, individuals have exclusivity. I also have to remind you that in 2014, just on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, an amendment was made and an addition to the law in force at the time and an even distribution of cases to the perpetrators in the area of one city was introduced, so it is impossible that there is exclusiveness and that it is just a communal enterprise that is going to choose which perpetrator will give the subject. You're talking about some enormous claims, and all the while your MP group is saying that on the basis of municipal claims they can't be huge debts and that these are debts of up to 10,000 dinars, so I don't know how suddenly you have the enormous claims that you've just disputed. For the sake of the public, when it comes to the collection of municipal claims, a proposal is being made to the Chamber of Executives, the software is the one that distributes the cases and the distribution of the cases to all perpetrators in the area of the city, in particular, it is about Belgrade, when you talk about "Infostane".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59550	Thank you. Comrade Mircic, you want a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59551	Well, here, I'll be careful enough to repeat what I said. When it comes to execution, the Chamber of Executives is referred to and there is a strong doubt that there is this so-called group of exclusives, when it comes to the executioner, how, among those perpetrators who are members of the Chamber, it is precisely the separation of a certain number of perpetrators who have an exclusive when it comes to the amount of debt to be charged. Here, it's not just "Infostane" it's about Serbia's Electrodistribution. How is it that one executioner or several executives represent electricity? How's that? Is it based on a random sample? Well, they're not putting those balls in the fridge, so we'll leave the cold ones for later. Who else believes that? No more naives. There's an association, there's a connection, there's a system that's organized in a state that serves to enrich individuals. You can, as minister, deny individual exposure to Serbian radicals, but it is inevitable. We don't have a number of cases where there's a physical charge with the perpetrators, you have to take care of it. You can take from a man while he has, but when he gets to the limit, when he defends his existence and his family, he will surely find it difficult and physically leave it to some executioner, like a kabadiah, and it is the responsibility of the one who is in power, not the people to accuse an individual perpetrator. Maybe the public, when it comes to the media, but the people know who's guilty, it's the government that made it possible, and now we're trying to somehow find a solution to the new law, which will completely erase such a way of executing, to return to the state's wing, or the courts' wing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59552	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a representative of the promoter, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59553	Thank you. Mr. Mircic, you've again made one lie that the Elektro-distribution is represented by individual perpetrators. First, the perpetrators do not represent anyone, because they are not in the role of lawyers, and when the word exactly electrodistribution is absolutely all 217 public executive offices conducts the execution of the subject of Electrodistribution, which means there is no ecclusiveness, the proposal to the Chamber of Executives and absolutely all the perpetrators in the area of the city from which the search is obtained items, which means that it is impossible that individuals only have items of Electrodistribution. It was until 2014, when only a municipal company was elected to carry out their execution, but precisely because of possible corruption, a flat distribution was introduced which we further advocated, and it remains, and not only in the flat distribution of municipal claims, but also in the case of executive documents resulting from municipal claims. One of the amendments to this law is that if you enter a court procedure to determine the claim arising from a municipal claim or in that situation, the municipal enterprise will no longer be able to choose an perpetrator, but will be determined by a uniform distribution system.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59554	Thank you. Comrade Seselj, not all is well, so you want a replica, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59555	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. First, Mrs Kuburovic just said that from the data that is the exact data, so 3,736 properties seized in the execution process by public perpetrators. They're not housing units, they're all there, there's hotels and what I know, but they're all exceptions. Do not pretend and close our eyes to what is currently happening with this system in Serbia. Therefore, those who owe the most still do not pay debts continue to be credited and what not, and those who are, or are, persons with relatively small debts in relation to all the debts that exist in this system, who is charging them all they can, and these are apartments and houses and machines for working and all living. So it's not a replacement thesis, there's no replacement thesis these are all concrete cases, concrete data. Of course, we should discuss and have different opinions. We are against the institutions of public enforcement, the SRS advocates the abolition of the public enforcement institution because it has proved very bad for the lives of citizens in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party supports public perpetrators and it is clear that we have different opinions, but do not deny and close our eyes to obvious abuses. That's what the SNS MPs said on Monday, everyone knows an example of where some executioner has made enormous wealth at the expense of the debtors. It's abnormal for a third party to benefit from an abnormally large asset from a debt-trust relationship. It's just impossible. Therefore, the perpetrators do not care for the performance of their obligations, and their priority is to get the greater property benefit out of this relationship and to deal with it because of its obvious property interest that no one can control, no one can contain those perpetrators. Don't run away from the problem, you're going in a line of less resistance, you should have instead given private persons to deal with the executions to reform the courts and leave the courts with an ambience so they can work on their obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59556	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. counterpart Žarić Kovacevic, you want a replica as an authorised representative of the SNS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59557	Thank you, Chairman. Here, for several hours in continuity we have been discussing in detail the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security and I must tell you that we have heard more than once and that this proposal has been given small corrections, cosmetic changes, trivial changes. And then on this side, I was talking about something else, and on the other hand, there's something else that's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Instead of really having the time we have to report to the amendments, we use it to actually explain to the citizens what these concrete members of the law are. It has been mentioned here several times that SNS MPs did not vote in 2011, and now they are for the perpetrators, why it is the responsibility of the SNS in 2011 when the SNS did not exercise power, it is not clear to me. On the other hand, where it was in 2011, then in 2015, a new law was passed, and now in 2019 we have amendments and additions to the law. I just think it's normal for some law to be passed again or to change and supplement the current situation. As far as media attention is concerned, the subject is such that it draws attention to the public and I absolutely agree with that, but that is why certain perpetrators were subject to the supervision of the Justice Ministry and certain perpetrators were also resolved. I don't know how much time they'll allow me, but I'd like to say I'm going back to the public executioner's relationship. If we take years of practice backwards, we'll see that there are abuses in each other and that's why we need to bring and discuss amendments and additions to the law. As for that, I absolutely agree with all my colleagues and colleagues who today said that such people should be sanctioned, i.e. that all abuses and malfeasances should be sanctioned. Now I've just set one example out of practice, and the abuse is when an executive debtor gives the bailiff, says, honoring him to delay the execution so the trustee can't be charged. Then what are we gonna do about this situation? So just a little bit about this replacement of thesis, not talking about replacing thesis anymore, but really going back to the debate on the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59558	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. You will receive a replica, but before you came forward with the replica, the authorised representative of the SPS, counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59559	I thank the chairman. As far as executive debtors are concerned, and all the time that focus is being put on protecting executive debtors, let's focus on a situation where executive debtors themselves put themselves in a position that they wanted to, they didn't want to, to settle the trustee's claim. Banks are mentioned as executive creditors. The executive debtors shall allow the establishment of the mortgage as a means of ensuring the claim on their immovable property when closing the loan contract. It is therefore the will of an autonomous, freely expressed will of a credited person to establish a mortgage on its immovableity. So no one forced or forced the executive debtor to establish on his assets a mortgage, or a means of security, which means that he was fully aware that at the time when he concluded the loan agreement and eventually fell into debt and the entire obligation under that contract came to an end, he was already aware that through the realization of the mortgage his debt to the executive trustee, a concrete case of the bank, would be settled. Now the question arises - what is the irrevocable executive debtor? In what way has the public executioner of any kind now compromised the executive debtor or the interests of the executive debtor? What is it that a public executioner has hurt in this situation when it comes to the obligation of an executive debtor? Absolutely nothing. Next, we're here when we were having a discussion, about half an hour ago, tops of the hour, loud and clear... (President: I'm just asking you to bring the end. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, so I'll be in touch after the amendment. So, in a particular case, what's always been attacked in the bill of this law is that so-called. the disproportionateness between the value of the claim and the value of the asset of the execution or immovableity. There is no more danger of that injury being committed, no more danger of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59560	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59561	Mr. Milicevic, I see that the co-worker is upset that we are not specifically talking about these amendments, but the question is raised – is it more important to talk about the essential problems of execution today in Serbia or about amendments where there are linguistic changes, changes and in about, electronic boards and others? Because what's more important is that we talk about the specific problems citizens face in the process of execution, where are they robbed by persons who have protection from the state or the electronic boards? I think we'd better talk about execution. The fact that the SNS did not pass the law in 2011 does not release the SNS from its responsibility because it confirmed this law in 2015 and here again this year. Public executioners are an institution that is something that is the worst that has left us DS. In 2011, the advances were against it, and today they support it even though they promised to break up with the yellow company," and what not. So I'm not saying that trustees are less important than debtors, but this isn't about trustees at all, this is about a third person. So someone who is not a debtor or a trustee and is not a state and has the authority of the state to, therefore, charge often and 10 times more than the basic debt, commission, expenses, so we get into a situation where the man they're moving out of their apartment for execution has to pay the cost of moving him out of the apartment. So I can't figure out how someone doesn't see it as a problem here. I'm not saying that all creditors or all debtors are right automatically, but this law only helps banks, only helps those owners of large companies who try and successfully play the law, and whoever suffers is the middle class, that is. An ordinary citizen with average incomes, not an electronic board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59562	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59563	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I am now confused because we are talking about this replacement thesis, I have realized that my colleague has now practically expressed his objections to the amendments of MPs from his parliamentary group when it comes to "l" in "o" and so on. Also, as far as thesis is concerned, since I've been reading some of your amendments, as far as thesis is concerned, I have to say one more time. We see from one amendment that the law is required to withdraw from the procedure, then in the reports on the other amendments, we see that it might be better to wait for these signatures and that new law, even if we talk about it. I don't mind. There are many examples, there are good examples, unfortunately there are bad examples. I'm here to talk about these signatures and that law, and I'm always available in the variant to fix the provisions of some law. Once again I want to underline, in 2011, the SNS was not in power. Let's ask those who were in power in 2011, why and how have they passed the law that's been criticised here all day, while respecting some SNS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-24-0.u59564	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, many have been reported in the system, I must confess, but for today we are finishing our work. I would like to thank the proposing representative, Nelli Kuburovic, the minister of justice, as well as her associates. Sure, there'll be time to argue. We continue our work tomorrow, so on Thursday 25th of July 2019, starting at 10.00 p.m. Thanks again. [[The session was suspended at 6:35 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic.
