ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-19-0.u62305	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Your Excellency, I am opening the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. I called this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, His Excellency Mr Dmitri Medvedev. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, His Excellency Dmitri Medvedev. In addition, I welcome other respected members of the Russian Federation's government delegation as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia attending today's special session. I now call upon His Excellency, the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation of Dmitri Medvedev, to address us. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-19-0.u62306	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I am very pleased to speak again in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Life consists of some small symbols, and one of them is likely that I spoke to the National Assembly exactly 10 years ago, that was October 20, 2009. From that moment on, it's been a long time, on the one hand, and from the point of view of history, nothing has ever gone past. I can say that it is absolutely true that from that moment on, our special relations between the people of Russia and the people of Serbia have not changed at all. It is a great honor for me, together with you, to take part in this special day, to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Belgrade's liberation from fascist conquerors and once again speak to the National Assembly of Serbia. I also warmly congratulate you on the 75th anniversary of Belgrade's liberation, the entire Serbian brotherly people. I want your beautiful country peace, prosperity, freedom and prosperity. We know that the results of such battles as the battle for Belgrade depended not only on Europe, but also on the world as a whole. This event is equally dear to our peoples. I know that the MPs of all regions who were freed from fascist troops of the Red Army, along with the men of the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia attended. It was a hard and bloody battle. Just enough to mention that about 8,000 Soviet soldiers and officers were buried in your country and more than 4,000 killed during the Belgrade operation. Of course, it is very important for us to remember their heroism and heroism in Serbia, to carefully guard the graves of Soviet soldiers and the whole of Russia is truly grateful to you for that. Today, with a special sense of gratitude, I will place the weddings on the Memorial for the liberators of Belgrade and the Soviet soldiers. We greatly appreciate your country's desire, your country's head of state, your parliament to preserve the truth about war, to oppose what they now say in the world – a conscious revision of history. It was Serbia that almost brought together representatives of the "Immortal regiment" movement from around the world at the first international conference "The Memory of the Winners". This is especially important today when in some European countries the monuments of soldiers who freed them from fascism are destroyed, and the executioners who were guilty of destroying a huge number of people are celebrated as national heroes. Open propaganda of Nazi ideas, aggressive actions of neo-Nazi actually became an absolutely regular phenomenon. Such loss, cutting, is not only dangerous, it undermines the most important principles of international relations. These principles, to remind you, were elaborated right after World War II, not ever. The aim of these manipulations is to change the world, to change the standards of international law, some fictitious reasons, which allow them to impose some illegal unilateral solutions, to justify any action, even destructive. All of this creates conditions for tension and conflict, and ultimately leads to instability throughout the world. Unfortunately, Serbia has experienced the consequences of its actions or are being carried out in conflict with the circumvention of international law. I'm thinking about the events in 1999. Russia then supported and supported and now the Serbian people and is ready to provide you with all necessary assistance in preserving sovereignty and territorial integrity. We are interested exclusively in the peaceful resolution of the existing problem based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244. We want the situation in the Balkans to remain stable and safe. Of course, we seek to develop co-operation with all Balkan states, strengthen the position of sovereign states, fight for national interests in world affairs. In fact, it does not oppose the model of globalisation of open society, but only identity, memory of the people in all its roots, it is the basis of any statehood and Serbian statehood, including ours, Russian statehood. As they try to impose otherwise on us, in their time national and cultural reconstruction of the number of countries, we say directly to all countries, was a decisive contribution and a general process of democratisation and international relations. Basically, it was then that international law appeared, when states began to develop as independent, as sovereign, when the nations understood their right to sovereignty and independent development. Belgrade led the process for a period of time and played a major role in the movement of non-classified people. This is a very important historical heritage that needs to be taken into account in modern stages. Just today can only be a very polar world and it could only be based on respect for national interests, based on non-interference in internal affairs, equal relations, mutually beneficial relations to help solve common tasks, to respond to common challenges that threaten us all and to fight for conditions for the full and long-term development of our countries. That's why we and our partners are building the Euro-Asian Economic Union. Our integration union is based on equality and I would especially like to emphasise pragmatism, given each other's interests. In addition, the European Union is not a closed club, it actively develops international ties, relations with a large number of countries. Here, literally, in a few days, October 25th, we expect in Moscow your Prime Minister, Mrs. Anna Brnabic, and I hope our company. It will end there with the signing of the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union. It's an absolutely practical realization of the course of development of our co-operation. This will facilitate the access of Serbian products to a large European market. To remind, it is more than 180 million people and it attracts new investors and partners in Serbia's economy. In addition, we are sure that your country's plans for convergence with the EU will not lead to the artificial slaughter of our bilateral co-operation. We hope that it will be able to build, regardless of what the common neighbourhood, our country, I mean now to the space of the former community of independent states, they are differently directed towards such co-operation and often imposes a non-alternative choice, either heading west or east, and in fact should not go west or east, they should build co-operation in the pragmatic key, in the interest of their own people, not responding to ideological delusions, ideological clichés, but rather develop pragmatic co-operation. That's why we're against so much destructive approach. Our colleagues in the EU have rejected co-operation mechanisms with Russia, such as summits, meeting of heads of state, heads of government or the European Commission, the Permanent Partnership Council, dialogues. I'm not even sure someone's getting better at living than that. Russia doesn't feel at all punished and doesn't grieve at all about the time we had those meetings twice a year, but it had obvious consequences. It has become very difficult for us to solve a number of tasks in Europe. Now I'm not talking about business in Europe or in our country, of course, losing billions of euros that are impossible to pay back and it's necessary to remember. I'm not talking about the problem in Europe just getting bigger. You know this well because you are in the heart of Europe, in our common home, the house, in the form of a migration collapse and threats of terrorism as a boomerang is returning to the event that is happening in the Middle East or in North Africa, which has shown that the shift of non-compliant regimes, and we remember perfectly well who sought it, imposing famous models from outside, explaining how democracy should look in that country or another country, in Africa or in the Middle East, is causing chaos in huge territories, causing the destruction of countries and the total spread of terrorism in the world. On that background, a number of individuals in Europe openly acknowledge a demonstration of visible unity. On the Russian issue, the EU must pay serious diplomatic losses, serious economic losses. That is why I want, using this situation, saying here at the House of the National Assembly, once again to welcome and express my gratitude to Serbia's principled position, which, regardless of its connection with European processes, regardless of the powerful pressure, has not joined sanctions against our country and we will appreciate it. I want to say that Russia is directly interested in normal partner relations with the EU. We want to have a stable, economically successful, predictable and responsible neighbor. I will once again specify that figure, so that you would think about it, before that, when we entered this conflict in general, the common form of trade co-operation with the EU, it was more than 407 billion euros, and then it decreased twice. We need to count who lost what, but we want, so that we can choose our own ways of developing our economies, external economic ties with Europe, including an important issue such as the security of energy needs, I would remind you that the President of Russia, Mr Putin, highlighted the initiative to create a large Euro-Asian partnership. Indeed, it is one big idea of the partnership's connection with other integration structures and independent states' communities, the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation. I don't see why the EU couldn't join the job, just before the fragments of the job are done. Once again, Russia and we are open to an equal, mutual dialogue with the EU, but only on those principles, and only with the understanding that we can build mutually beneficial and respected co-operation. Our relations, relations between Russia and Serbia can be here as an example, because your country is our old friend. We are bound, of course, by a common history, by a very close culture and ultimately by a common faith. In understanding our people live the thought that we are two truly brotherly peoples. It is so and always in the most difficult situations Russia has tried to be for Serbs, gaining support and understanding from Serbia. This was the case in the 19th century during the release of the Balkans from Osmanli. Then many Russian volunteers, as known, gave their lives for Serbia's independence. So it was after the 1917 earthquake in our country, when your country accepted tens of thousands of people who were forced to emigrate from Russia. In essence, Serbia has become another house for them. They, my countrymen, left a visible mark during that period in Serbian culture. They helped develop science, created Serbian school, theatre and ballet. Even the very building of the National Assembly in which we are located is an example of the friendship of the Russians and Serbs, because Russian architect Nikolaj Krakov participated in the creation of this building. Not to mention we were brothers in arms during the two world wars. It is vital that we still maintain a special spirit of these relationships today. Those relationships are on the rise today. I can testify to that as a person who's already spoken on this phone booth. And then we were friends, ten years ago, but now these relationships are really in a very good growth phase. Amongst the leadership of our countries, active negotiations, dialogue, reached an extremely high level of mutual understanding and trust. Big business running government structures. We agreed to sign a large package of documents. They cover different spheres of industry, transport, regarding the co-operation of customs structures, innovation, digital technologies, science and culture. Our trade is growing, and that's a very good sign. This year it rose almost to 8%. Now in the Serbian government, we talked about how to correctly count that trade, because the figures are different. Anyway, they're high, but we probably have to deal with statistics. In any case, the volume of total investments across our Russian to Serbia exceed four billion dollars. It is in our plans to increase to 1.5 billion minimum next year. Trade ties have been activated and there are many good projects, including energy. Serbia is our reliable partner in ensuring the transit of Russian energy to Europe. In essence, Serbia is the leader of the energy and energy market in the Balkans. Thanks to the successful work of the joint venture of the Oil Industry of Serbia, whose main shareholder is the Russian company. I think this company has a nice perspective for increasing the volume of oil-derived research and sales. The company's most important activity is that it is a stable and very important contribution to Serbia's budget and that it gives people a large number of jobs. These are highly efficient jobs and well-paid jobs. Now part of the Turkish pipeline passes through Serbia from the border with Bulgaria and Hungary. Now we've talked to our colleagues, the Prime Minister, about the matter. This project is very useful for all of Europe. We are grateful to the MPs of the National Assembly, dear colleagues to you, for your support of this project, for Serbia, for its economic development, this has special significance. Your country meets its obligations very clearly and this confirms all my colleagues who say that in this sense in Serbia everything is absolutely fine. We hope that the construction will be completed by the beginning of 2020. Another important direction, and I can't tell you about it here, it's about the Russian railroad line. We are taking part in modernising the Serbian railway, in fact, translating to a new efficient level to increase the possibilities of Serbia's transport network. Today, an agreement on the work of Belgrade-Bar and the Agreement on the establishment of a high-tech distribution centre of the train administration has been drawn up. That's why we single out the same Russian state resources. There are other directions. In Russia there were always popular sprawls. I mean now that your country has not joined the sanctions against us. Our restrictions have not come here, they have replaced in many ways our food market from other European countries. When we talked about it, I told my colleagues that sanctions and our response to restrictions, counter sanctions, of course it's not good, and it's probably going to end sometime. But if we're talking about our farmers, both Russian and Serbian, it's very good for them. They ask us to keep such a regime as long as possible, it will help improve co-operation and let our partners from other European countries think about it. There are visible results in other spheres, and I think we are all facing a huge challenge for the development of digital technologies, Internet technologies. Our country has been pretty good in this regard in recent years and your companies have been able to learn about the work of our Internet company, our high-tech structures. Today, we in Serbia are creating, with the participation of the Centre for Nuclear Sciences, Technology and Innovation, and that is what the future is for. We hope that it will be useful in scientific terms, as well as solving very important tasks such as drug creation, drug production. Our people want to communicate as much as possible. About 70,000 Russian tourists come to Serbia every year. With us Serbs, there are about 60,000 people. Clearly, these are numbers that can grow and everything depends on our work together, our work in the field of tourism and the development of these perspectives. I think the states can do whatever is necessary to support the interest of the two peoples. That's why today we're signing an agreement on the creation of cultural, information centres, and I think it's also going to be of great benefit to our countries. Another important event, in line with an agreement reached at the level of the president, we will today pass over to the Serbian side of the Petersburg Gospel, and we will return seven images, a number of images of Nikola Rerich. Indeed, it is a very significant event. This applause shows the role of bringing the sprawl and Russian people together spiritually. During this year, the Days of Spiritual Culture of Russia are held in Serbia, and, of course, one great importance for us all has 800 anniversarys of the self-cephane Serbian Orthodox Church, its founder, Saint Sava, who was famous for the monk of the Russian monastery. Our experts will continue to help build a temple that exists in Serbia and the main, basic temple in Belgrade, which was built because of a sprawl lighthouse. I am convinced that this temple will become another symbol of our friendship. Dear Madam President Gojkovic, honourable MPs, of course, the projects I've been talking about now cannot be realised without your support. I know that you people are very warmly hanging out with my colleagues from the two palaces of the Federal Assembly, the State Duma and the Federation Council. Here you have the president of the Federation of Mrs. Valentina Matvenko. This year, the President of the Lower House of our State Duma, Mr. Volodin, also spoke here. Friendship groups have been formed. They work in different directions. I want to sincerely thank the National Assembly for this work, for such a friendly approach. The 141st Interparliamentary Union meeting was held successfully in Belgrade. This is the oldest international organization, she's 130 years old. Such a significant jubilee, which they have entrusted to the very National Assembly of Serbia, speaks of your high international authority. I congratulate you on that. Thank you for supporting the development of Russian-Serbian relations. I believe that together we can remain at the highest level for the development of our countries, for the prosperity of the people of our countries, for the common prosperity. I'm absolutely convinced that's how it's gonna be if we try. I sincerely wish everyone success and the best of luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-19-0.u62307	I thank His Excellency the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mr. Dmitri Medvedev for his address. I conclude the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you, everyone.
