ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Petrovic, Ivan Bauer, Jasmina Karanac and Zarko Obradovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 156 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted a request for the maintenance of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly with a specific agenda contained in that request. The following agenda was set for the session of the 17th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session: Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports; Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Surinas on the waiver of visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official special passports; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on the waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic under Article 92 of Article 2 170 and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint uniform search be carried out on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports; a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Suriname on the waiver of visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official special passports; a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on the waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Does the National MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – six MPs, of a total of 136. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar on the abolition of visas on diplomatic and official passports submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Suriname on the release of visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official special passports submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which the government submitted. We're going after work according to the established agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called to attend. Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, Ambassador Ac Jovanovic, serves as foreign minister's assistant, Bozidar Jovanovic, head of the visa policy department at the foreign ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Suriname on the release of visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official special passports; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on the waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Does the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? (Yes) The word has the Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60085	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with great pleasure, of course, I attend a meeting of the National Assembly on whose agenda several draft laws confirming the Agreement on the jurisdiction of the Ministry I run, the visa regime of the Republic of Serbia is as well as the visa regimes of other countries of the world, one variable substance, living matter that is often changing according to the needs of harmonising relations with other countries, and is always in line with the state and national interests of our country and our citizens. Our policy is a policy of openness towards the world and the need to have as many states as possible visa-free regimes to enable the movement of people, goods and services, to develop political relations and to improve overall co-operation. According to current data, citizens of the Republic of Serbia can enter and stay without a visa in 71 countries. These are all European countries except the UK and Ireland; Russia, China, Brazil, Japan, the Republic of Korea, etc. Nationals of the Republic of Serbia, holders of diplomatic and official passports, can enter and stay in 93 countries without a visa. As you probably know, in the previous period, we have concluded a number of visa relaxation agreements with countries around the world and according to the portal "Pasport index" the Serbian passport is globally at 28th place in the world. When we look at that ranking, it applies primarily to how many countries you can go to without a visa. We sincerely hope that these figures will continue to grow. On the other hand, citizens of 92 countries can enter and stay without a visa in the Republic of Serbia. We remind you that the visa regime of the Republic of Serbia towards third countries is broadly in line with the White Schengen list. There are discrepancies since the Republic of Serbia has a visa-free regime for citizens of the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, China, Qatar, Turkey, Cuba, Tunisia, India, etc. The full compliance of the rules in the field of visa policy of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules will follow our accession to full EU membership, in line with the planned dynamics and no later than six months before the accession of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because often from Brussels we have objections to why we abolished visas for certain countries, but as I said, every country has its own national and national interests and if our country's visa-free regime with those countries does not endanger any other principles, such as illegal migration, asylum seekers, etc., we have no reason to re-examine this policy until we get close, as I said, to six months before we join the EU, when we have to fully bring our system into line with the EU White List. Otherwise, it is true that we have lifted visas for some countries that are not on the EU White List, but it is also true that some countries that are on the EU White List have not lifted visas. I'm going to speak plainly here, of course, the visa waiver is a sign of friendship with certain countries. The signing of the Free Trade Agreement and the abolition of visas in the best possible way shows mutual respect and friendly relations between our countries. Otherwise, the full visa regime is in place with most of the countries of Africa, the Middle East, East and Southeast Asia, which is consistent with the White Schengen List. From January 1st to September 3rd this year, 11,843 applications were made for visas to enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on all travel documents, of which 7,158 visas were issued. People of China at the most, 2,784, Egypt 480, India 421, Lebanon 385 etc. At today's session, we will discuss several agreements, and there is an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports. I signed that agreement in Asunion on March 25th this year. Paraguay is a country that has not recognised Kosovo, a friendly country for us, but with these countries we need to establish as close as possible relations. Paraguay, under the influence of the United States, voted for Kosovo's entry into Interpol. That's why I've been visiting Paraguay and I hope this year, I'm sure it won't be the case this year, but I want to say that regardless of some countries haven't recognised Kosovo, we have to make contact with those countries because a previous meeting of countries was who knows when. So, this is one way to establish closer relations and we want to have with them, these agreements are typically typical, their implementation does not require any funds in the budget and that we are precise in this period by the end of August only two visas were issued on ordinary passports for citizens of Paraguay who came to Serbia. The second agreement is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Miami on visa waiver on diplomatic and official passports. That agreement was also signed by me in Naipjidou, which is the new capital. Myanmar was a former Burma, with which Yugoslavia, the former, had very good and close relations. It is a friendly country, as I said, which fully supports us and, by way of effect of this agreement, will create conditions for further development of bilateral relations. There is a full visa regime between our two countries for all types of passports and nine visas for the citizens of Myanmar were issued this year, eight of them for ordinary passports and one for diplomatic passports. Myanmar also did not recognise Kosovo. The third agreement is with Suriname on the release from the obligation to obtain visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official, or special passports. I also signed the agreement in Paramarib on February 10th last year. I must say that Suriname is the first country to withdraw recognition of Kosovo, which they have done during a period of instability in their country. We are grateful to them for that, of course. That is why, given that they were very active, the Interpol conference strongly represented Serbia's stance and, of course, voted against Kosovo's admission to Interpol. Otherwise, in eight months of this year, no visas have been issued in eight months. That means there was no interest in the journey. I don't think people think there's going to be some big migration right now. It is more than one friendly position of our countries, than it will happen now that a large number of citizens will travel to our country and vice versa. The fourth agreement is a visa waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic and official passports with the Dominican Republic. I signed that agreement on December 10th last year in Santa Domingo and this year there were six visas for ordinary passports. The Dominican Republic has recognised Kosovo, but in the Interpol session, after all of our talks and all that we have done with them, they voted against Kosovo's accession, although they have recognised Kosovo. There are other countries that are voting against Kosovo's accession, and have recognised Kosovo, such as Kosovo. Guinea, Malaysia, etc. Anyway, we should work on it and we'll keep going. Speaking of which, you know that 15 countries have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo either suspended or frozen or I don't know how to define or explain my position on this, as some countries are being led on their list of recognitions of Kosovo, and they themselves say they didn't. So 15 countries have withdrawn or suspended recognition, the two countries have frozen recognition status, such as Egypt and Peru. Peru recognised Kosovo not how many years ago, but since 2005, since UNESCO, they have not voted for Kosovo anywhere. Now, whether they will formally decide whether to withdraw or not, it is important for us to have, as they say, the Egyptian minister here on our television said that Egypt has this status of frozen recognition. Otherwise, Egypt recognised Kosovo and the big question is whether it actually recognised Kosovo, because Mursi as president at the end of the term, days before the overthrow, ordered the government to recognise Kosovo, the minister did not want to do so, and then the government spokesman came out and said Egypt has recognised Kosovo. There are no written or written documents on all this. Egypt does not vote for Kosovo. The result is the fact that it allows us that Kosovo cannot pass when it comes to membership in some international organisations as easily as it could have happened a few years ago. I would like to remind you that by 2012 since 2008, 87 countries have recognised Kosovo for the four years. During the time, let's count in this period, from 2014 to today, seven countries have recognised Kosovo, 15 countries have withdrawn recognition. So, we will continue, no matter what great pressures are made on our country that we don't do it. We can only accept that everyone suspends some actions on this, not that the countries of Quinte and only Kosovo lobby to recognise Kosovo or to join Kosovo in international organisations, that we stop. We often resent that we use this visa waiver to, as they say, bribe some country in such a political way to withdraw recognition. You can imagine how firm that decision is for someone to recognise Kosovo when they can undo it because you have to lift someone's visas. When you look at the so-called. The government of Kosovo and the foreign ministry, they lifted visas for many more countries than Serbia did. So it's absolutely unwarranted criticism that we're getting and that it's conditional on each other. It's not about each other, but of course, with friendly countries you should go on visa waivers. We're talking to other countries. Our party's internal procedure for the entry into force of the visa waiver agreement for diplomatic and official passports for Iraq has been completed. There's a response waiting for Iraq. Also, signing a visa waiver agreement on diplomatic diplomatic passports is also ready for the South African Republic and Bangladesh. In addition, there is also the possibility that the government will abolish visas for certain countries with one-sided decisions, as they do to us. We will continue with this practice and hope that from year to year we will have more and more countries in which our citizens will be able to travel without visas. Thank you for your attention. I urge you to vote for the proposals of these laws, because they are of interest to the citizens, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60086	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60087	Thank you. The respected presidency, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the SPS parliamentary group, of course, will support all four agreements, because first of all, it is two countries that, as you said, ministers, in the opening statement, have never made a decision to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. It is about the State of Suriname, which first appeared to me in 2009, to have made a decision, and then withdrew the decision to recognise the independence of KIM and it is about the Dominican Republic, which has made a decision to recognise the independence of KIM, the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, but after your visit to 2018, the talks you had held, how they then defined historic visits, they are the state that voted against the entry of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo into the international organisation Interpol. These are the essential reasons why the SPS will support all four agreements. Mr Dacicu, we believe that Serbia's foreign policy priorities are, and we want to hear this from you, of course, in this debate, namely, we consider Serbia's foreign policy priorities to be the first to continue a decisive, continuous and principled fight to defend national and state interests, then, to continue the EU negotiation process in order to fully join Serbia in the EU, then, military neutrality, but also to strengthen relations with traditionally friendly countries. Here, first of all, when we talk about strengthening, I mean not only bilateral, but also universal, versatile relations, i.e. economic and trade relations. It is true that Serbia's strategic commitment and one of Serbia's key foreign policy goals is membership in the EU, but it is also true that Serbia, also as one of the key foreign policy objectives, has, as I said, also strengthened friendship with traditionally-oriented countries. So, the EU does, but with respect to territorial integrity and sovereignty. In this regard, as a Parliament club, we differ from those which, unfortunately, are not in the O.R. today, because a few days ago, Mr Dacic, we had a chance to talk to the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the European Parliament, Mr McAllister. Unlike the opposition, which has worked all the time, when Mr. McAllister says Serbia is an EU constructive partner, there is an impression by the opposition that the opposition has tried all the time to represent that Serbia is not a constructive partner, and there are also opposition parliamentary groups that say – we are for the EU without any but. Serbia's position on the invariableness and integrity of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia is widely known. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us to do so, but the UN Charter also obliges us to do so, according to UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council. With countries that respect Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, we believe that not only bilateral ones should be strengthened, but as I said, both economic and trade relations. True friendly and brotherly relations should be built with such countries, trust, respect, support, and universal and versatile co-operation. These countries, you know, through such a relationship primarily manifest themselves as guardians and builders of a more just international order, based on international law, with respect to all those general principles, principles and objectives contained in the UN Charter. Let me say that you, too, correct me if I'm wrong, but that the Republic of Serbia, in order to preserve international peace, stability and security, and with respect to international law, advocates the general principles and principles of equal co-operation on the international stage, without imposing sanctions as means of coercion. Today it is very difficult to defend Serbia. Today, it is very difficult to defend Serbia's interests and it can only be sincere, courageous and determined fighters to defend national and state interests, such as you as foreign minister, president of Serbia and, of course, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. But I suppose it is the obligation of all of us, the obligation of all the MPs, all of us who have received the legitimacy and trust of citizens, because, Parliament is the voice of the people, I suppose it is the obligation of all of us to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia? And yes, of course it's not an easy time in front of us. We have a very difficult period for Kosovo and Metohija, but, no matter how difficult this road is and no matter how much that road is for us and, in a way, emotionally not, we must certainly continue. Unfortunately, as I said a little while ago, there is one part of the opposition's political parties that believe that KIM's unilaterally declared independence is an irrevocable process. There is one part of the political parties, also from the opposition's ranks, for which Kosovo's independence is unilaterally declared acceptable. But, look, on the other hand, you have Albanian extremists who, no matter how politically they differ, no matter how politically they allegedly conflict, have an entirely identical view on one issue, which is about Kosovo's independence. So when we talk about this subject, even if it is through these agreements, we must first and foremost have one responsible and serious relationship with this issue. Because, you know, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not a day-to-day policy issue, it's not a subject where cheap political points are collected. The KIM issue is the question of Serbia's future, not just the question of Serbia's future, but the question of the future of each Serbian citizen. And there's no more hiding behind political parole. It is not enough to say - Kosovo is Serbia and that you think you have solved the problem. On the other hand, you can't stick your head in the sand. Because if you stick your head in the sand and let time pass, time will pass and this question will become more difficult. And the key thing -- we don't have the right to leave this question to solve generations that are coming. I do not expect that the results of all that you have achieved, as foreign minister, as achieved by the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will welcome neither Bosko Obradovic nor Dragan Djilas, or Vuk Jeremic, but I expect that this courage and determination will know that the prices are primarily of generations to come. Mr Dacic, for a little while I said that it is important that we have a responsible and serious relationship with this issue, because we are expected primarily by the citizens of Serbia. And that is why it is important, when we speak, I repeat, even through these agreements, on this subject, to try to build a consensus of all relevant political parties. Mr. Dacic, you just said -- Western countries insist and pressure to stop diplomatic activities, to stop what they say is lobbying. On the other hand, Albanian separatists also insist on it, because it reportedly irritates them, because it is reportedly something that is holding back and holding back dialogue, and when they lobby that countries, some of these countries, accept their unilaterally declared independence, then it is quite and completely fine and then there is no reaction. However, I am not worried about Western countries, their mentors, I am not worried about their separatists, I am concerned about political parties and the political options that come here from Serbia and who have received legitimacy and trust from Serbian citizens. I'm sorry, we all got legitimacy and trust to defend, I repeat, Serbia's interests, I guess that's our basic obligation. Unfortunately, Mr Dacic, especially after the last session of the UN Security Council, it seems to me that one avalanche is attacking you by certain opposition political options, and that of those opposition political options that have the least right to do so, those political options that have had their chance, their chance that, when they led the foreign policy of this country, they will solve this issue, so they have done nothing, because if there were a little more responsibility, there would be so many missed chances. When they have nothing to say, they say -- well, the foreign minister at the UN Security Council session did not say Serbia would not accept Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Imagine a question. Perhaps such dilemmas existed when they led foreign policy. This government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear path, a clear attitude and a clear direction. They say -- it is not ethical and it is not in accordance with international law your diplomatic activity, and what you are doing is that a number of countries and the largest possible number of countries withdraw the decision on unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija. It is unethical and not in accordance with international law, and it was ethical that we listen to the EU and Kosovo all the time, and then there is a unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, 90 countries at the same time, correct me if I am wrong, I think there were 90 countries, accepts unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija and that is in accordance with international law. It is ethical that at the time when Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence was declared, the president of Serbia had more important jobs in Romania, and the other part of the ruling coalition, the lounge politicians here in Belgrade, so firmly and courageously defended Serbs in Kosovo through press releases. It's ethical and it's moral that they've been hiding border crossings all along. Come on, Mr Dacic, please, I expect you to answer this question, since we have talked to the media many times here, but also in Parliament about border crossings, you have signed the decision and agreement on border crossings as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but let me – is it true that all agreements were initialled in 2011 and then kept silent for a year, why was it silent? It was silent because it was known that in 2012, there would be parliamentary elections and that it could damage the political party that then led the government of the Republic of Serbia and which then led foreign policy. Of course, the next government, in order to preserve and protect its credibility and credibility in Serbia, will continue to take on its obligations and responsibilities and continue to implement those obligations that the previous government had, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They say -- you didn't diplomatically act after, it's not in line with diplomacy the way you reacted after the UN Security Council session. They're bothered by your emotional reaction, because you're an honest and brave fighter for the defense of national and state interests, and they don't mind unscrupulous lies and everything that Fjora Cetaku said during the UN Security Council session. Now one question is raised here – do they really mind your reaction or do they mind that you responded when Fjora Citaku was in the company of representatives of the United States and the United Kingdom? That's what they do, they talk about a vocabulary, whose vocabulary has long gone beyond the limits of some normal political communication and some normal frameworks of political vocabulary. And when in the end they have absolutely nothing to say, when they have no idea to offer any idea, no proposal, because they know only one thing, and that is that they are against, and no ideas, no solutions, no solutions, no offer, no one has, all of them gathered together, they are, by the old well-tapped scenario, but they are no longer passing through among Serbian citizens, returning to those political flossules and political marketing about some alleged affairs. Something we've heard a million times, just in 2012. I'll remind you, in 2012, you're reluctant to talk and you don't often want to talk about it, but those alleged affairs they're talking about, so there was nothing secret about it. It was all public. It was secretly the only recording they made, and why did Mr. Dacic need to serve that video? Should I blackmail you and the SPS in 2012 to think differently when it comes to post-election coalitions and to create a different post-election coalition after 2012? Today they tell us, or fair and democratic elections, I don't understand what fair and democratic elections mean, so I guess it's fair and democratic elections, because we haven't changed election procedures. Election procedures have been defined. They have defined this electoral legislation, nothing has changed there. Or, they say revolution. Well, we weren't afraid of them in 2000, and as far as these alleged affairs are concerned, they know how scared we were in 2012, so do they think we're scared of them this year in 2019? On the other hand, Pristina, apart from aggression and daily pressures on the Serbian people living in the KIM area, now has new political flossules. One of these political flossules is that the falsification of the note of withdrawal is a unilaterally declared independence of KIM. Watch out, forging the note of withdrawing the unilaterally declared independence of KIM. It is a classic reflection of the impotence and the confirmation that they are simply experiencing political collapse at every step, that they are slowly losing political ground and that they are slowly losing the political compass and I think that their mentors, those whose children are, realize that they have crossed some red lines long ago, because red lines still have to exist. When I say they crossed the red lines, I mean, of course, the taxes they introduced, I mean the ban on freedom of movement, I mean the resolution they wanted, the people who had expelled before them, the Serb people who had banished from the KIM, 250 thousand Serbs to declare genocide and to declare Serbia a genocide state. So terrorists and bloodsuckers would like to judge now. And of course, when we talk about the number of countries and their alleged, as they say by counterfeits, facts and figures are inexorable. From 2013 to 2019, 15 states withdrew the decision on unilaterally declared independence of KIM, in 2013 withdrawn one country, and in the period since you were the foreign minister of 14 states, the permanent members of the United Nations withdrew the decision on unilaterally declared independence of KIM. I am fully convinced that you will realize the goal you have achieved, which is that that number is below 97. We are not competing here in numbers, it is essential that we finally make it clear that the matter is not resolved and that Serbia is part of the compromise, that Serbia is part of the solution, and that without Serbia there is no solution and that Serbia is someone, finally who is asking questions, and not just to watch them take something away from it. And those 117 countries that were put on your list, you were already talking about it. Of these 117 countries, three countries have never, Nigeria, Uruguay and Mali have never recognised KIM's unilaterally declared independence. Two countries like you said, Egypt and Peru have frozen status. Fifteen states have withdrawn and I must say that you have our full support in continuing your diplomatic offensive and diplomatic activity. Serbia is a democratic, independent and free state and leads an independent foreign policy in the best interests of its citizens. Serbia is making great efforts and has a peaceful and constructive approach to finding a compromise fair solution through dialogue, because we believe that diplomacy as a means and dialogue does not have an alternative, that through dialogue we can come up with a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. It is quite clear, for the continuation of the dialogue, for the lack of dialogue is not Serbia's responsibility, but the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo which introduced 100% taxes on products originating in Serbia. This was condemned by both the EU and the International Community, but you know what Mr Dacic, a lot more of these formal and declarative convictions, we also expect the EU to finally do something concrete. It is very simple, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been violated, withdraw taxes, give the dialogue a chance, because we think it is possible to talk, it is possible to find a compromise, it is possible to talk to Albanians, as long as we insist on it and while we continue to fight decisively in defending national and state interests. At the very end, since I'm running out of time, just one question for you. You know, our Rules of Procedure on Labour, however, did not bring this ruling coalition, and most often criticism comes from those who defined these and such procedures of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, and this Rules of Procedure stipulates that every last Thursday of the month MPs have the opportunity to ask representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question. Somewhere we, who have a number of MPs, are damaged through it, because almost once or twice we never get to ask a question, nor are we colleagues from the SRS or the SNS, but that is why these minority parties that change one, the second, third parliamentary club, are always the first to ask parliamentary questions. The question I wanted to ask you on the last quarter, I'm going to ask you today, and it's about having talks with the representatives of the US administration, you've had conversations with a special envoy of the United States. It is evident that there has been a change, it is evident that there has been a certain approach, I do not think that we will have the same attitude and that they have classified Kosovo and Metohija as one of the foreign-political objectives, and I think that this is precisely why we have a difficult period in the next period of time, in the period ahead of you, but I want to hear your opinion about all this and about the US's position at this point. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60088	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60089	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Foreign Minister, at first I would like to point out that the Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of these agreements. It does that for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that Serbia must be an open country, a country to which citizens of the world will come and a country that will accept everyone as a friend. In doing so, the state of Serbia must lead an external policy that is balanced, which is open, but which takes care of state and national interests. One of the great results this coalition has achieved, the ruling coalition is just foreign policy. Foreign policy has done a lot of things that may not be visible enough in public. I'll start with a few things. First of all, what are the priorities? The priority essential for the state of Serbia is to become a member of the EU. The processes we've had so far and all that we've done have resulted in 17 open chapters and one closed chapter. Of course, I would like as a representative of the Social Democratic Party to have many more open chapters and many more closed chapters, but that depends on us, but also on the EU. No matter what the EU thinks, the state of Serbia must change, it must become an EU member. In other words, the reform processes we have begun, the amendments to the law, the opening of roads, highways, the opening of borders, our relationship to the migrant crisis is just running us as a country that can be a member of the EU tomorrow, and even much better and more orderly than some other members. But it is a political issue and the state of Serbia must now continue this process. Of course, what I want to point out is that we are economically highly related to the EU, 65% of our exports go to the EU, and also investment, foreign direct investment where we leaders in the region come from the EU, donations as well. Of course, if our essential priority is the EU, is Serbia a country that is in Europe, we should not neglect other countries as well. First of all, let me say right away, these are large countries of which very much depend on where Serbia is going and when it will be located anywhere and particularly on this of our greatest state interest to address Kosovo's issues. We can't do that no matter how much we want without dialogue, but also without the help of the big ones. We need to know that Serbia is a small country, if we are a small country doesn't necessarily mean we don't have our dignity, our national interests of our own. When I talk about co-operation with big ones, and I think we have results, things are opening up with the United States and I was alone when you were visiting the United States where you talked to senior US officials, and I'm not going to stress Chinese and China, their help, their investments, visits and conversations that we have with them, of course, are inevitable here and Russia and all the other countries that, as far as we're concerned, are very important and very important for solving our significant and most important state problem, which is the issue of resolving Kosovo. But I am also very pleased that you have visited many countries in South America, Africa and Asia. Why? We have a great legacy from the former Yugoslavia, it's a movement of the unclassified. Who travels around the world a little more, and I'm one of those who travels a lot, when I go to such countries, everyone talks about the politics of the unclassified and the desire to co-operate with Serbia. Serbia, which is, or former Yugoslavia, so Serbia, which has made a significant impression in these countries not only politically, but economically, in military terms and simply something that we had before, which is that their students are schooling with us, be assured that these results and both in Africa, and I have been in several countries and I know how they react and how they want to co-operate with us. But the world is changing, the world is changing very quickly, and Serbia is also changing, which is clear and visible. Sometimes it is not necessary to forget some countries that are very important, which are very influential, I mean Iran, I also think about Iraq, I mean Indonesia, so those countries that are prone to, India, which are prone to Serbia and whose interests are that they have very, very important and significant co-operation with us. I would also refer to a very significant segment of diplomacy in my presentation. It is parliamentary diplomacy, perhaps often neglected, and it is very important that all parliamentarians, when in delegations in Europe and outside Europe, represent the interests of the country. I must tell you that there can be major breakthroughs, significant breakthroughs, and only the greatest recognition we have received in the framework of parliamentary diplomacy is the 141st Interparliamentary Union meeting to be held in Belgrade in mid-October. It is a great recognition for both this Parliament and our delegation in the Interparliamentary Union, as the delegation did everything to convince the countries of the world what Serbia is and what Serbia is. We need to know that the EU has 28 countries, and there are 193 countries in the world that are independent. Our influence is that, indeed, in these countries, we explain what is important in Serbia, what are the problems and that we all in our own way inform what is done when a part of our country is separated and is created so-called. an independent state of Kosovo. Most of these countries don't even know our situation, but when you explain to them, when you sit down and talk to them, make sure they understand very quickly, and that's why I appreciate your contribution, but also the contribution and others, to abolishing the recognition of so-called. the countries of Kosovo. We must do this for a simple reason, many have formally done this, as well as the interests of many lobbies in the world and some countries that simply small and poor countries are blackmailing to recognise the independent state of Kosovo. We have seen this ourselves in many gatherings, both in the UN and beyond. Speaking at all about the foreign policy of the Serbian state, I must say that there have been significant results, it is necessary to point out, and this ruling coalition has done this breakthrough much more than others have done, just relying on some big or some influential circles and lobbyes in world politics. The state of Serbia has done this to everyone openly, clearly, constructively, with a desire to explain our position and what our state and national interests are. For the record, Serbian citizens must also know that we are leading foreign policy exclusively in the interest of the Serbian state. This is the basic leader of our foreign policy. I thank and stress in the end that the Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of these agreements that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60090	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60091	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we have before us all these agreements with these countries in the National Assembly, I think it's a good opportunity to discuss Serbia's foreign policy orientation. So, it's been 19 years, so-called. The process of Eurointegration, and since the authorities of Zoran Djindjic until today, we have had this throw-off in terms where this famous entry of Serbia into the EU could happen. So some of the ministers then demagogicly staged that they would lift the ramp on Horgos, that our health care would first enter the EU, so our companies, etc., what we had there. But we've seen that it's actually one process of infinity, in which every moment all the different conditions for access are set. The first was, let's hand over all indictees to the Hague tribunal and then the EU door will be open to us. Then, when we saw it, the authorities in Serbia had handed over everyone on the warrants by 2011, thus being historically humiliated, and it is particularly unimaginable that one authority was able to even extradite the former President of the Republic, and then we saw that there was nothing but membership, but from the opening of negotiations. Then there was, let's start a dialogue, after the EU has already stood behind Kosovo's declaration of independence, let's open a dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and this will provide us with a date for the start of negotiations. Meanwhile, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed where former Minister Bozidar Djelic showed on TV a pen that he signed and said, sluttingly -- this pen introduced Serbia into the EU. Then we saw there was no membership, i.e. Continuing negotiations, until formal dialogue between Serbia and so-called Serbia is established. Kosovo. It was signed in the meantime and the Brussels Agreement from which Serbia, we see now after six years, has not benefited much. The Serb community was supposed to be, as Aleksandar Vucic said, a guarantee of the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo, so we received guarantees and you said, how much memory it serves me, Mr. Minister, that ROSU cannot go to northern Kosovo, and even when it is not in the agreement, you said that in international law and the oral agreement has the same weight, even if it's written on a napkin, so we saw that Serbia and the government in Serbia have been cheated and we have witnessed multiple times the savagery of Albanian terrorists in northern Kosovo, breaking into houses, arresting, bringing in, creating an atmosphere of fear among the Serb community living in KIM, not talking about how Serbs live south of Iber, and there they deceived us. And now after all, Serbia is asked to sign so-called. Legally binding agreement where the essential thing is not blocking each other, i.e. Belgrade does not block Pristina and vice versa, whatever that means, in the membership and process of joining those countries into international organisations, and this is not now a condition for membership, but a condition for continuing negotiations, there are many other things waiting for us. First of all, as far as Kosovo's issues are concerned, we have seen, and of course you deserve all the praise for that, that a certain number of countries have withdrawn Kosovo's recognition. Especially, as you said, there are those who didn't even know they had confessed, so it didn't even know how it happened, or where those notes were, etc., but here we have now made some success, so 15 countries have withdrawn recognition. Among other things, there is one great activity, an engagement of the state, that so-called Kosovo does not become a member of the Union and does not become a member of Interpol. It has been said that if, therefore, it enters Kosovo into UNESCO, it will then become Kosovo's cultural heritage, we are talking about medieval Serb monasterys in KIM, and if Kosovo becomes a member of Interpol, then anyone who participated in the repression of armed rebellion and in the war against the KIM terrorist KLA could be indicted on an international warrant by Kosovo. So all Serbian, police and military officers can be found on these warrants, how many estimates were there of about 7,000. It is not clear to me that someone does not understand, if Serbia signs a legally binding agreement with Kosovo and Kosovo is thus made possible, without opposition from our advisers at the Security Council to become a member of the UN so-called. The republic of Kosovo will automatically become a member of both UNESCO and Interpol, and all these countries that have withdrawn recognition will recognise Kosovo's independence. There is something in international law called "collective recognition". So, if Kosovo is a formal member of the UN, it will be believed that all countries have individually recognised Kosovo's independence and there will be no further discussion. So, our process of Eurointegration, our process of so-called The dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina is in contradiction with what Serbian diplomacy is doing. What it will mean to us is all this activity and to withdraw recognition if Kosovo becomes a member of the UN. That can't happen without Serbia's consent. What will it mean to us to fight and to succeed in preventing Kosovo's membership of Interpol and UNESCO if Kosovo becomes a member of the UN? It won't mean anything. So, we must finally define ourselves or be committed to EU membership, that is what the government should say, and then we are not interested in the fate of KIM, because we know that without formal recognition of independence, it will be nothing, or we are committed to keeping Kosovo on the composition of the Republic of Serbia, and then Serbian diplomacy, i.e. She was engaged in the fact that the more countries withdraw that recognition, that their memberships are being challenged in international organisations, we see that it can be done, that it can be done successfully, but until when? There's something else in our foreign policy. So in one of the chapters in Serbia and EU negotiations, there must be a common foreign and security policy for all EU member states, and that is, above all, the introduction of sanctions to the Russian Federation, which is currently the EU's common foreign policy. So, apart from everything we're going to have to do with Kosovo, we're going to have to turn against Russia, to be one of the countries in Europe that are in front of Russia today. Are we ready for such a thing, and we know and we already know that it is clear to all of us that we cannot be a little in the process of European integration, and a little in keeping Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, these two things are in collegiate. As such, the European Union has recognised Kosovo's independence despite the fact that five member states have not recognised Kosovo, if not, would not have negotiated, i.e. would have no dialogue on the start of negotiations between Kosovo and the European Union and would not have been directed, and it was also the agreement of Serbia, the EU mission, which is called Eulex, which is dedicated to installing Kosovo institutions, so the EU forms the institutions of Kosovo. Do we belong in such an EU? Nineteen years we have been negotiating with the EU, and we are now like Turkey, it is clear to everyone that Turkey will not become an EU member, I think it should also be clear and that it will not become Serbia, especially because there are great differences between these people who come to Belgrade, Johannes Han, David McCallister, Jean Claude Junker and others from this European bureaucracy who have praised our progress here in the economics sphere, as we have done digitisation, as it is the 21st century in Serbia and so on. After hearing from some people who are the main political authorities in Europe, such as the President of France who has repeated several times and once again at the plenary session of the European Parliament that the EU will no longer expand, that the EU does not know what it will do with these remaining 27 members and that the EU will primarily be committed to reforming the existing situation. So there is no perspective either, it is not in 2025, as Vukic said, if the legally binding agreement is signed. And we pretend it's not true and yes, we probably know better than European officials do when we become EU members. I think it is high time to redefine Serbia's overall foreign policy. On the other hand, the EU is not the 1992 EU from Mastricht, the EU is now in the process of disintegration. For the first time, we have a situation where a country leaves the EU. For the first time, we have a situation that more political leaders of the largest European countries are not sure about the future of the EU. We act like it's still the organisation that European countries dream of. And in the sphere of economics today is the most developed part of the world and the richest and most successful and that's something that's going to be so and in perspective, it's the southeast of Asia, i.e. East Asia. Today is the center of world business and the world economy of Shanghai, it is no longer London. So, given all this, we should consider our foreign policy priorities and take our views accordingly, and, above all, respecting Serbia's Constitution and putting Kosovo's preservation within Serbia as a top priority. That's the point. We have recently made a statement from one of European officials that, of course, when Serbia is closer to the EU, it will have to break up its ties with Russia, and this recently signed contract, too. Protocol with the European Economic Union, as well as the Free Trade Agreement. So, we are now doing something that is in contradiction with this famous process of Eurointegration. So, what's the priority then? What's the question then? Do we want to develop the best possible relationship with Russia or do we want to join the EU? Somewhere we're not honest about one of those questions. The Serbian Radical Party has been staunchly in favour of the interruption of Eurointegration, especially when, when everyone was in Serbia, it is clear that it cannot do so without the extradition of Serbs to The Hague tribunal, that it cannot do so without Montenegro's independence, that it cannot do so without Kosovo's independence and the question of what else. We need a sober and clear view of today's situation in the world and in line with deciding whether we better co-operate with our traditional, sincere partners such as the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, the BRIKS countries and all others who co-operate with Serbia without political pressures, or whether we are on the path of European integration where there is no clear perspective of membership, or anything other than recognition of Kosovo's independence and in return we are offered to so-called. "Kosovo" recognises Serbia. So, a situation in which the Republic of Serbia, an internationally recognised country, a UN member, will receive recognition from the so-called. "Kosovo" and it's a success. That's what they'd give me, i.e. which we would get in relation to Kosovo's recognition. That's one absurd. The latest in this dialogue. On the other hand, we also see what they think in the EU and the US about the Serb people living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. No one has moved a millimeter to remove fees imposed on goods from central Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are directly directed against the Serb people. To say that the EU or the United States do not have the mechanisms to prevent it is unserious. I guess we understand who our real friends are. We are developing relations with the Russian Federation, through Serbia will pass "Turkish Stream", we have meetings at all levels, and in all of this, in this historic success, therefore, the level of relations, we are not ready to, as you said to Mr Dacic and what I support, which will not mean much in these agreements, visa waivers etc., but it is a symbolic gesture, and it is also a symbolic gesture to give diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis. We have even advocated and in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the Serbian Radical Party has collected more than 30,000 signatures for the establishment of another such centre. Let's show that we're Russian partners, to appreciate that Russia in the Security Council voted against a resolution in which Serbs were designated a genocide people because of this lie, so-called. "genocide" in Srebrenica, which is supported by the same ones from the EU and the political West, Great Britain, France and the United States. Here's a symbolic gesture to give diplomatic status to representatives of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. There's one more question in our foreign policy that we're a little concerned about. Every post-Communist country in Europe had to become a NATO pact member first of all to become an EU member. Examples such as Austria, Sweden or Finland cannot apply to Serbia, because these countries are not members of the NATO Pact, but they were not even under socialism, i.e. under real socialism. Serbia, above all, will have to become a NATO pact member. Is anyone ready for that today in Serbia? There's no other way. I think that today and at all it is time to seriously consider foreign policy priorities, to take care, first of all, of the long-term interests of the Serbian people, of our historical friends and allies, and not that it is all about getting some praise from Brussels or that we would continue to fool ourselves into becoming members of the EU someday.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60092	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60093	Thank you. I suggest we take one break of 10 minutes, no television transmission, no MPs in parliament. Mr. Chairman, I suggest you take a 10-minute break, since basketball ends and there's no...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60094	My colleague Markovic, you're welcome to set this up. He's got a transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60095	And there's no messenger in the O.R., so I don't know who to turn to. Mr. Dacic, all this stuff I'm gonna say, he knows my coalition partners. If it's not a problem, I mean, I don't condition it, but please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60096	Wait a minute to check on the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60097	Five more minutes and the end, or eight minutes, because I really don't have anyone else to talk to, except for the notaries who are going to put it in the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60098	Col. Markovic, there is a delayed transmission, so in any case you address the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you are completely equal with the other heads of parliament groups who spoke on this subject, were also not directly transferred, so if you want to ask for a word, if not – when there is a transfer, you will get the word, and we will continue with further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60099	I'm used to talking in front of the crowd, so I find it a little unusual, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Minister, JS, as well as the SPS, will support this bill. I want to tell you at first and to congratulate you, and to you, the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, for all that you have done in international relations when it comes to Serbia. I would not only talk about withdrawing the recognition of 15 states that have withdrawn recognition of KIM independence, but I would talk about other results and what is the economic interest of the Serbian state, which is that in recent years, since you are foreign minister, a large number of foreign investors are coming to Serbia, that Serbia has huge trust and that you represent Serbia in the right way, what you say in Serbia, you say that in the white world. More times when I go to a country, you are quoted as saying what you said during your stay in that country or those countries and that Serbia has never been more popular in international relations than in recent years, that you are a good tandem – President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and you as foreign minister. There is one definition for you, and that is flexibility, result, wisdom and what you want to say, and that no one is offended by international relations, except for that Pacoli, who you are a nightmare to. I'm sure he dreams of you every night, because he goes before you to lobby so he doesn't withdraw the recognition of this country, and when you leave, he's been carrying money and purses for nothing, so on and so forth, it's just like you present and what you're asking of that state. We were in Greece six, seven days ago at the closing of the JS office, or the end of the season, and there were over 5,000 people from almost all of Serbia's cities. Your speech was not with political messages and that you are now talking about politics. Your speech was dedicated to a song "There far away", and I was pleasantly surprised because all the present citizens sang that song "There is a far from the sea, there is Serbia" etc. And that even today convinces that this unity, the national one, that happened across the border in Greece, is not remembered in history that something like that happened in Serbia. These people who were present there are not members of the SPS or the JS. These are members of all parties, from the position and opposition. So, here, we sent a message. What else is most important? If you had told the citizens of Serbia -- don't go where you're afraid and where they beat you, but go where they love you. Everyone understood what that message meant. Then I read, I don't know, one of the five million Twitters, they say -- well, now they're singing, Serbs, I made Dacic sing. But, you and thanks to you, when Makron was in Serbia, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, listen to this, Marianne, listen, this is very important for you and for agricultural production, so Makron sang on Serbian "There Far Away". It is the future EU leader. It's art. It's an art, and it's an honor. But I want to point out that you started to return countries that were great friends of Yugoslavia and during Tito. Here, Egypt, for example, Egypt is a great country and Egypt has frozen its relations when it comes to recognising the independence of KIM. And I was in Egypt, in Hurgada, and there I was received by Mr. Governor of the Red Sea. What else did I do? We made a wax figure of General Sissi, the current president of Egypt. To remind Serbian citizens that General Sissi was chief of the General Staff of Egypt when they executed the coup, when the terrorist organisation "Muslim Brothers" was in power in Egypt. We made great friendly relations, thanks, of course, to you and the president of Serbia, but my little one did something about friendship with Egypt. The arrival of both China and 60,000 people employed in German factories. It is also very important what you did, because Serbia has become economically stable, politically secure, safe and that 60,000 Serbian citizens work in German companies. I must also say that you and I cut off 2008 to build a pro-European government and we didn't make a mistake then. Since then, investors have started to come to Serbia and the weather has changed since then, in the sense that nothing is the same as it was from 2000 to 2008. Of course, we weren't wrong when we created power with President Alexander Vukic. And that's where the big score came in. I am sure that in the next period of time, our coalition, which you run, will provide huge support, and not only will it provide huge support, you are one of the ministers who has so great a result that all ministers in the last twenty years of foreign affairs cannot boast of such a result in international relations. If Serbia and Serbia's citizens can travel to 93 countries without visas, it is one big result. We know what it was like before, when Serbian citizens were supposed to take out a visa to travel to a country. You have saved, when it comes to European countries, and it is known that in the diaspora, a huge number of Serbs are working. The visa cost 150 euros to go to Germany, Austria, France, Greece, etc., and plus two days has to decide to lose on the counters of these embassies. This is what we need to talk to citizens and that citizens know that we helped Serbian citizens travel to EU countries without a visa. Also, here is why the EU, America, does not take down the visa regime for Kosovo Albanians, or so on. Autonomous Independent Kosovo? I'm sure Mr. Wolfie and you don't mind. Well, that would be best liked by Kosovo Albanians, but they are afraid that Kosovo Albanians will not go to European countries and that these European states have a militant nation, which is causing a problem wherever it is. I also want to say, yesterday I heard, that is today, that it is forbidden for the president of Serbia to go to Kosovo as president of Serbia, who wants to address citizens, Serbs at KIM. Alexander Vukic doesn't send militant messages. He goes to Kosovo and Metohija to tell Serbs and those who live that we will lead a peaceful policy, that Serbia is for compromise, etc. Why does Mr. Palmer keep his mouth shut now? Why doesn't he issue a statement at the same time and say -- you have to let the president of Serbia go, because Resolution 1244 is still in force, where Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia? Also, the Brussels Agreement does not say in any member that it requires the consent of self-proclaimed Kosovo officials to go to KIM from Serbia. I have concluded before that it is a occupied state and that the occupation is all the time supported by some countries that are allegedly friends with Serbia. It's just that my message to Mr. Palmer is not to be him like all the present representatives, when they come, we say, "yeah, they're our friends, and there's no results." I'm afraid that the global policy of these countries doesn't change by personal change and that you know it very well. I would also like to congratulate you when on the Security Council you gave that lady, when you said in Serbian what you were supposed to say and that it was accepted in the people, that you couldn't kill us when we were on the floor without being right anymore. International law has been violated. However, international law is respected wherever a terrorist act occurs in any EU country, and when it happens in Kosovo and Metohija, it is extremism. It's individual and don't look at the whole thing -- says Haradinaj, that war criminal -- don't look at the whole, don't think so Kosovo people. Let's see how far those Kosovo Albanians will make some decisions that harm Serbia and that, on the other hand, does not stand in any act, no agreement. They do it skillfully. Every new thing they introduce against Serbia, we forget the previous and forget the community of forming Serb municipalities, here, now, the last, taxes, well, I don't know, they threatened us not to enter Kosovo and Metohija with Serbian passports, so they beat the director of the Office, etc., etc. These countries that are friends of Serbia, we are not now asking Germany to withdraw recognition of KIM independence, or, I don't know, America and these other countries, because they bombed Yugoslavia and therefore want to justify their actions to bomb Yugoslavia. But they are denied by the book of Dick Marty, so they are denied by Carla del Ponte, who now speaks differently than she spoke as chief prosecutor of the Hague tribunal. And we now need to use those former ones, who speak positively about Serbia. When I was in America at the inauguration of Donald Trump, I was accepted by Steven Mer, former deputy director of the CIA in charge of the Balkans. We were sitting in a big restaurant and he said -- listen, you Serbs, you now need everything that's signed in Brussels to throw in the basket and say it's no longer valid. And I say - and why didn't you say that when you were in charge of the Balkans? He says it was a different time then. So it took time to pass, to see why they bombed Serbia and Yugoslavia, which can never recover from NATO aggression and that for Serbia's fall of birth, the main culprit is not only the economic condition, which improves year after year, but it is these bombs, cluster bombs with impoverished uranium, which have fallen and that today every fourth woman in Serbia, then a girl or child, can't remain pregnant or carry out pregnancy. We have to endure and our commission works a little faster. It doesn't have to, if we've given her two years, it's been so long, what's she got to do for two years, if some of the countries that NATO's members sued the pact because their soldiers at the time died of cancer, soldiers who killed the Serb people and destroyed bridges and destroyed Serbia. To speed up the process a little bit and say -- here, the Commission has made a record, so many tons of bombs have fallen, so many have been killed, so many people in those parts, there's been an increased disease of cancer, etc. I'm not saying you don't say that, but, officially, we all need to stop and that there is a national unity. Here national unity exists only for a pair of MPs, those of the opposition, when they go to the counter. Only this national unity exists. All hands on the counter. And there is no national unity when it comes to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and let's see what we can do together. Let us disagree on politics, but let us see how to preserve territory, space, Kosovo and Metohija and come out together with the platform, as Kosovo Albanians homogenised. They now, in the election campaign, all feel the same way. And to ask that war crimes court for the UCK, which was built in The Hague, why did the court release Haradinaj? Well, it wasn't Haradinaj who stole his bike from the Serbian courtyard in Peca, or I don't know where, but killed the Serb people, Serbian children, etc. Defended by silence. Well, where's that? Is there even international law? How is it not a shame for those judges who make such a decision? And he came back, got a number of political points, Thaci too, that Ljimaj too, and will once again make power, where global national policy will be even worse for Serbia. That's why we lack unity, the consensus of all political parties. Now, all the time, some meetings, looking for opposition, a media block, or I don't know what. Well, why didn't you come here today to talk? Is anyone defending you? But what's the problem? The problem is that those outside parliament, the opposition, are blackmailing the opposition from parliament to leave parliament. These guys have got to get out, 'cause they can't get past the censorship on their own. And that's not the problem with the Wolf and the media block, and I don't know what, they're the problem with each other. We simply need to tell the opposition and the citizens of Serbia -- we are in favour of something else, something that is the interest of Serbia, the fight against white plague, the arrival of foreign investors, international popularity. Well, when was so many statesmen in Serbia 15 years ago? They've only changed Milosevic before, everything's going to be okay, so I was little when Milosevic was replaced, now I'm a grandfather and I'm still waiting to join the EU. Where's the money that's been taken by those who aren't here today? Where are they? Whose pocket did they end up in? Now we wait, that's what you, Ivica, said well in Slovenia, said Ivica in Slovenia, promised, promised something in Serbia, father to buy a child and die, says, waiting, but, he says, from Turkey, I'm sure, the one who signed the EU candidate status died, he's no longer alive, and we want to be alive, and we, and our children, to welcome and say -- here, we who are dealing with politics and we did that, and not to be told by our friends -- we need the EU, first, to reform within the EU. What did you come here to talk about? Go over there and talk to those guys. When you come to Serbia, say – Serbia has respected all its international obligations, to your credit, you have passed 97% of the laws, those that are European laws. We are passing European laws to create our own contingents tomorrow, how many peasants are going to produce brandy, milk, how much iron we are going to produce, how many cements, etc., because we are going to disturb one of the EU countries, we are going to be her market competition. They resented us for bringing the Chinese. How did we get it? The interest of the state. Why didn't you answer the tender? Why didn't you buy Smedera's Iron? Why did we bring them to RTB Bor? RTB Bor collapsed, someone offered to make toothpicks and hockey chairs for the husband of a cow, and forgot that now they're men's cow machines. Rarely when he's sitting on a hockey horse to milk a cow. Mr Dacicu, not on behalf of our SPS-JS coalition, but on behalf of Serbian citizens, I live in central Serbia, so you know, I contact people every day and support what you do and what the president of the Republic of Serbia does, but the foreign ministry differs from other ministries, it differs positively. When Serbia chaired the OSCE, 1700 delegates from around the world came to Serbia, 44 senior statesmen. It wasn't even when Tito made the summit of the unclassified. That was really impressive. There was both the president of Serbia and you. These people then met Serbia and that Serbia is not what the strong lobbyists against Serbia depicted on the world's big media, but they said -- you Serbs are real hosts, you are neither slaughterers, nor militant people, and you have not waged wars that took someone's territory, conquerive wars, but have waged defensive wars. And since then, politics has started to change in a positive way. You should continue and lift visas from all the friendly states of Serbia, whoever wants to be friends with Serbia, and especially African-Arab states, which are huge, to work with them, because they and some countries didn't even know where Serbia was, or what was happening to Serbia, but thanks to you... The other day, the plane hit a thunderbolt that you barely stayed alive. That in history didn't happen to tell you that lightning hit something and it passed. So, it'd be your first Saturday, thank God not on Saturday, so Hansel Dacic won't even thunder, folks. Not because he's ours, but because he needs the whole world. He is the best peacemaker and as such has brought results and thanks to Serbian President Dacic for choosing Dacic as first associate. A unique Serbia in voting day will vote and support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60100	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Dušica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60101	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I decided to start my presentation today with a quote from the book "The Paths of Serbian diplomacy" by Mikhail Vojvodic, who, in the opening part of this book, speaks of these historic occasions that ruled in young Serbia that fought for its independence in the 19th century. The quote says this - Serbia has succeeded politically over the decades of the 19th century and in every other aspect of building itself up, resolving its liberation in stages and obtaining international recognition in 1878, gaining independence. That means that almost every generation, one of the stages, ended with success. It wasn't just war effort that decided on it. One of the main funds in this struggle was the instruments of her foreign policy. It was then, and I would say it would also require a lot of skill to conclude and achieve various bilateral or multilateral international agreements, to gain or strengthen the country's autonomous status, to abolish Turkey's administration and to strengthen the country's international position. The best examples of such policymaking were provided by Prince Michael and Prince Milos, the end of the quote. I have the impression that after recognising independence at the Berlin Congress, Serbia has been constantly dealing with this very political and economic independence of political and economic empowerment. Serbia is more than ever today, I think it is struggling to protect its vital, national interests, to strengthen politically and economically, independently lead its foreign and internal policy, to establish friendships and partnerships both in the east and in the west and with neighbours and with the whole region. President Alexander Vucic's policy has just shown a difference between the previous regime and we have really better, regional co-operation now, we form a customs union and we work really well with all our neighbours in the region, but also in Southeast Europe, we work together with EU countries and we work with the whole world. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has just regained our country's international reputation. He opened the door for co-operation with all the leading forces in the world and with Germany and with France, Italy, Hungary, China, Russia, 11/2 MG/MP America, I would say with the whole world. There are no big and small countries for us, big or small sons, we really make sure that we establish good bilateral relations with all the countries of the world. We have our own policy supported by the people in the elections, led by Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, who is being conducted by the entire government headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. It's just that someone who's maligned can't see and admit it as a result. Now I'd like to point out the following things. In the era of globalisation, when there is really a deterioration of time, the primary goal of every statesman, every diplomat or businessman is to achieve successful co-operation with foreign partners in the future, to work towards establishing good state relations, diplomacy, foreign policy based on solid foundations, to ensure the further development of our country and to ensure further progress of all our citizens. The agreements we're adopting today are four agreements that are ahead of us today, and that's exactly what they're doing. And an agreement with the Republic of Myanmar, with Paraguay, Suriname, the Dominican Republic. In international relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements that abolish visas is considered the most significant step towards creating what favourable conditions for further improving political, economic relations, but I would also say a kind of versatile co-operation in cultural, scientific and other relations, in the international interest and importance for all relevant partners. An agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official passports. It's signed, I want to remind all fellow MPs in Asunion on 25 March 2019. These agreements will take effect after the National Assembly adopts them, their main goal is to create the best conditions to step up further co-operation and further relations between the four countries with the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of diplomacy and diplomatic relations, I want to remind all citizens that diplomacy is not a new phenomenon. It's been there since there's been war and trade. The word diplomacy stems from the Greek word diploma, referring to a double folded paper that served as proof of the final study. She later marked official documents so that she could gain modern meaning only in the 18th century. Modern diplomacy is a product of our time, the 21st century has strongly influenced the further development of diplomacy and diplomatic relations. Since the Internet and globalisation appeared, diplomatic activities have also experienced changes, and how they flourish. This is particularly true of the organisation of diplomacy, diplomatic processes, as well as diplomatic means and methods. According to author Stanko Nik's approach, diplomacy is equated with the skills of negotiating and developing international relations. It's just something that's crucial. It is the negotiation that constitutes the main activity of every good statesman, every good diplomat, and it always refers to the policy of the state it represents. Diplomatism often exceeds the framework of self-negotiation, the skills of negotiation. She's always more than that. The American State Department in the 21st century defines diplomacy as a 21st century state. There are different attitudes both in theory and in practice about what diplomacy is today and what it should be. I am closest to the definition of diplomacy given by Barston, who believes that diplomacy is related to the management of relations between states and other actors and that it refers to counselling, embezzlement, implementation of foreign policy. Its function is to accelerate communication between states, political leaders and other actors in world politics. Conceptally, diplomacy is also understood as an art, knowledge, skills, practice and function of institutions and is always tied to good statesmen, to good diplomats. Serbian history is indeed rich in good statesmen, good diplomats, by Ilia Garasanin, Nikola Pasic, Jovan Ristic, Stojan Novakovic, Jovan Ducic. I want all the citizens and all the people's MPs to die on this very day 120 years ago, one of them was Jovan Ristic, one of which I would say is the gray eminence of our foreign policy, the man who is one of the most responsible for the Berlin Congress and for gaining our country's independence. Today as MPs and as citizens, we are really facing the phenomenon of a lot of information, but also the disinformation that is spreading through cyberspace, the speeds that have been imaginable throughout history. Exactly the 19th century I was talking about at the beginning of my presentation. Communication has become almost instantaneous today, and we can get information on the click. It's believed that a modern man today only gets more than 30,000 information in one day, I'd say disinformation. The Internet has introduced the state into major problems, as it does not know the state borders, changed the classical notion of a country that was once a monopoly on information, and today the modern state is facing a number of challenges, because its citizens have the opportunity to inform themselves from other sources and to face the truths in public space. Data manipulations, information is no longer the same for a simple reason, because on the Internet they are available about so-called The truths no matter who placed them. The danger of state secrets can be caused by users of new information communication technologies, the best shown the Wikiliks affair, when the US Foreign Ministry's diplomatic cables became available to the public via the internet. In Serbia, we are not spared false news, any fiction. I will refer to the latest examples of false news placement, false news that our country's President Aleksandar Vukic allegedly said Serbia does not need experts, as world-famous geneticist Miodrag Stojkovic is known, which is of course not true. It is dear viewers, dear folk MPs, dear colleagues who are just the best example of false news placement, harmful news aimed at using the name of one of the heads of state in a classical way, the name of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I really believe in our authorities, in the D.A.'s office, first of all, that they're going to investigate this whole case. I see Tanjug reacted that the announcement wasn't his, that the Tanjug agency reacted that it wasn't his, that they didn't place it, but I really believe in the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia, that they would question, I would say, the motives that led to the placement of such false news. This is not the only example of false news in Serbia. I come from Belgrade, from the township of Rakovic, and I remember that recently there was information that drinking water in the Belgrade waterway was not for drinking. Also, there was false information that 3,000 deaths were burned in the craftsmanship plant and many other nonsense and fiction. It is indeed on the move like some chess table at the moment of the Prosecutor's Office of High-Technological Crime, is this and this news fatal to Serbia and all its citizens. Also, I want to say, on the one hand, we have hyperproduction, I would say false news, the satanization of public space with one basic goal of causing damage to the SNS, all responsible people in the SNS from the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, ministers in the government, Ana Brnabic, to all those local SNS officials. While on the other hand he wants to throw something else, historic advertising wealth, minutes, seconds of advertising space by Dragan Gilas, who is still silent today, and has not given us answers as to how he earned his money, how he earned the property he himself reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency and which amounts, only in real estate, Gilas earned 25m euros. The truth is this, he was only taking shifts from function to function, he was headed by the director of the National Office, the MIP Minister, then the mayor of Belgrade, and we can see that development road of Dragan Gilas, going from stairs to stairs, from function to function, and how he crisscrossed and turned really huge wealth from 2004 to 2013. True, to these truths and to the malfeasance around advertising space, most of the deceased Verica Barać pointed out in a report on the state of the media, which is one of the best, I would say in a plastic way, to prove how Dragan Gilas used the most state-owned functions for personal benefit only, for the benefit of his companies that did business with state-owned enterprises, and the biggest profit of Gilas's company was just in co-operation with state-owned enterprises, as a state-owned public service such as RTS and as Telekom, through the accounts of the "Darekt Media", "Multicom Group", the printing press "Big Print" has turned to millions, they contambled with really lightning speed. It's been over 60 billion dinars through the hands, through the accounts of Gilas's companies. I'd really like to call, I belong to some younger generation of people living in Serbia, I know how hard it is to work and earn, pay taxes to the state and move on from that profit, I'd like to really call this economic Houdini, to explain to us this Czech chemistry how he earned money by trading in Czech gum and the rights to broadcast different emissions. While we are today discussing important international agreements and establishing more intensive co-operation with countries that have not recognised Kosovo and have not voted for the admission of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo to UNESCO, such as Paraguay or Myanmar or Surinam, which is one of the 15 states that have withdrawn Kosovo's recognition. Let's learn something from our historical mistakes. Chances in the world really change, no one can love us as Serbs more, appreciates what we can love, respect and respect as ourselves. In international relations like that of old Churchill, there are no permanent friends or our permanent enemies, there are only our permanent interests, and our interests and interests of the Republic of Serbia, our national interests are the preservation of our people's culture, traditions, languages, our roots. Because if we lose it, I'm afraid we'll lose everything. We have seen on our skin how it is that Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, Đilas represent us, represent us on the inside, but worse, I would say, on an international basis, which are the results of their devastating policy. It's not, I'd say, not politics, it's politics, it's foreigning, give it everything, sell it right away for nothing, for a handful of dollars, for a handful of nothing. They did not have the country's international reputation, they did not have the protection of Serbs in KIM. I wonder who set up those administrative crossings between Serbs and Serbs on Jarinj and Brnjak? We didn't set them up, they set them up. We are not the ones who have thrown out the settlement of the KIM issue from the UN's wing and introduced the EU. We inherited these problems from them, and they are now offering absolutely no platform to solve these problems, they are offering a boycott of elections in central Serbia and Vojvodina, but are for KIM elections on 6 October. I ask all my dear colleagues - who's crazy here? So they're supporting the October 6th election at KIM. They have a list they support, and they will not vote and have a list in elections in central Serbia and Vojvodina. Serbia has indeed strengthened political, economic and financial thanks to Alexander Vukic, if you will in any other respect. Serbia is today a relevant and reliable partner on the international scene. Serbia is believed today. We have little or few opportunities to see in the media, on Serbian streets a large number of world statesmen, presidents, prime ministers, great forces of China, Russia, France, Germany. The result of our foreign policy is visible. The 15 states withdrawing Kosovo's recognition is above all, I would say, the merit of a man. I don't agree with my previous speaker, Mr. Markovic, who said it was solely the merit of Ivica Dacic. It is the merit of a man, President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who restored our country's international reputation and credibility, and it is commendable. We need to talk to the whole world today to protect and satisfy our interests, to strengthen our country, restore our international reputation, to protect our citizens, both in KIM and in central Serbia and in Vojvodina, to protect our monasteries, our churches, our cultural heritage, to protect our language. With Serbia now everyone wants to negotiate, to do business, to sit at the same table. Let's continue to be attractive to foreign direct investment, because that is why we are leaders and I want to remind you, based on the Financial Times, Serbia is a leader in Southeast Europe in the attractiveness of foreign direct investment. It is this attraction that is often much easier to achieve goals than by coercion as written by the famous Joseph Naj when he spoke of some power to achieve goals, than by coercion as wrote by the famous Joseph Naj when he spoke of soft power. The soft force is the ability to achieve its goals by means of attraction, not coercion, i.e. that others do what you want, and you don't force them to do it. The most claims that American power by its continuity and quality is different from the powers that America once had and powers that had previous powers. Also, one of the most famous works of diplomacy, the art of war, written centuries ago, says that it cannot be seen that only technology has changed, and that everything else remains on the international agenda, policymaking, foreign policy and diplomacy. Sun Cua's thought of an ancient and military strategist says it's best to win without a fight and today it's worth it, today it can be applied. I'd like to say that it's very important that we take advantage of the opportunity, the experience of other countries, and not to be repeaters, as we may have once been during history. The Serbian people are a victorious people, the Serbian people are a proud people, we were on the side of allies, the power of winners in both world wars, both in World War I and World War II. Somehow I have a feeling that in diplomacy and international relations, we've often lost through history, we haven't gotten enough, as much as it might have belonged to us. Let's keep winning in these fields as well. In the end, I end my presentation today, I want to take the opportunity to invite all Serbs to come out and support the Serb list in the KIM elections, held on 6 October this year. It is clear to all of us that all who participate outside of the Serb list work exclusively for Albanians on another list, and against the interests of Serbs and Serbs living on KIM, against the interests of the Republic of Serbia, is against the interests of our country. I call on all Serbs with KIM and those living in central Serbia, Vojvodina, to use their voting rights and vote and support the Serb list in the October 6th extraordinary parliamentary elections to continue with what I started today's exposure, which is a word of building a better, more certain future for everyone on KIM, but also other parts of our beautiful Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60102	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. My colleague Markovic, since I have just taken over the presidency, as far as I understand you want a replica of my colleague Stojkovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60103	Your Honor, obviously you didn't listen to me. So, I was saying that President Vukic has the greatest merits, and that Ivica Dacic is helping him and that Vic Dacic is a resolute minister, and if you follow everything that I did and said, I always said what the president of the Republic of Serbia did, but obviously you didn't listen, because someone was writing a speech for you, so you were practicing earlier, that you would certainly know that I had mentioned Serbian President Alexander Vukic at least six times. Neither can anyone take away my right to mention Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, and I don't understand why we should be breaking down now that you resented me, and I've been talking all along about the Serbian national issue, about positive things that the president of Serbia is doing in tandem with Ivica Dacic. So you're just wrong. You mentioned me, and I'll answer you another time to practice at home, don't practice here when you're writing a speech to listen to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60104	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? (No) We are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of the agenda. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60105	I thank the chairman. Here, to deny previous speakers that opposition MPs will not support these agenda points. I will support all the proposed points of the agenda, I will plead – yes, and thus give my contribution to those countries that respect Serbian interests and, at the same time, express my congratulations to all those who have contributed to the increase in the number of countries that have withdrawn recognition of so-called. an independent state of Kosovo. Also, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to transfer to all members of the government that the action will not stop for anything or under any pressure. Serbia must look at its interests, and Serbia's only interest is respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, respect for Resolution 1244, and respect for the UN Charter. Everything beyond that and beyond that, I personally believe that the step towards the betrayal of Serbia is the opinion of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I ask that you bear in mind. I would also take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the assistance he provided in regulating the passports, so to speak, or visas, for a group of Serbian children who went on a journey of educational and cultural history. This aid opened my eyes to one question and I want to ask that question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister - why are the citizens of Serbia from the KIM area being discriminated against and have to obtain visas, Schengen visas from those countries for which Serbian citizens from the central area and the Vojvodina area do not have to obtain visas? I think that the Republic of Serbia must make all these states aware that it introduces reciprocity if our citizens in the area of KIM regardless of nationality are required by the Schengen visa, then we too must condition so many visas to the citizens of those countries. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity, since the budget of the Republic of Serbia is being prepared for 2020 and since agriculture is, despite the increase in the agrarian budget, much behind what belongs to it under the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, that, at least in the coming year, agriculture will receive the minimum 5% that belongs to it under the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act. Also, I suggest that in the 500 Villages 500 Cooperatives action, in addition to donations made for the purchase of equipment or breeding throats to members of cooperatives, you should also assist human resources restoration in cooperatives, at least in the amount given to foreign investors for the employment of our workers. If we form cooperatives without relevant experts, these cooperatives will not have a long-term perspective. If we're already giving 50 thousand or 500 thousand, I guess we can give another 10,000 euros per cooperative to provide it with human resources, so that that money doesn't fail or that the cooperative doesn't stagnate in its development. And finally, I support all actions related to the resuscitation of the village and I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia establish the key to supporting rural citizens, which means that the parity is minimal that seven urban municipalities in the epicentre of Belgrade receive for infrastructure per capita, 70% of which is minimal for rural citizens, so that they can solve infrastructure problems. Any other approach without financial support will not produce adequate results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60106	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60107	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, Honorable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia, otherwise I was elected from the SNS list, and I represent in the Serbian Assembly the United Peasant Party. As a folk MP, together, at the Parliament Club of the Socialist-National Peasant Party-United Peasants Party, I will vote in favour of all these proposals of the agreement, because I think this is important for us, for our children, for our children. The adoption of these agreements gives us the opportunity for these countries to come to us, to get visas, to have their citizens, but on the other hand, a large number of those countries did not recognise Kosovo or withdraw recognition of Kosovo. Gratitude for all these things that are happening right now around the world, that a large number of countries are withdrawing Kosovo's recognition. The great gratitude, the greatest thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, who, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is with our prime minister, with the first Deputy Prime Minister and all our ministers, is working to ensure that the more countries withdraw the recognition of Kosovo and thus not give Kosovo the opportunity to do what it is doing now and to do very bad things, negative things for all people in Kosovo and here in Serbia. Otherwise, we now have elections in Kosovo on 6 October. The elections are very important to us and we have one list down there, it's the Serbian List. The Serbian list equals Serbia. The Serb list is equal to the policy of our President Alexander Vukic. Therefore, I call on our people living in Kosovo and Metohija to vote in favour of our Serb list, to vote in favour of the future of our country of Serbia along with Kosovo. We are all working together to make everyone better, but on the other hand this is our country's policy, the policy of our Serbian President, our government, our foreign minister, Mr Dacic, is a policy that allows our country Serbia to have passages everywhere, that everyone respects and respects us, and I can really say with pleasure that in the territory of Southeast Serbia we now have a low airport which is a very recognizable, very strong airport, where a large number of passengers from all countries are coming. As we can see, 73 countries in the world, in these countries we don't need a visa to go there, and over 80 countries can come to Serbia without a visa, which means all these people who come to Serbia are coming across the low airport, across this new highway that's been done or doing highways. All these people come to southeastern Serbia, come to Nis, come to small communities, small municipalities, and this is a big campaign to promote our tourism, our healthy food. All of us living there are witnesses that the southeast of Serbia has a great chance of developing and developing tourism, and in this way we have a chance to leave these people to live there, to work and to live from their work. I'm sure by agreeing to these agreements, we will now once again support development and our better co-operation with the whole world. On the other hand, I think that here and our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic and our Government, we are all working together in the interests of our citizens of Serbia, because we are witnessing that Serbia is really very well, that it is excellently listed in the world, that big forces are changing opinions, that things that were different so far are changing, now it is in favour of our country of Serbia. By the way, I was a member of Parliament and visited Slovenia for several days, where I was also in a delegation with our Assembly President, Mrs Mayo. As a Serbian delegation, we were at the President of the National Assembly of Slovenia, Mr Dejan Ždanov, where people waited for us, respected us, where we have a great friendship with our friends from Slovenia. The state of Slovenia is supporting us, supporting our country to join the EU and normally with all other EU member states. On the other hand, the delegation's arrival is expected, as I and the president of the Association of Friendship with Slovenia are expected to be the arrival of a delegation of their MPs in the Serbian Parliament, where the president of this Club of Friendship with Serbia before the National Assembly Predrag Baković, the MP who was already here in Serbia, was with us in Nis, was with me in Svrlig and the man with his delegation will come to us on September 16th, where we will visit our Assembly together, we will visit the beauty of the city of Belgrade, but the essence of everything is because we made an agreement that when they come to us, they are not only here in Belgrade, but also to come to Nis, to see the beauty of Nis, Nisovic district, southeastern Serbia and normally come to Srlig, because Serbia is not only here where Belgrade is. Serbia is also Nis, Serbia is both Srlig and Serbia is all that lies in both the east and the west, both in the north and in the south. So, I think our country Serbia is going straight forward and we are witnessing that there are very nice and positive things. Opening highways, openings, making railways, new airports, these are all things where tomorrow as MPs, as citizens, we have the opportunity for tourists to come to us, to see everything we have to show, and God gave, Serbia is a country that has a large number of nice things, good things. The most important thing about us is that Serbia is the country of all of us people who are in the first place good hosts and we've always shown it. Serbia's President, Mr. Vukic, together with the government of the Republic of Serbia, with the first vice-president of the government, is working on doing this and working together with us to further put an emphasis on the development of the economy, the development of agriculture, the development of undeveloped small areas such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gadjin Han, such as a large number of municipalities in southeast Serbia. Just so, by investing in these small communities, these small municipalities, where we look in every way to provide funds to put the development of these municipalities, to provide jobs, to provide better conditions for the birth of children, and I think that only when we provide better conditions for the people who live there, and we can do so only with the support of the countries and the EU and Russia and China and all who want good Serbia, to come along with them, to come to us, to see the beauty of our municipalities, to see the beauty of our cities. Finally, I'm sure they'll have to bring more of those next year. The state of Serbia and we here in the Serbian Parliament are really trying to ensure an even greater number of people who will come to us here in Serbia, to tour our small environments, once again I think Serbia is a country that gives a great opportunity to develop young people, develop agriculture, develop everything that has not been done by 2012. We have been witnessing since 2000, since 2012, a lot of bad things have happened, in one part because the privatized factories have been in the worst way, to the detriment of our people, to the harm of our citizens, which agriculture has been placed on the margins, which are municipalities that were small and undeveloped have been placed on the margins. Now through investment in roads, railways, airports, investment in both local roads and investment in industry, it is now a chance to develop our country of Serbia. As humans, we put a man in the first place, for one is said and always has to be said our patriarch, the previous one, said, Paul, “Let us be men. ” Once again, I, as a folk MP, will vote in favour of these proposals for an agreement and as president of the United Peasants' Party, will give support to the policy of development of our country's Serbia, to spread our ties, to hear about Serbia in the best way possible, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic does. Once again, distinguished colleagues, MPs, citizens of Serbia, I, as president of the United Peasant Party and a man living in southeastern Serbia, in the small municipality of Svrlig, will support all these proposals, with the invitation to be people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60108	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60109	Thank you. Dear Ministers Dacic, Mr Odalovic and Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agreements that we have on the agenda today and we are discussing are only one small part of diplomatic activities and diplomatic offensives that our country has implemented over the past few years, and this is part of the sure vision and leadership of President Aleksandr Vukic, who in a very high quality way, with how we see very, very good concrete results by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. As much as some previous political furniture did not take care of the so-called. The small, perhaps not influential countries, so much today, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state, but also our majority in parliament, take care of relations with each country, which can benefit the Republic of Serbia, our citizens and the defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. I am sure that at least 50%, the minister will certainly correct me, he knows better, he has a better insight, he travels more and he knows most people who run foreign policy in all countries of the world, but I'm sure 50% of those countries who have recognised unilaterally declared independence from 2008 to 2012 have done so precisely because of the inactivity of our country, our government and our diplomacy, because those people who were then in power, who were in charge of foreign policy, didn't care about foreign policy, they didn't care about our country's geopolitical position and ultimately, they didn't care that every week or every month they recognized some new, non-important and non-essential state for us. We came to the situation in 2012 that more than a hundred countries recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence. What is the result today, what we are talking about today, which is 14 countries only in the past year and a half that have withdrawn or, as it is said, suspended the recognition of KIM as an independent state is one concrete and huge success of our diplomacy and I am sure that this trend so-called. Recognising KIM as an independent and independent state continues in the future. That's what the minister himself announced. The result could not be made from cabinets, could not be made from Belgrade, but had to be done by making this man, our minister, travel from America, through Surinam, Africa, very often and in one move, and it is part of dedicated work, it is part of the commitment to the goal of patriotism and patriotism and commitment to the national interests of his country. This is what distinguishes the policy of Alexander Vukic and those who led the country from 2008 to 2012. These are concrete results. These concrete results are not viewed only in the further support of those countries that have always supported us, which traditionally support us. I'm going to talk a little bit today about how it's not easy and it's very strategically good that we've been renovating, what we've reset relations with countries like the Republic of Paraguay, such as the Republic of Suriname, such as the Myanmar Union, and also countries that have not recognised unilaterally declared independence of KIM, but also countries that have done so, such as today we're talking about the Dominican Republic, about many African countries. The minister was almost in Peru, and the result is that so-called the freezing of this recognition, like, I can set an example for some European countries that have officially admitted so-called. Kosovo, but do not maintain any diplomatic relations, nor do they call delegations of temporary institutions to any gatherings, nor maintain economic relations, nor do they maintain any kind of relationship with separatists at KIM, such as Poland. And this is one big result of this big, big offensive, with everything that these small countries, which may not be so influential in the world of diplomacy, but are important for the survival of Serbia, but are important for Serbia to ensure the maximum and best possible way to protect its national interests. What is most important for our country, and what Aleksandar Vucic has done in the best possible way since 2012 and to this day, this is just a balanced foreign policy, it is precisely that Serbia today respects both the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, but also the EU countries, the United States, the countries of the Far East, Latin America, the Middle East. But today we're working hard with them. We're not just talking in newspaper articles and interviews about how we're going to defend our territory and our people, but we're working specifically on defending our own, so that everyone in the world will now admit it, and even those Americans who were and who were still the cartridges of independence so-called. Kosovo. But this offensive of Vucic and Minister Ivica Dacic led to the fact that this US administration, which is very rare today when it comes to the orientation and foreign policy of such powerful and great forces, is now the most powerful political, military, economic power in the world, may not make a concrete move when it comes to recognising the so-called political, military, economic power in the world. Kosovo, but the US approach to resolving the KIM issue, the approach to respecting Serbia's legitimate interests has definitely changed, and this is what the appointment of President Tramp, when it comes to Meta Palmer, is about a special envoy for the Balkans, because what Minister Dacic says - well, what would be appointed by a special envoy for the Balkans if it's all over, if we just need to sign some normalisation and if we should recognise each other with so-called. Kosovo? Well, it's not over. It's not over. And John Bolton says it's not over and Philip Riker says it's not over, and Berkeley says it's not over. Philip Riker, I must say, it is very important, and it is somehow ignored in our media and in the speeches of our politicians, to what it honors us, or to the whole world, and the EU and the Federal Republic of Germany, when it says, you know, if there is any compromise, if there is a division, if there is demarcation, demarcation, whatever you want to say, Pandora's box will open up. Philip Riker openly said, as assistant secretary of state of the United States, that Pandora's box opened in 1990, when Yugoslavia fell apart and that nothing drastic would happen if the nations, if the leadership agreed to compromise. Unfortunately, we, on the other hand, have people who were members and leaders of a terrorist organisation, who are even personally, they have no command responsibility, but also personal responsibility in the killings, those we are still looking for today, that Mr. Odalovic is very well aware and doing a great job, and I hope together, we here in Parliament with him and with all the people of the Foreign Ministry, to work on promoting the truth, to strengthen and aggressive propaganda towards the American people, to the US Congress, to the Senate, to the State Department, to everyone, for the reason that we in the 1990s, unfortunately, have lost the propaganda war. But, slowly, with all these activities, with this diplomatic offensive that we're carrying out, with what's always going on in the world of geopolitical and foreign policy and our activities, I have to mention here this meeting of President Vukic with Michael Pompey in New York, a working lunch that lasted two hours, the Americans want to hear Serbia. Vukic contributed that this force, the world's most powerful force, respects Serbia's legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija, wants to listen to us. Minister Dacic said a hundred times and that is 100% truth - until 2016, until the administration took over Trump and his people, it wasn't even on the table. When you go to the House of Representatives or to the Senate and you have a meeting with your colleagues, that's the thing that's been over for them. Now the situation has changed. I think that we from parliament can also support this idea, support and call on our people, our diaspora, wherever they live, to support those who respect Serbia's legitimate interests. And that's where I totally agree with the minister. And that should be our policy. And we shouldn't be embarrassed about it. Well, we're not going to call on our numerous, strong and very active diaspora to support those political factors, at least we in parliament can do so and invite, because we have autonomy as MPs, we've been chosen by the will of the people and we can do perhaps something more than the foreign minister or any other member of the government that is limited to international agreements, contracts, agreements and diplomatic practice and protocol or good diplomatic behavior. In any case, what is essential to us, Serbia today, headed by Alexander Vukic, is carrying out Serbia's national interest, implementing Serbian politics. No one rules our policies. No ambassador here can come and dictate to us what we should do, how to do and how to withdraw every day from fighting for our national interests. Today, Serbia is fighting, as Vukic fights every day for a new job, for a new kilometer of highway, for every citizen of this country, for every factory, for modernising this country, for our legitimate interests, for the security of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. I will join some colleagues to invite our people in Kosovo and Metohija to vote for the Serbian list. Finally, our people are united. Finally, we are not ashamed to hold frequent government meetings with the Republika Srpska government. Finally, we have our brothers from Montenegro, we have Stojiljkovic from Macedonia, we have our people from Republika Srpska, and thus we show the unity of our people, because it is the only way to be a nation and a country that can advance and that can defend its strategic and, of course, our national interests. Just like that. Some others were once ashamed to condemn the pogrom, a crime that took place against the Serbs, it was a shame to condemn the "Storm", because of good relations with those who again, after 70 years, extract from the holes of the skeletons and corpses of those who killed during World War II, wishing that our people in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, disappeared. We won't, of course, let that happen anymore. Of course, full support of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia by signing all these agreements that will result not only in better political, but in economic and other relations with these countries with which we will sign the agreements. I just want to express my satisfaction and, of course, support for President Vukic and Minister Ivica Dacic on his truly committed, serious and committed, selfless work to safeguard our territory and preserve our national interest in state and leadership. This shows these 15 countries -- one came out in 2013; 14 have confessed over the past year. I wish you, in addition to all the tripping and pressure on the side, a lot of success, that this list extends from many more states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60110	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go, colleague Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60111	Dear President, Mr Dacic, the international agreements on the agenda today tell us that Serbia is leading a very responsible foreign policy and I must commend the work of the Foreign Ministry and you, Mr Dacic, who, of course, is working very actively with the entire government and President Vukic to improve Serbia's position in the world. There is an increasing number of countries that are withdrawing recognition so-called. The independent republic of Kosovo tells us about it. Here, the other day we have a 15th country that has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo and is an increasing number of countries that are withdrawing recognition and it is becoming the basic stumbling block of the so-called stumbling block. Kosovo's independent republic in the mission to be internationally recognised, led by war criminals Thaci and Haradinaj, because they realised that they were losing international positions that they had achieved at the moment our foreign ministry, headed by Vuk Jeremic, allowed Kosovo to pass without any diplomatic struggle. It's much harder for you today, Mr. Dacic, to correct these mistakes than to prevent them from confessing, but they were engaged in their personal careers. Today, they give themselves the right to even mention Kosovo and lead a policy favoured by Kosovo authorities, adding to foreign factors that they would keep them on the political scene of Serbia, despite people no longer wanting them. Their boycotting policy, not only the work of this assembly, which is a place for dialogue, but also boycotting the announced elections, as a form of democratic expression of the people's will, does not send a message of encouragement to our people in Kosovo who are awaiting very important elections in October, perhaps deciding on their survival and stay in Kosovo. Their Philosophy of boycotting the election would wipe out our people in Kosovo and hand over all aspects of democratic struggle to the war criminals of the terrorist KLA. These agreements, which we will ratify today at this session, are not only relevant in terms of diplomatic documents, but also in order to strengthen friendly relations with countries that have not recognised Kosovo, but also to open up the possibility of a much broader aspect of co-operation in the areas of economy, sport, education and culture, and we want this co-operation to be better in the future. Foreign policy has been seen as a very serious political activity of the current government in recent years, and you are Mr. Dacic, as a resolute minister and President Vukic drastically improved Serbia's reputation in the world, as noted by the prominent British magazine Financial Times, where Serbia is first in the world in the number of foreign direct investment. This is the result of joint work, as JS President Dragan Markovic Palma said in his address, your and President Vukic, as well as the conduct of a responsible policy and implementation of reforms that were not easy, but have paid off and Serbia today has political, fiscal and financial stability. Serbia is today a country in which the business environment is improved and in which, thanks to the government's strategic decisions, there will be an even greater economic growth and better living conditions for our citizens. Serbia today has a greater reputation, not only in the world, but it has become a leader in the region, and this reputation is obtained only by the respect you get when you protect your country's independence and sovereignty and that's exactly what you, Mr Dacic, point out in your work and thanks to such a way of leading foreign policy, your goal is that the number of recognition falls below 97 countries is not impossible. A unique Serbia, or parliamentary group of JS, has always supported the work of this government and Mr Vukic, so that in the day of voting they will vote for ratification of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60112	I thank my colleague Yevdzic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here's my colleague Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60113	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have heard so far that we have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement with four countries on the lifting of the visa obligation for holders of ordinary and diplomatic passports. These agreements are of paramount importance and we heard this in discussions of all my colleagues who spoke before me, because we are discussing a fact that confirms that Serbia is leading a quality foreign policy based on basic principles and established foreign policy objectives, which are EU accession, co-operation with China, Russia and the United States, but also with all other countries of the world, especially when it comes to the biggest national issue, KIM. It is important for every serious country that foreign policy has continuity. And foreign policy work in the last five years is really like that. Minister Dacic, you inherited a field where it wasn't easy to achieve. We had foreign ministers who had not done their jobs in the past, and at that point we have an infamous and painful declaration of an independent state of Kosovo by me, because I have the right to do so, Albanian terrorists. At that moment, we missed as a state to diplomatically respond and perhaps stop the process that seemed to be a consequence of euphoria, but here's the practice of showing the serious uninformedness of a large number of countries about what is actually happening in the southern Serbian province. That our foreign policy is balanced confirms the fact that today Serbia is both respected and accepted and desirable foreign policy partner. You have made it seem to me that a little bit and move the limits of these diplomatic relations, because you have in your charm, in a very pleasant way, explained what they have sinned in. When it comes to KiM, I allow myself the luxury of saying thank you first and foremost on behalf of the citizens of Cosmet, which is not few, which are 250 thousand and those who live in Cosmet. We are the victims of everything that someone has allowed themselves to unilaterally declare, to unilaterally kidnap us, to banish us from the centuries-old hearth, to leave us and impose on us the feeling of a stranger in his own country, in violation of all documents, above all UN Resolution 1244, the Kumanian Agreement. Not to mention that the Brussels Agreement and the Brussels documents absolutely don't respect a single moment. Such an approach to KIM, I fear opens doors and other separatist aspirations that the world can yet face, and that is one serious threat. I agree that the solution to the Kosovo issue must be mutually accepted and optimal, above all for Serbia and the Serb people who are a state-of-the-art people. Why am I stressing this? Because Albanians are a national minority, not a state-owned nation such as Serbs in BiH and Serbs in Croatia. When it comes to your activities and the recognition of not a small number, 15 countries of the world, I note that it is very important to say that these may be small countries, but that each of them has its own voice in the United Nations. Serbia, in this way, protects and benefits the reputation of former SFRY, as a non-classified country and heritage one policy of non-classifiedness as the basis of co-operation, primarily with Asian and African but also other countries of the world that appreciate sovereignty and freedom. I am sure that the Serbian public knows which 15 countries have withdrawn their recognition, however, one of the four states that is now foreseen by the visa waiver agreement is Suriname, which is heard by the senders and is constantly being respected that these are some small countries that Ivica Dacic knows only, we have heard of Suriname before. They had some famous football players, maybe it's not natural for me to say it as a woman, but they say that the famous Rud Bulid was right there. It's nice to remember that there is a Suriname, but it's even better that today we have reason to say thank you to Suriname for recognising Kosovo. Thank you for restoring the faith that there are people in the world who are willing to reconsider their decision and change it when they realize they've done someone wrong. Thank you on behalf of all those children who live on KIM, surrounded by wire, surrounded by instability, surrounded by fear, in fear of falling asleep, and afraid to wake up. We also have two countries that have never even recognised Kosovo and we also owe them a great debt of gratitude. But what is important and what I want to point out is that some opposition political options are trying to persistently reduce the importance of the process of withdrawing recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. Not because they have no awareness of how important this process is, I'm sure they know it is, but because it would reduce the impact of this government and the effects of its ministers and the overall state leadership. It is important that the number of states that withdraw recognition is increasing, it is important as you said, that the world's political scene is returned to the issue of Kosovo again not as finished, because it has been treated so far. In the end, I will make one historic parallel, and the occasion is that I was marked only 180 years ago by Serbian diplomacy, but also by the marking of 800 years of self-tefality of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which was provided by our first enlightener and priest, as well as by the diplomat St. Sava. The state thought of St. Save and his saying is – Serbia is east in the west and west in the east. She's still a guideline today when it comes to the politics of this government. Today, when we fight to preserve the state unity and the heart of our Serbia, KIM, we cannot help but remember St. Save. He then brought Serbia's independence of the church, as well as Serbia's international recognition as an independent state. The team before you, Minister Dacic, was given the most difficult task, that as someone who was born in Prizren, a diplomatic attempt to preserve and defend what is, I am sure and confidently aware, the greatest sanctity for both you and me, but also for the majority Serbian people. Aware of the historical responsibilities we bear today, to preserve what our ancestors left behind, which was a strong and internationally respectable Serbia. I am free to say that Mr. Minister you, as well as the entire leadership of the state, have indeed taken this historic role and responsibility to preserve Serbia and its southern province in its composition. If it's going to be easy, I'm sure it's not. Is it easy for you to listen to threats, no matter how many of them you understand, to accept them. Mr. Palma said a nice sentence, which is that Ramush Haradinaj was not arrested for stealing a bike, he was arrested because he was at the top of the human organ trade chain and that was with the Serbian human organs. When you come from that camp that you belong to and Bedzat Pacoli, there are threats to you, I must admit that I feel that fear that you do not clearly have. But I believe in justice. If not in each other, the one of God. I believe in the tenacity and consistency of Serbian leadership when it comes to the unequivocal goal of maintaining the integrity of the Serbian state. The Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs will certainly support the proposed legislative solutions, and I wish you once again, first of all, on behalf of the citizens of KIM, regardless of whether they live in the territory today or are in the migration, thanks to the effort you have made and I want a lot of success in further work, because I am sure that this number of countries that have recognised Kosovo will increase from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60114	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go, colleague Vujic Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60115	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers Dacic with associates, some called you Serbian de Gaulle, but JS President Dragan Markovic Palma and all JS MPs confirm that you are the best foreign minister of the Republic of Serbia ever. The JS parliamentary group will support all the agreements you have proposed and proposed by 156 MPs. A unique Serbia headed by our president always looks to the future, in good and friendly relations with other countries, to make Serbian citizens better, to live better and to propose as high-quality laws as possible in the National Assembly. All agreements on the agenda didn't come overnight. This is about countries, about 15 countries, and among them are the four countries that have withdrawn the recognition of only the declared countries of Kosovo. Among them, the state, or the Republic of Suriname, pulled the leg first and gave the withdrawal of the recognition note to an independent state of Kosovo, and we are grateful for that. The agreement today confirms a relationship with the Republic of Surina which will relate to visa waivers and to the holders of ordinary passports alongside diplomatic, official and official passports. We also have agreements with the Republic of Paraguay, the Dominican Republic, the Myanmar Union. With this in mind, when we confirm agreements, the friendly relations between the two countries and the interest of the Republic of Serbia, its citizens and these countries and citizens of these countries are strengthened, it makes it easier for the entry and exit of its citizens. The JS parliamentary group therefore supports these agreements and all proposals on the agenda. With good diplomatic relations between these countries and other countries, it certainly contributes to the day-to-day policy of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and I see nothing controversial and why some MPs have misunderstood our intention, because JS and SPS have absolutely given support to President Vukic and all the laws that we are making here, but certainly in foreign policy, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic is playing an absolutely key and crucial role and that his contribution is immeasurable when it comes to foreign policy. Serbia is now open almost all the doors and is seen absolutely differently in Serbia. It is one of the ways that Serbia is going, which is responsible, which is new, which is patriotic, where other countries that have looked at the Republic of Serbia earlier and reluctantly now look differently. Foreign investors are coming to the Republic of Serbia, along with Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the JS, who is threatening to bring foreign investors into Serbia. That's what President Alexander Vukitch is doing now. It's all very important and it's a picture of how other countries look at us. The highways are being built, the factories are being built, it's very important when a tourist, we also have in Serbia to show excellent tourist programs, mountains, spas, all this is very important how Serbia represents a picture in the world. That is why it is important and therefore we say that the opposition must not work outside Serbia's interest. Together, we must fight for Serbia to respect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, both internal affairs and diplomatic relations, to respect Resolution 1244, which began to break many years ago. Absolutely, these countries showed, which is very important, in addition to withdrawing Kosovo's recognition, were against the entry of an independent Kosovo state into Interpol. That is why we must and expect the foreign minister to give us a report in the coming period that even more countries have withdrawn recognition of the independent state of Kosovo, because this is a burning issue for Serbia today. Certainly, the JS parliamentary group will support the agreements in the voting day and support everything the Foreign Ministry is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60116	Thank you, colleague Vujic Obradovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60117	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already heard that the SPS parliamentary group will support all four proposed visa waiver agreements for all four states. I confirm that again. I will start from your quote in the context of these agreements, which says – in interstate relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements, which abolish visas, is considered a significant step towards creating more favourable conditions for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of mutual interest and importance. The agreements we are discussing today confirm that Serbia is leading an external policy based on basic principles and established foreign-political objectives, which are EU accession, co-operation with China, Russia, the United States and all other countries of the world, especially when it comes to KIM. It shows Serbia's openness to the world and the expansion of friendship with as many countries in the world as possible. Such a policy leads to the goal, which is to improve Serbia's international, foreign and political position to protect sovereignty and of course protect national and national interests. The agreements we are talking about today also represent a continuation of the start-up process of visa liberalisation for those countries outside the EU that have a concrete interest in the Republic of Serbia and the expansion of the circle of those countries. So, once again, with the support of the proposed agreements for all four countries, this is an opportunity for the Assembly today to strongly support Serbia's international activities. A clear, serious, responsible policy of the President of the Republic and of the Government in international activities and the protection of national and state interests, firm defence and excellent successful implementation of you ministers, who are in charge of implementing it, deserve full recognition and full support. There were examples here, there's plenty of them, I'll look back at only one. This is particularly true in the case of Kosovo and Metohija where Serbia is facing the biggest challenges, where it does so in conditions where double arches are applied, when Western sponsors of Kosovo's independence have pressures and arguments of force, you are Mr. Ministers, by bypassing every piece of the globe, explaining the essence of things to the states, answering the force of arguments and results are visible and they best say what I'm talking about. Today Serbia is a respected and desirable partner of the world's foreign-political and factor. Today, even with the sponsors of Kosovo's independence, KIM has not ended the issue. Today, support is increasing Serbia and its policy to compromise a solution through dialogue with the previous suspension of taxis, and double arches are seen there. Today, more and more countries in the world are reviewing or withdrawing the recognition of so-called. The countries of Kosovo and there are double arches, you can see even one arrogance without cover, so they say – it bothers Serbia, these are small countries, overlooked that each country has one vote, however small or large, and it is very important for us to fight for the new 15 votes. Of course, if we were to talk about the number of inhabitants, so there are on the other side Russia, China, Brazil, India, so that's half the world, only those four countries that haven't recognised KIM. So, they don't have any cover in it. What's also unacceptable is that they're trying to even things out, balance the illegal introduction of a taxi from the so-called. The countries of Kosovo, completely illegal with Serbia's legitimate right to fight for their interests by diplomatic, peaceful means, and here they resent us most. Why? Because every day we get more and more success on that plan, and he's already in the way. They don't mind that they lobby for Kosovo. They don't mind lobbying to become a Kosovo member of Interpol, although it explicitly says that Interpol can only become a country that is a member of the UN and that I don't list any further. I think you're successfully dealing with these problems, you're successfully struggling, and that's where the results are very present. So far, 15 states have withdrawn recognition. Someone noticed in public you're half a basket, so I'm calling you, by the end of the year give that basket to then move on to this half. I wouldn't take any more time. On one case alone, I wanted to say the success of carrying out international policy, the activity on the international agenda, which is loved by this country and by the president and by the government and, of course, by you foreign ministers, and I will repeat, we will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60118	Thank you. A colleague of Petronievich's. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60119	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers and Associates of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about agreements. There are four agreements ahead of us and this proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports, but visas are abolished in the Union of Miyamar, such as the Republic of Suriname and the Dominican Republic. An extremely important day for the Republic of Serbia is October 6th. Why? Because the elections are in Kosovo. I ask Serbs, as my dear Mr. Vladimir Velimirovic said, when the Serbs worship, they will also agree and multiply, so I ask them to agree to go to elections, that the Serb List, represented by our Mr. Rakic, will be their list, because it is an extension of the policy of our President Aleksandr Vukic and all state institutions. It's the only way they can survive in Kosovo and that's the only way they can live their lives. What's going on out there today is life. The opposition that exists there today needs to lie down on the ore, be under one hat, finish this Serbian-led vote with Goran Ristic and go into normal life. Never, no one will admit so-called. Independent Kosovo. Thanks to our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and your dedication cannot be ignored. Today, the Republic of Serbia has 120 countries and some countries that have recognised so-called. Independent Kosovo, withdrawal from 15 countries. Bravo for that, that's how it works, all the congratulations to our president, who said that while he's alive he won't recognise Kosovo, I know that you won't, neither of us will admit so-called. An independent Kosovo, because there is no such thing. Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, Kosovo is our right, left hand. He had two APs, one KIM, another AP Vojvodina. So Serbs unite and vote for the Serbian list, I guess you understand why. As far as these agreements are concerned, it's great that we're doing these agreements today because we're making friends. We make friends from day to day. Bilateral policy is an extremely powerful factor, foreign policy is usually there to bring people together. Look what our president and you today, sir, of course, with Hungary, with Germany, with Russia, with China, with Azerbaijan, with all the countries in the world, we make friends, that's the point of foreign policy, that's the point of the policy led by our President Alexander Vukic. What should we say about these countries? It should be said that they are unrecognizable by the so-called "unrecognizable." Independent Kosovo, our friends are physically far away, but we are here, Kosovo is the heart of our spirituality and I never, as long as I live, as my president will not admit it. Independent Kosovo, what is it? There's no such thing. As far as these agreements are concerned, it is very important that we go, first of all with tourism, for Paraguay 90 days without a visa, so whether or not the country or the country, 90 days will be without a visa regime, it is also valid for the former Burma, or Myanmar Union, but also for Suriname, 60 days for the Dominican Republic. Speaking of the Dominican Republic, she admitted so-called independent Kosovo, but it's good that when it was, or when it was supposed to be, Kosovo so-called. Independently entering Interpol, they voted against it, which just means that we've lobbyed well and that's the kind of policy that needs to be continued. I must once again say that, unfortunately, the EU decided on 16 February 2008, to launch the so-called ". The EU rule of law mission to KIM EULEX Kosovo, and on 17 February 2008, the authorities of the interim self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, with political and organisational support from the EU and the United States, made a unilateral decision on the declaration of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija from Serbia. Something like that will never happen, it's good work, I'm sure for a very short period of time we'll have confessions, i.e. the withdrawal of confessions so-called. An independent Kosovo since 15 countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60120	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Comrade Tomic, you're in the system. Did you want to do it in order or not? (Alexandra Tomic: Yes. ) Before you is a colleague of Mirjana Dragaš. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60121	Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Today, as part of the work of the Serbian Parliament, we have one extraordinary opportunity to devote the entire session and the time we have to foreign policy and legislation on the validation of an agreement with a number of countries, meaning that Suriname Myanmar, the Dominican Republic and Paraguay, are talking about the abolition of visas for, above all, the holders of diplomatic passports, official, special, ordinary, or common passports for ordinary citizens. It is an opportunity to point out how important the country's foreign policy is for each country, of course and for our own, it is important that we develop good co-operation with all countries that are still closer to us, because this means mutual understanding, respect, exchange of goods, exchange of services, development of tourism and the development of friendship. Says the old saying - you're worth as much to people as you have friends. This can also apply to countries to earn as many friends as they have. That is why this effort by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, particularly Mr. Ivica Dacic as the man at the head of this ministry, is precisely one of the most important areas of work of today's government and the efforts of the Serbian state to become significant in international relations and in co-operation with other countries. Our diplomacy has a long tradition, since the time of the struggle to create a modern free Serbia of 1804. And then it has developed since Karadjordje, I am only talking about modern Serbia, diplomacy and co-operation with other countries. Over time, we have seen, depending on the development of international relations with the state of war or peace, that co-operation with countries has changed, that it can take different forms and different contents. That is, therefore, a dynamic process, as the minister himself said, but each country aims to protect its interests to the greatest extent possible, its rights and to protect the right of its people to live in freedom and peace. For each country's stability, the most important thing is that it is stable in its internal policy, that its economy be strong, its employment high, its good ways and its communication. This government is in this direction and directs all its forces in the previous period, it represents a solid, stable policy headed by the president of the state, with the Prime Minister, the entire government and ministers, and in particular, when we talk today about these laws, the foreign minister. It is certainly a special resort that has become visible thanks to this activity and has achieved significant successes that are being spoken of more and more. From all of this, it can be concluded that in fact Mr. Ivica Dacic and his associates are one of the most consistent, most persistent and most dedicated ministers in this government and thus is one of the stable foundations and associates and Mr. Alexander Vukic himself, as president of the state. The general tendency to develop good relations with other countries is the general ultimate goal in all countries friendly to develop and improve this co-operation that already exists with the countries of the Unclassified bloc and to return to those good roads across the globe when we are as the state of Yugoslavia, and then as Serbia we have developed and relations with both small and major countries and their economies because each state is an individual and their voice should respect both their autonomy and their autonomy. Of course, the development of diplomacy must also go towards developing co-operation with those countries that respect us less. The specific task of diplomacy is, therefore, to explain the truth about Serbia in this case, to explain and bring the truth closer to our goals, and in this case, especially the truth about Kosovo and Metohija. It's lobbying. Some of the great forces created by the so-called so-called. "independent Kosovo" has been lobbying around the world for the Serbian province for over 20 years, with the goal of supporting it as an independent state only on the basis of its unanimous declaration, regardless of the fact that there is a UN Resolution 1244, which is the only valid signed international document that clearly determines the position of both Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija and international law and all entities in this. Serbia did not even lead a policy of protection of its interests at the time, and now we have a president, we have a government that knows and clearly tells what the interests of Serbia, diplomacy and the minister who is active, responsible and is fighting hard for Serbia's national interests. The result is that 15 countries have withdrawn recognition, that four laws that deepen this and expand co-operation with countries with which we have not developed this cooperation and closeness so far are before us. Cancelling visas isn't a means of undoing recognition, and I think we can all agree on that. It is a gesture of goodwill and a desire for respect and development of friendship and co-operation. Who has the right to lobby, we finally have to ask a question? Those who violate international law or those who protect it protect international order and protect their country? Finally, our strategic development goal is certainly to co-operate with the EU and join this community, our goal is to develop, modernise the country, the European laws that apply here, and not to do one goal -- to join the EU, but to develop the interests of Serbia and its modernisation. If the focus of every policy were to be shifted to the East, we can see that it's a legitimate international policy now, and that's why I'd say it's not sitting on two chairs. International interests are variable and what if in advance some great world power withdraws recognition of Kosovo and Metohija? That is why in our policy and in our protection of our interests we must be the most consistent. In that sense, I think we can, in general, talk about supporting this policy, the desire to improve it, support the work of this government, the president of the state and the foreign minister. Once again, the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of these laws, and with a desire for them to be more and more in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60122	Thank you, colleague Dragash. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60123	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's agenda when you look at the most talks about confirming the agreement for four countries when it comes to the holders of their diplomatic and official passports, simple desire and will and future co-operation and deepening relations with these countries, such as Suriname, Myanmar, Dominican Republic and Paraguay, in that part that their diplomats will no longer have the obligation to have our visa. When you look at a agenda like this, you'll think it's a technical matter that the Foreign Ministry needs to do, that the Assembly here confirms. However, today's agenda, as we have seen from my colleagues' discussions, represents a serious, serious policy on both the foreign and internal policies of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that in 2012 when the SNS headed by Mr. Vukic and the SPS took responsibility for the country's leadership was in a very difficult position and when we talk about the economic policy and political relations that seem to be, when we are just talking about talks and negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina came to an end. At that point, a solution had to be found primarily at the political level in order to cancel in general the policy-making process of the Republic of Serbia with both the EU and other countries that had simply until then had the habit of delivering their tasks to Serbia as Serbia should work. You remember the best situation when we had visits both Mrs Merkel and Mr Putin, when it was said that they were received by Mr Tadic, when they received approximately the orders that the Republic of Serbia should carry out and especially when it comes to Kosovo that we should recognise so-called. "independent Kosovo", i.e. simply favoring the secession of the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What was then to come to the citizens of Serbia, to say exactly what ideas both the EU and America are when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to our people living there, Serbs, and what is the situation with Serbia's budget, or the economic situation that was at the moment disastrous. So, it was meant to go to Serbian citizens and say that we do not have the opportunity to pay more salaries or pensions within two weeks, and that we are hanging over this great political pressure to recognise "independent Kosovo". At that point, the negotiations stopped and there you, as then prime minister of government, were really holding one tension when it came to negotiations at all. But at that point, there was also great pressure for Serbia to recognise an independent Kosovo chair in the UN, which would essentially give me the opportunity for Kosovo to truly achieve a fictitious part of its independence, i.e. to become so-called. State in full capacity. It was difficult at that time to make a decision that should have implicated bad consequences for the state of Serbia, but the pressures and threats both to you and to Mr. Vukic at that time, where we all forget about it, were very large. When they said on a personal plan that both parties should disappear politically and as leaders, you no longer have your future, when it comes to politics in Serbia at all. Of course, the other party that experienced the shift of power by Serbian citizens, such as Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and the other team, who today are trying to return through Boška Obradovic, through their different mentors here to power, said it would take six months, that they would return to power after six months, and they had already agreed on the recognition of Kosovo, but only said that we would get through these elections and return to our full capacity, to help us do so and to continue the path we were going to. Of course, this has not happened, because the SNS, headed by Mr. Vukic, together with the SPS, has indeed shown that it is leading one responsible policy, especially when it comes to Belgrade's policy regarding Pristina and when it comes to talking about KIM, about people living in KIM and what you're saying in Belgrade, you have to say that in Brussels, too, you have to speak in Washington, but also in Moscow. So that's the hardest road you've been going since 2012. In parallel with this, there had to be some solution in the form of the Brussels Agreement, which you will essentially show in the future that you are really behind the fact that you are on the European path, but parallel to that, that you will never give up any historical co-operation with the Russian Federation. It is one of the most difficult political ways for Serbia to go, but it has proved after these seven years that despite these pressures, it is easy to go that way, because in the meantime it was necessary to implement economic reforms, fiscal consolidation, to lead to a single sustainable budget from which you will be able to spend as much as you earn, so much as to spend and pay both wages and pensions, but also to create new jobs. Over 200 factories Mr. Vukic has opened up so far and this shows the essential result of good, responsible and external and internal policies. It is not easy to go to international organisations and stick to serious and responsible policies, to say that you will not give up the European path either, but that you will not give up co-operation with those who may not like it, when it comes to the EU. After all, when you now look at international relations between America, England, EU members, Russia, China, you now see that much has changed. We have an example, for example, as a delegation of the Council of Europe that we participated in last session, that the votes of the Russian Federation of 49 members of the Council of Europe have been suspended for the last two years, and that they have been returned to the last meeting and that in that agreement all 49 members of the Council of Europe, who have much to say against the Russian Federation, have voted to return these mandates to Russian MPs, show simply that many things are changing in their international relations. Now, for the first time in the international scene, you have an attempt to suspend the votes of the parliamentarians by one of the prime ministers of England, who is a cradle of democracy, you have such a debate that was not imagined seven years ago. Therefore, in all these changes, Serbia simply adheres to its political principles to defend its Serbian national interests, defends the interests of Serbs in KIM, which is very important, and shows that it does not deviate from that policy, shows that what it says does. What is most important today is that we have the opportunity to say that the results of such a responsible policy, as well as those of all economic reforms, are published yesterday in this English magazine Financial Times, that Serbia has a 12-fold increase in foreign direct investment from countries in the region and from EU members based on how many residents it has, what capacity it has. It shows essentially that we are really one of the countries that everyone wants to talk to today. That is why we have reason to say today that this set of laws in fact shows recognition and those countries that may not have been able to withdraw recognition of Kosovo, but have started to do so and show that the policy that existed in 2012, when it came to Serbia and the relationship to Kosovo and the Metohija, has simply turned completely, i.e. transformed. This shows that the elections we have in Kosovo on 6 October, where the Serb list will take part, simply shows the presence of Belgrade, the presence of the Republic of Serbia in KIM, the presence of Serbs who have the right to speak their mind and show that they defend their interests where they live, and that they are also on KIM itself. These laws today are in fact one invitation for all Serbs in Kosovo to go to the polls. I will remind you that we have 60,000 Serbs displaced in Serbia, meaning, in cities such as Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljeno, that this is an invitation that all these Serbs living in both central Serbia and northern Serbia should go to elections that day, support their country that is truly leading this responsible foreign and internal policy, come and support those Serbs who wake up every day and stand up with their neighbours and worry about what that future policy will look like to Serbs in Kosovo, so that everyone will support them one day when they come and use their right to vote. Today's session should, in fact, be an invitation to all of this, and I ask you, as Minister, to speak more about this and to the public as we approach that date and to ask you more about how much it cost the Republic of Serbia and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, who led a completely irresponsible policy and how much these results of their policy have essentially caused us a big problem today, in the fact that we are truly responsible for all international agreements relating to Serbia, and they are related to the Serbs at KIM. We will vote safely as MPs in the day of voting to support all these legislative proposals, but we think we should also support our Serbs and the Serb list, to come out in full capacity to vote Serbian citizens for the Serbian list in the next October 6th 2019 elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60124	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60125	Honored chairman Milicevic, the first Vice-President Dacic with his associates, affirming four agreements in Serbia's foreign policy area are merely a confirmation of the continuity of diplomatic activities that Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been leading in the last five years, which is a struggle to preserve our sovereignty and territorial integrity for the preservation of KIM, which they want to take from us, and we need to keep quiet about all this. First of all, I want to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the responsible, committed, uncompromising diplomatic work on achieving our state foreign policy priorities. Also, I want to thank all the countries that have withdrawn the recognition of the so-called self-proclaimed so-called. The states of Kosovo, because they recognized that in the 21st century the state was not created by violently hijacking territories. You have succeeded, Mr. Minister, in bringing the number of states that have withdrawn recognition to number 15, and the number of countries that recognise Kosovo has fallen below 100. It should also be added by countries that will not vote and do not vote for Pristina's views. Let me repeat in the time that I have left and some of the important things that you've put forward by explaining the bill's proposals, which is that we're running a policy of openness, a visa-free regime for as many countries as possible, in 71 countries we travel without visas, and citizens from 92 countries can travel to us. The Serbian passport is now in 28th place. You have also stated that there is no dilemma that up to six months before EU entry we should coordinate our visa regime with the EU. It is also stated how many visas have been issued - China, Egypt, India, Lebanon. Cancellation of visas means friendship with individual countries. Suriname is the first country to withdraw recognition, and that's why we want to thank her specifically. What you have stated is that from 2008 to 2012, 87 countries have recognised the so-called The state of Kosovo, and since 2014, only seven, and 15 have withdrawn recognition. What I'm saying is, I've had the chance to be a member of a parliamentary delegation and travel to the United States for a visit to Congress. We have to learn something from them, whether we love them or not, but they have one saying -- that their policy ends where the water begins. That's what we need to learn from them. We here in parliament can conflict our opinions, the opposition should be constructive, to contribute to better laws, but beyond the borders of our country we must be united in attitudes. I can, the Honorable First Vice President, challenge you, but I can't argue that you contributed to our country's reputation, that you contributed to the reputation of the foreign policy plan, and I'm sure there's absolutely nothing I can do to you. Neither can those thunderbolts, as you said, whether they came from Slovenia or Croatia, and I am sure that you will continue to win the final victory in all your efforts to achieve the goals you have outlined and the number of countries you have said will fall below 97. In the end, I repeat that as a parliamentary group, we will support all proposed legislative solutions that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60126	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60127	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I hope that with a little more interest you will listen to us from the opposition than you have paid attention to your colleagues from the ruling coalition. We listened with the attention of your speech and you spoke about how important it is that some countries withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence. It is evident that again all the ways of Serbian politics, one way or another, lead to Kosovo and Metohija. You, like other representatives of state authorities, should use that constitutional and legal name, therefore, Kosovo and Metohija, not Kosovo. Kosovo is for those who think it is an independent state, and for us, I assume that you too belong to that circle of people who will never recognise Kosovo's independence in one way or another, must insist on that expression. It was created, unfortunately, by some image in the Serbian public that a huge number of states and most of the countries in the world have recognised Kosovo's independence. That is not true when you look at the number of people, not by the strength of the economy, and for us Kosovo is something that we will not give up anything. You have repeated several times, and other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that these states that withdraw recognition strengthen our negotiating position. What worries me is that recently, several times, it has been said that Serbia cannot recognise Kosovo's independence from getting anything, because it turns out that we are practically ready as a state for a trade, but that the price they offer us at this point is not adequate. That price and what they're offering us is nothing. You were talking about the Brussels Agreement. You said the withdrawal of these taxis was a condition for the negotiations to continue. I have a few questions for you, Mr. Dacic. The first question is: why is the fulfillment of the Brussels Agreement, in the first place, of the Community of Serb municipalities, why is it not one of the conditions for the continuation of negotiations? If I'm not mistaken, six years ago the Brussels Treaty was signed. One obligation was to fulfill the other side. They didn't fulfill that obligation and not only that, but even we don't make it a condition anymore. If we don't, how can we expect anyone else to talk about it and how can we expect, which is more important, that anyone else expects anything in our interest to be fulfilled in the future? Second question. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, I request the exact date, on 27 November last year, told Serbian citizens that she had sent a formal request to the CEFTA Secretariat for consultations within the Joint Committee. He says they have 90 days to resolve this through consultations and that after the deadline for Serbia to refer to the CEFTA arbitration court a formal request, because, he says, international agreements must be respected, the CEFTA agreement must be respected, and as we can see from that 27 November, not that it has passed 90 days, but it has been uncomparably more, 300 days have passed, but no one mentions it anymore. My question in particular, Mr Dacic, is it in line with what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic promised the citizens, did he ever submit that request to the CEFTA arbitration court or not? Is that a statement at that time intended only for the domestic public, to distract citizens of Serbia, or have you really submitted a formal request? If so, my question – when you submitted it and at what stage is this procedure, was anything done under this procedure? The worst, international institutions, however, do not respect Serbia's demands. They don't respect our warrants. Serbia's red warrants are not handled, not once, but who knows how many times. Perhaps you've counted how many times someone who's been arrested by an arrest warrant from Serbia has been released, because they estimate that our warrants are not worth it, that they don't meet the conditions, that we don't have a good enough reputation, and they simply reject it. Another question is, how do you negotiate with those who have so far accepted nothing? One of the previous speakers was saying that you had a NATO pact guarantee that representatives of Pristina authorities with long pipes, or their armed forces, security forces, whatever you call them, would not enter the territory of the northern four municipalities. Where are those guarantees? It turns out that guarantees when it comes to guarantees given to us are not worth it. If, until now, nothing that's been signed has been worth it, what kind of agreement can we talk about in the future when it's perfectly clear and the best agreement to sign, whatever they promise you, whatever they sign, who's going to implement it and who's going to make them do it when the International so-called. Community, and in fact their partners from the West, and our enemies just don't ask for it from their side. And finally, you saw I welcome the signing of this free trade agreement with the Euro-Asian Union, but you saw how harsh the Western reaction was. You say, it's Serbia's interest. I agree. Well, of course Serbia's interest is free trade with the countries of the Euro-Asian Union, but if that's an interest, what are we running towards the European Union? The European Union advocates freedom of trade, but by buying their products freely in Serbia, and when the freedom of trade is in making and exporting something, then they say it can't. Then he gets the state of pucks, they say take care of the European future. And you as an experienced politician can certainly recognize it well. Serbia has no European future. You should have the courage to tell the citizens. This is openly ordered by the EU's most influential countries. Britain as the founder of the EU is abandoning it. A powerful country cannot achieve its interests in the best way. How will we who do not give God and enter the EU in 30 or 50 years, if there is, what impact will we have on EU policy? Absolutely none.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60128	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Dear Members of the People, we will now comply with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. As a matter of fact, we'll be back to work at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60129	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60130	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is an extremely important topic on the agenda, confirming the visa waiver agreement with several countries of which, I must stress, most have not recognised the false state of Kosovo. This certainly represents an improvement in Serbia's co-operation with these countries, strengthening bilateral relations and contributing to strengthening Serbia's international reputation and parliamentary group, according to this, the SNS will support these agreements. This session, unfortunately, runs again without the presence of one part of the opposition in the so-called boycott, which shows in the best way that they are not interested in Serbia's international position, in bilateral relations with other countries, or in the position of Serbia when it comes to KIM, or in how much state has withdrawn recognition of the false state of Kosovo, or any other topic of interest for Serbian citizens. And, of course, they don't care, because in their time, therefore, from the moment of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence until 2012, 87 countries have recognised Kosovo, and as of 2014, 15 countries have withdrawn or suspended the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. It's a concrete piece of information, and that's if you want a concrete result, primarily thanks to Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, so I'm thinking of the entire government here so that someone doesn't mind feeling offended. Now, imagine that during their government, at least a fraction of the results they have achieved in this sense, that at least one state convinces them to withdraw recognition of Kosovo or not to recognise the false state of Kosovo, imagine how much easier the situation would be for us, imagine how much easier it would make our position easier, but they were not interested in it then, so they were neither trying nor trying anything under God's care. So they did nothing to prevent a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, to prevent Montenegro's secession if you want or anything else when it comes to Serbian national interests. But I don't want to talk about them anymore, some of them were still in the Assembly here today despite their boycott, but they weren't in the O.R. They held some kind of press conferences, gave all kinds of nonsense and untruth and that of Zoran Zivkovic and Marinika Tepic. You know, it's the easiest thing for them, they don't want to go into the O.R., so we can stand up here to face arguments, it's easier for them to schedule a press conference here in the lobby, and they're going crazy, both Zivkovic and Marinika Tepic. That's what Zivkovic used to do, and his role is to come to the press conference, he insults us so brutally, we've Googled it, and Marinika Tepic probably doesn't know which party he's in this week, because so many parties have changed it so hard to explain which party he's in this week. But I'm asking you to have an understanding of them, too, they're under orders. Their boss, Dragan Gilas, orders them what any day, which one of them should do, and they must carry out the task they received from their boss, which these days shows incredible anxiety, which is due to certain investigations, certain malversions, financial malfeasances involving him. As these investigations progress, Gilas will also become more nervous and nervous, all because of the fact that he can't answer a very simple question, which is how he managed to get from 74 000 euros reported, which he allegedly earned in the Czech Republic, that he managed to reach 25m euros in personal property according to official indicators from 74 000 euros. It's official data. How exactly did his companies, at the time of his government or the government of the party he was in, make a profit measured in hundreds of millions of euros? So these are very simple questions that he cannot provide an answer to. Now, when these questions are raised, when the authorities start doing their job and when investigations start in that direction, and then someone gets arrested, someone gets arrested for an informative conversation, then the hysteria and campaign starts with the most monstrous accusations and attacks both against Alexander Vukic and his family members and Nebojsa Stefanovic and all the others from SNS. This is all over allegedly unfree media, oppressed media, censored media, and "N12", and "New", and various local televisions, and "Blic", and "Today", "Time", "NIN", "Sunnitnik" will probably miss someone, and then they'll resent me, so the media are asphyxiated that every day we only have attacks, accusations and imaginary affairs against all of the SNS, against the Serbian government, against Alexander Vukic. Then, when they don't get past the launch of imaginary affairs, or the launch of false inventions, then they declare a boycott of choice, then it's their solution. It doesn't matter what they can't explain to anyone alive how regular elections can be boycotted, so regular local, rural and parliamentary elections, the elections that the law prescribes must be held within a certain time limit. I don't think there's a recorded case in the world that someone boycotted the local elections. On the side that they have absolutely no argument in this regard, aside from having no single argument. So, first they come out with some kind of requirements, with some kind of conditions, then we say -- here we are, ready to accept all of these terms in accordance with the law, we are all ready to accept. Then that doesn't work either, then change and conditions, change of demands, change everything, all in such order until this last request, which is to make some kind of transitional government, some kind of technical government that they will naturally enter. Alexander Vukic was very clear and loud on this issue, I would not, at this time, repeat what kind of message was to them in this regard. So it is clear here that because they want only power without a choice, that they are only interested in it and that they are aware that the citizens of Serbia absolutely do not support it, and that is why they declared the boycott as an alibi, a pre-prepared alibi for the debacle waiting for them in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60131	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60132	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the reminders, we are discussing points of the agenda where agreements on the abolition of official and diplomatic visas are signed and all these stories are interpreted by Serbian radicals as stories which are aimed at a pre-election campaign or a warm-up for an election campaign. What characterizes politics, primarily foreign policy, led by Serbia, is that it can be freely said confusing to the general public for the simple reason that foreign policy should be based on some basic universal principles, principles of equality, principles of non-mixing in the internal affairs of other countries and other generally adopted standards that every country must respect when it implements its foreign policy. It's all mixed up with us. It's not yesterday, and it can't just be respected by the current, current government, it's from earlier. We in foreign policy have confusion. On the one hand, for 2,000 years, we have continued to advocate that Serbia's ultimate goal is to join the EU, and on the other hand we have something that is happening by the EU, the same in continuity, that is that the EU is most directly involved in the internal affairs of the Republic of Serbia, and then we have these variations in certain times when Serbia advocates stronger ties with the Russian Federation, and then Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin is put on the pylon, and then suddenly we have this extreme to bring Makron into Serbia, which should replace Vladimir Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin. A simple man cannot cope with what is continuity, what is a stable policy of Serbia? We have, in recent days, the strongest is that the EU is sending us people who are no longer MPs. Imagine how ironic that is. You send two men who are no longer Members of the European Parliament. Their feature is that they managed to persuade both the opposition and the authorities to go to the elections in Macedonia. What's the result of all this? General failure, post chaos in northern Macedonia, and we welcome with God to ask what meaning and respect it is. How far are we going, people? Yeah, and it's possible? When did this start? The moment they developed emotions among some of the most responsible in this Serbia, these emotions ranged from Angela Merkel to Macron. First, Merkel was an icon in which we swore, which protected Serbia's interests and Germany's will not allow anyone to harm or harm Serbia in any way, and then the general disappointment occurred when even the ambassador of Germany repeatedly reiterated that the only condition for further negotiations was that Serbia recognises independent Kosovo and the least problem is that we Serbian radicals warned in time not to lead foreign policy at all, it was not worth leading a country's policy at all, but the disappointment was so much that it immediately resorted to France, i.e. Makron, who would protect Serbia's interests. He comes to Serbia, told Serbian officials, the public that there is no EU enlargement, and that good neighbourly relations must be established, he says, in Kosovo. The real question is whether we're even a normal people when we put up with it. Our official policy teams always interpret what they said, the McCrone as well as Angela Merkel, as Mogerini said. What kind of policy is that to interpret? Well, I guess we all understand that the condition of all conditions of negotiations, further negotiations, or Serbia, is eventually in the EU, to recognise KIM. None of you gentlemen, until today's day has come out, or even the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said – no matter what we care, they can say whatever they want, it is the relevant Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 is an act adopted by the UN Security Council, without Russia's consent, without the consent of China and other countries, no recognition stories, no KIM entry talks, or Kosovo into the UN. Why doesn't anyone say so? Because such a policy continues to run, remember just a few years ago how excited it was, the euphoria with Hillary Clinton, it even went to give her direct support, won the Trump, we didn't say we were radical – we were psychic, we were the ones who knew, not but we clearly cared about not winning Hillary Clinton because it was Serbia's rapid fall, or Serbia's collapse, but we weren't even boasting that we were smart, that it was the result of some of our great minds as some of us were saying – we were smart, so we knew that it was going to beat Hillary Clinton. You can't run that kind of politics, and now it's hard for you when Trump sends his authorised representative, so of course, you gave them the money for the Hillary Clinton campaign, so what's weird about it? On the other hand, wide open doors, from the earlier open door of the Russian Federation, the door opened by the People's Republic of China is a great opportunity. We also have an unbalanced policy when it comes to states in the environment of Serbia that have recognised Kosovo as independent. We talk to them like nothing happened. Montenegro's leadership, when it comes to the instructions of the note, Serbia's leadership is running to justice, to wash that they are not guilty, that they are not the cause, that Serbia didn't mean anything by Montenegro. Serbs in Montenegro are reduced to a minimum to human and civil rights, Serbia's official policy is silent, will not spoil relations. Montenegro's official policy has recognised Kosovo, so if nothing else, I guess we should at least change those political relations a little, if anything, I guess because of the endangered Serbian Corps should have the knowledge that they can't behave like that. When, gentlemen, did you ask a question at any international event or forum, the issue of the Republika Srpska Krajina? When did you ask the question of implementing Resolution 1244? Have you given an answer that no one accepts, they would not agree to implement Resolution 1244 concerning the return of a number of soldiers and police to the KIM territory. What does such an answer serve? It should be potential, it should have an initiative. Of course, we have no objection to abolishing visa regimes with countries that have withdrawn Kosovo's recognition, according to such countries, states should have a special relationship but should lead a stable policy, a rational foreign policy and insist on the SRS. When we speak to you, we are not saying that we would get cheap political points, but that Serbia would stabilize and that Serbia would turn simply to the Russian Federation and to the alliance with friendly countries, and that you would give up more than that eutopia called the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60133	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60134	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Dacic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, today, as we hear all day, we have agreements on the agenda, I will not read and repeat them, but with Paraguay, the Myanmar Union, Suriname and the Dominican Republic, and somewhere less or greater, all these agreements are similar. What is the point, that is, of what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia's drive to improve friendly relations and better and easier co-operation between Serbia and those countries, in which it will now help confirm these agreements. In doing so, I am primarily referring to provisions relating to the holders of diplomatic official and official passports, and the holders of these passports have been sent to perform the post of members of diplomatic and consular offices or to be officials of international organisations. So what's good is they won't need an initial visa for the first entry into one of those countries. I would particularly stress that Suriname has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence without Paraguay and Myanmar recognising Kosovo's independence. So far, 15 countries have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo, primarily thanks to the great efforts of President Aleksandar Vukic, thanks to his endurance and thanks to his endurance and his desire to fight for Serbia, but also to the excellent foreign-political relations he has established along with ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. President Aleksandar Vukic and our negotiating team will no doubt continue to seek compromise between Belgrade and Pristina, but I am also quite certain that I will not allow any blackmail in political or diplomatic communication. What is most important to us is the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In this sense, the upcoming elections in Kosovo and Metohija, where the Serb list should participate in order to fight for the interests of Serbs, are very important. The Serb list, we are all aware, will have powerful opponents, will have opponents in both the media and the Albanian media, unfortunately in one part of the Serbian media that will force just those working against the interests of the Serb people in our southern province. A campaign to discredit the Serb list will be conducted and is already under way to achieve the ultimate goal, which is, of course, destabilising the situation of Serbs in Kosovo and breaking their ties with Belgrade. But Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija know best that Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for them and how much he struggles to represent their interests at every possible moment in the best possible way. That is why he gave support to the Serbian list. That is why he also gave support to the Serbian list to be the link between Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and Belgrade and to fight for Serbian interests. The results that the Serb list has achieved so far best tell how well people are aware of the unreserved support of Aleksandar Vukic to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I just want to take the opportunity to invite Serbs to the elections and to support the Serbian list because it is the only way they will actually give support to the future of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and with their colleagues and colleagues from the PG Serbian Progressive Party, I will, of course, support these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60135	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Now the word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, Mr. Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60136	Today, we have been able to see on one side the support of the MPs of the ruling majority of the government of Serbia in the part when it comes to fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, and more specifically for withdrawing and lobbying the withdrawal of those states that have recognised independent Kosovo. On the other hand, you speak, the same MPs of the ruling majority speak of a Serb coming out to the elections of the so-called "Serbs". The "states of Kosovo" under the laws of Pristina, under the same Brussels agreements that made Pristina one point unfulfilled, you are talking about the path to the EU, which openly says you cannot join the EU until you sign a legally binding agreement which, of course, says that we must accept that so-called agreement. "State of Kosovo" shall be a member of the UN and then, of course, by automation, a member of Interpol, UNESCO, and all other organisations, and then the question is, in fact, what is the policy of law towards the southern Serbian province of the Republic of Serbia? I will remind you if you read "Today", for example the daily "Today", your coalition partner Vuk Draskovic, who has two MPs in your ruling majority, said, "You cannot go to Brussels via Moscow" and in the text criticising the Euro-Asian Economic Union, i.e. Serbia's accession and accession to this Union. So are you for that policy or not? Do you have an agreement between yourselves which is the policy that you represent? I would remind you that when you received a pack from EU representatives, the thought of entering the Euro-Asian Economic Union, then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic said: "When Serbia becomes an EU member, I will break the contract with the Euro-Asian Economic Union," after a statement by Mekalister, Lajcak and other representatives. Now, if you, as you say, are taking care of the citizens of Serbia for their own good, what is more important to Serbia? The European Economic Union, or the Union, how do you want it, or the EU? Let's take a look, since in Serbian media, unfortunately, you can't hear a word about this union from the EU, let's hear what the Eurasian Economic Union is. First, the area of this Union is five times larger than the EU and more than double the US. Furthermore, it will continue to spread across the interior of Asia and there are the following members of Iran, Turkey, Syria. Then, over time to the west in deeper Europe, where there are too many Eurosceptics, such as Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and these countries that are not in the EU like Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and others. What they, their candidate for accession, is the same question of the day when, apart from the already present member states, which is 200 million almost market, which are the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, is Uzbekistan, the world's largest cotton producer. What do we get? When these countries join the new Union, it will cover 60% of the world's gas supply and more than 50% of the oil supply. What does Serbia get here again? There are mineral wealth, there are forest treasures, rivers, as well as the most important resource in the future of this planet, the wealth of drinking water. What Moscow, unlike the EU, does not seek and enter this alliance sets no condition for Belgrade to seek any recognition or to give up the sovereignty of any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbia would get the position of leaders through that union in the Balkans and in Southeast Europe. Now we have a logical question that is being asked, how can you say that we want to enter, sign in October, and we need to sign, but if we join the EU, we and the Russian Federation will break the agreement and impose sanctions on them and break up with the Euro-Asian Economic Union, which is also the political and economic and sound logic of this Government of the Republic of Serbia? When the Kosovo and Metohija issue was here before Mr. Dacic was Aleksandar Vukic, he said, "By the Brussels agreement we signed," he said personally to me, "We haven't had any attacks on Serbs since". Here, two days ago, a minor boy, Danilo Boykovic, was stabbed by Cypriot vermin from southern Kosovo Mitrovica. But then we could hear the president of the state in Medvedja saying -- don't worry, this will always be Serbia. We have heard many times that some part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is Serbia, so when we enter into negotiations, as you say -- here, now just let them cancel the fees, we will return to the negotiating table. Which, for what, for what Pacoli, Haradinaj or who already announces that he would extend the question of Bujanovec, Presheva and Bear? That's why I'm going to leave tomorrow as a National MP with candidates for SRS committees in Medvedja, to go and explain to the people in Medvedja that there is no negotiations. What black compromise, what demarcation? What does that mean – this is Serbia? How long will it be Serbia? Is Serbia four municipalities now in the north of KiM, until a legally binding agreement is signed or will we then enter negotiations one day for Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja? The Serbs in Medvedja should trust you, after you say you haven't met anything since the taxi was abolished and you'll be sitting back at the EU-sponsored table, which tells you openly – you can't strengthen financially, because we say so too, you can't sit with Russia, we determine when Russia can deliver your weapons. We boast one day that we work well with Russia, and then the next day we say, or the regime in Serbia, the representatives of the regime say – we have friendly co-operation with EU representatives. Did you hear a friend stab each other in the back? Is your friend McAllister? Is your friend Lajcak? Is he a friend of yours, Mogerini? Who are your friends? When are we going to hear what's the red line you're not going to cross? You're talking about Dragan Gilas. Well, who cares about that criminal? We're waiting for you to arrest him. I understand that you wanted him for your mayor in front of the SNS, he didn't agree, what to do now, it's not our fault that you're trading with DS MPs, SPOs and whatever people are already here who are sitting and their representatives are saying the opposite of what your party president is saying. Well, you don't agree with each other what you want and you want us to believe you and that the people trust you. That's impossible. Why don't you come out and tell the difference between the Euro-Asian Economic Union and the EU? Why didn't you go to Medvedja and tell the real truth, but open up and boast of the asphalt? Will the asphalt solve tomorrow's bear citizens problem? No, he won't. Both the Medvedja and all the municipalities of both the south and the whole of Serbia can take a breath only when the SRS wins, because unlike the representatives of the regime, we do not suck up to EU representatives. Well, you come to talk, brag about how you meet the conditions of criminals and people who don't respect the laws. So, is this your policy? Your only task now is to beg them to go to the polls so they can be legitimate to you. So you admit that the state of Serbia is not a political good, because there will be no legitimacy. Well, I hope they don't make the election. Here, where are they? Did they go to the election? So, where are they today? If you have evidence, arrest them, but we want to hear the other from you, to get up Minister Dacic, to get out of Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and to say – we will never recognise independent Kosovo and we will never give the pedal of the Serbian country to the Cypriot terrorists.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60137	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60138	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a policy of truth, is a policy of peace and is a policy of preserving security and security, is a policy of partnership, is a policy of friendship. These are the basic principles on which Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are based their own internal and external policies. When it comes to foreign policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is, above all, the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic was legitimately elected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by a vast majority in the presidential elections, and he is a statesman in the right sense of the words that are in China, whether in Brussels, whether in Moscow, whether in any other country, he puts the interest of the Republic of Serbia first and the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the first plan. That's what characterizes a responsible politician. That's what characterizes a politician who speaks only the truth and that's what the people recognize and why the people give him enormous support. He does not tell one story in Brussels, the second story in New York, and the third story, manipulative and populist, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The truth is one thing, the truth is the Serbian interest, the truth is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and it is Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia all of this time doing power in a very successful way and realising it. Not SNS, Aleksandar Vucic and this government adopted, or at the time of its government, the false republic of Kosovo brought a declaration of so-called. Independence. It was not during the conduct of Alexander Vukic and this government that the secession and departure of Montenegro took place. Alexander Vukic, neither SNS nor this government, asked for the removal of negotiations from the UN to Europe, but did so by a yellow tycoon robbery company headed by Foreign Minister Jeremic. They asked that question, the question KIM moved from the UN to Brussels. Of course, at the request of the yellow tycoon company, Gilas, Tadic and Jeremic were asked a crazy question, and this is the question of whether the declaration of independence, the declaration of the so-called declaration. the countries of the Republic of Kosovo in accordance with international law. Can you imagine who that went to? It went to the opinion of the International Court in The Hague, the international court which is a political court and which has tried mainly only Serbs for everything that was done on the territory of the former SFRY. Of course, what kind of opinion could have been rather negative for us. They did everything to set the border on Jarinj. They separated the Serbian people from the Serbian people. Alexander Vukic and this government are just doing the opposite. And these agreements that are on the agenda today, although countries that are geographically far away from us, contribute to being one of these countries, which is the Republic of Suriname, meanwhile, gave up recognition so-called. false countries of Kosovo. I must also point out our great activity on 20 November 2018 and the great activity of the Interior Minister in Dubai, when it was debated, when the false state of Kosovo applied for membership in Interpol, when it really proved that our diplomatic activity, but also the influence and activity of the Minister of Interior Nebojsa Stefanovic was huge, Serbia won the victory. The fake state of Kosovo was not admitted to Interpol, and 51 countries, including China, Russia, Belarus, Spain, were on our side. Of course, I must point out that unlike those who ruled until 2012, we are not ashamed of our heroes from Kosar, we are not ashamed of our generals who honorably defended this country from NATO aggression, nor General Lazarevic, nor General Delic, nor General Pavkovic. We do not minimise the importance of the largest Ustasha pogrom of Serbs after Jasenovac, which is 600,000 expelled Serbs from the territory of Croatia in action "Storm", when Croatia was ethnically cleansed from Serbs. For the first time, Alexander Vucic, in connection with this terrible pogrom since his arrival in power, marks the day of memory of this terrible event that took place in our near history. In voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party will support all agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60139	Thank you, colleague. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60140	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, respected MPs, in international relations, the conclusion of bilateral agreements that are abolished by visas is considered a significant step towards creating more favourable conditions for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural and other areas of life, in order to improve mutual bilateral relations and in order to facilitate travel for their citizens who are the bearers of ordinary, diplomatic or official passports. The leaders of the previous government have done great damage to Serbia, evicted a decision on Kosovo from the UN, where we had two veto-right forces in the European Union. The reminders, they also addressed the International Court of Justice. Such bad decisions have reduced Serbia's influence on resolving the Kosovo issue. These are the results of their irresponsible policy. Today we have the opposite process. Serbia is active today, has friends in the world. No wrong move at Serbia's expense has been made. Also, Serbia's influence on resolving the Kosovo issue has been increased. Due to the growing influence of our president, Alexander Vukic, and the government, in international politics, a growing number of countries are reviewing their decision to recognise Kosovo. All of this is a good policy indicator that this government, headed by our president, leads to a struggle to preserve state and national interests. So far, 15 countries have withdrawn their decision to recognise Kosovo. One of the countries is Suriname. At a session of the General Assembly in Dubai, I voiced a negative statement during an attempt to join Kosovo in Interpol. As a result, a climate was created for the development of interstate co-operation in various areas with many countries that did not recognise independence, or they withdrew their decision to recognise so-called. Kosovo. The goal is to better position Serbia on the international agenda, achieve effective results in international organisations, where support from vital interest for our country is a special place. The key together is to defend the principles of international law, as well as other open issues, to support respect for the principles of protection, territorial integrity, as well as to support our policy. Also, Serbia's goal is to create a favourable environment for business co-operation and attract investment from different countries, increase trade and economic co-operation. Thanks to our president's co-operation and policy, Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is more respected today, in the number of investments and business co-operation takes a high place. There are more and more countries that believe and invest in our country, and all this thanks to stability. Every country is important because it is a new bridge of Serbia with the world. This government's policy is to develop good interstate relations. That's the way to our better positioning on the international agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60141	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60142	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Marinkovic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens who follow the session of the National Assembly, Serbia is a country that has been through a lot in its history. Destroyed, destroyed, but never had those people inside who wanted Serbia to disappear so badly and not to, as we do today have a part of the opposition that dreams of Serbia not only having an economic, but also in a literal sense. But unfortunately for them, it remains only a dream, because since 2014, led by then the prime minister and today Serbia's President, Alexander Vukic, and all those who, along with the Serbian Progressive Party and shoulder to shoulder with Alexander Vukic were ready to fight for Serbia's salvation, for its survival in every sense, thanks to all of them, today Serbia can say that it is on a good path, that today knows where it is going, that today it does not wander its eyes, listening to false promises and false stories. Today, Serbian citizens do not listen to stories of a better life, but feel it. They feel this better life thanks to the responsible politics of Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party, the government of the Republic of Serbia. Responsible policy, primarily by looking at this policy through international relations, through the reputation Serbia enjoys today in the world. Serbia is not a mat today, it is not a rag, it is not someone who takes orders. Serbia listens to the world today, listens to the West, listens to the East, listens to both north and south. He doesn't give up on anyone in the world. Of course, like every other country in the world, we have our own strategy, our own strategic policy, our goals, and that's something that I would say is completely natural. Some who ruled Serbia until 2012, the only goal they had was to fill as many and as fast as possible pockets and all this under a fake European pro-European policy. The real pro-Serbian, along with European politics, has been in power in Serbia since 2012 and in 2014 by the arrival of Alexander Vukic as prime minister. There would be no progress in Serbia, there would be no growth of 4.5%, there would be no new 120 factories in Serbia, there would be no new 300,000 jobs, there would be no new hundreds of kilometers of highways if not for such responsible policies of the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens clearly recognize that. Serbian citizens feel it in their pockets. Serbian citizens responsible, Serbia's international policy and the reputation Serbia enjoys every day, see also through the way we are addressed by representatives of the international community, see also through certain shifts, I would say, in the part of the Western world, in a positive sense, that goes towards Serbia, and in this positive, I would say, that there is no president, or Prime Minister from Western countries who has not come to Serbia and talk to Serbia as an equal partner, which means that we are respected, we can say what our national interests are, we can tell everyone in the face that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia, we can tell everyone that we are not going to give up on fighting to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, we can look for everyone in the world what belongs to us in Kosovo and Metohija, we can go to Kosovo and Metohija, and not as Boris Tadic, when false independence of the false state of Kosovo and the Met is faster. President Alexander Vukic didn't run anywhere. He went among Serbian citizens to Kosovo. His ministers also, to talk to Serbs in Kosovo, to see what all Serbs need to do to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president for them. What all of us other citizens in the rest of Serbia can do is that our countrymen in KIM stay there to live, feel safer, see that the Serbian government is really there for the first time in the last 20 years, that the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia with all their hearts, that no one else in the world will ever be able to imagine that Serbs are being expelled from any territory where they live. Now, this is the result of a responsible policy run by today's government in the Republic of Serbia. That Serbian citizens feel secure, above all, that Serbia is a respected country, that it has a growing and growing reputation in the world, that more and more new investments are coming to this country, that our citizens are living from day to day are getting better and better. This is the result of this policy. That is why I believe, and that is why I support the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, because she has given concrete results. It's not a colorful lie for Serbian citizens. Citizens, when they sit in their cars and take a vacation, go to visit their relatives in Serbia, see highways, see new roads, see bridges, see tunnels. People really see a better life. It's not something that's drawn on some map, done in some program as something that's going to be one day, it exists. There is a better life in Serbia, and it will be better from year to year. Once again, absolute support for the president of the Republic of Serbia in the policy it leads and in everything it does for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60143	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go, Mr. Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, any diplomatic activity that provides new international friendships, certainly has a huge role to play in raising the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and should be accepted unconditionally as such. In addition to reputation, the country's international political strategy is stronger, which can lead a crucial battle to preserve its own integrity, as well as its own state space. The crucial moment of this fight is KIM, and in this fight I would particularly point out, draw attention to preventing Kosovo from entering UNESCO. Not because it is a more important international institution than others, but because in Serbia too, we often encounter those who absolutely do not understand what UNESCO means and how UNESCO works. UNESCO is a roof monument protection organization, but UNESCO as I say protects the form, not the essence. UNESCO operates through local security services. The only protection agency that should protect UNESCO monuments, they are only monuments of the SPC, it must be the Republic Institute for the Protection of the Monuments of Serbia. We must preserve artistic values, visual values, but we must also preserve the spirit. We need to preserve the Serbian Orthodox liturgy, we need to preserve the 800-year-old Holy Massive Liturgy, because by shutting down this liturgy and shutting down the church, monasticism goes away, and so goes the people from KIM. That is why the Serb community must be completely unique, and it is unique in the Serbian List and thus has its right to fight. But while Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and SNS are fighting a battle for absolute unity and the country's reputation, a part of the so-called. The opposition is organised by special units to attack the president and the presidency building, with special combat political means in the form of toilet paper. It's the Alliance's relationship with Serbia and similar organisations to the state institutions, so if you want to go to sacral construction in our capital. Some have shown themselves so much in this struggle that a high-ranking front-row toilet paper will soon be introduced on a yellow yellow star line. There's a dead race that will take first from the opposition leader this high confession. A number of toilet fighters were spotted with only half a roll. I assume that the second half of the toilet paper was used to multiply a political programme that is only adequate for such means of political struggle. The answer, of course, is what kind of political struggle is yellow, and the smell is familiar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60145	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. Now the word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60146	Dear colleagues, ministers, representatives of the ministry, viewers of this direct transmission, citizens of Serbia, all these agreements are very important. Yes, we are talking about it today, but God forbid we have more and we have a few of these agreements every week that we sign with the whole world, because after years in which Serbia has been isolated, in which it has had major challenges, and we see only these when we talk about these European integrations, there is no country that has been a candidate or that is still a candidate for EU accession that has had more challenges of procedural and others. To give that example, all Chapter 35 is actually the easiest chapter, because this chapter remains questions, and Chapter 35 is the most difficult question for us, because it essentially has a solution to our AP KIM problem. So our diplomacy has to spread around the world, spread out. We have to have more people, we have to have better situations. I've already spoken to the Minister on one Foreign Affairs Committee, and I told him, let's just say, it's amazing that in some countries we have such a situation with an embassy building like Washington, which has not been solved and that it just has to be solved, because if in the capital of the most powerful state in the world, we're on the second floor of some apartment building or business building where there's no flag, no board, nothing, because we're not still solving that issue, it's simply unacceptable. We still have problems in many embassies and with the budget, but since the state is stronger and things should be fixed, because our ambassadors are invited to all receptions, and for example Serbia's Statehood Day is not organised to join our embassies or to a large number of not organised. I was in France last year at our embassy, where there was a beautiful reception, where they believed or not, there were so many people that there was no place to stop. There was interest, so Serbia can cause interest and can bring people together. This foreign policy is, I will remind you, formed and it has been run since the day Alexander Vukic was first elected Prime Minister and this is the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is being followed today and should continue this way, because it gives positive results. It shows investments in our country. I have to say, I'm very pleased, because we gathered in a huge number just now in the Little Hall and we had a meeting with the outgoing ambassador of the United States, a group of friendships, but it's gonna come new and it's just showing great seriousness. The MPs really spoke to him in an open and open manner. The meeting also included those talking about the boycott of parliament, several DS MPs, Tadic's party, etc. were present in no small number. They sat down and talked to us, and it was all really necessary to say constructively. There weren't any big dissonant tones. Simply Serbia must also, because of its journey to the EU, which is necessary, and Serbia is the place in any case, but also in the future, it must significantly improve relations with the United States, with the whole world that we somehow, not only, I think, are wrong throughout Europe, we call the Western world wrong, there is no Western and Eastern world, there is Europe, European fidelity, European tradition, culture. Serbia and the Serbian people belong to that, and all Western Balkan countries. Thank you, Professor, for reminding me. There is more, with Professor Corovic, in the history of Serbs and Serbia, you also have the expression of the Western Balkans. It's said, it's mentioned, I think for the first time at that uprising, but well, and Southeast Europe, we can call whatever you want. Anyway, we need better and better relationships. This is, I think, here, now it's well explained at this meeting, often not understood in the right way, and when a move like this is made, I want to say, as Mr. Palmer's appointment as a special envoy for the Western Balkans. He was otherwise in his position within the State Department or under Secretary of State Pompe, and has been in charge of the Western Balkans before, but also of Southeast Europe, which includes Greece, Bulgaria and Turkey. Given the situation with Turkey and Syria, the US and Turkey relations, it was given to him by at least 80% of his jobs and responsibilities. When he has now won this special position, it only says that the US administration is important to resolve our issue and how important it is, because it is thus rid of all other obligations, it is likely to be taken over by someone else for Turkey, etc., and it will deal with the Western Balkans. I have to translate it, and probably people and the minister know it and everyone else knows it, so Belgrade and Pristina relations and the situation in BiH. Because within two, three months of Macedonia, Northern Macedonia and officially becoming a NATO member, they remain to solve these two other situations, so they see it. So, in the next period, we have to take advantage of this situation. This is something that's good for us now. Well, let's get ready, though I think we're well prepared already, but if we have to use this situation even better to get Serbia in the situation President Vukic is talking about, which is that he doesn't lose everything and he doesn't agree to it, which he certainly won't agree to, but to win, to be in a better position than we were in 2012, when we took power from the predecessors. So, let's do more for Serbia as much as possible. This is a real opportunity. For the next year, it's a real opportunity. I would ask my colleagues to show great seriousness in this matter, that while we are working, to the new composition of Parliament that we do as much as possible for Serbia, to resolve this situation, to better do the jobs that are ahead of us, to bring as many European laws as possible, but, of course, these agreements that help Serbia and to achieve and to strengthen the friendships that it has, and, somewhere, to restore the friendships that it has, because we need it as much as possible. So once again, I repeat, the restoration of friendship and co-operation with countries that we call the West, besides all this, is about something that we need to do as much as possible in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60147	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60148	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Marinkovic, Mr Foreign Minister Dacic and his associates, allow us before we begin before I say about the agenda, to express my gratitude to the President of the State, Alexander Vukic and you, Mr Foreign Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the very successful conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, particularly in the success of withdrawing the recognition of the false state of Kosovo by 15 countries. Secondly, do not be angry, Mr Dacic, either you, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, for not being invited to Poland to mark the beginning of World War II. We don't belong there. They marked the beginning, I underline, the beginning of World War II. We will next year mark 75 years of victory over fascism. That's where we belong, and you'll probably all be there. Today, Mr Foreign Minister, we are discussing four draft laws on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Dominican, the Government of Paraguay, the Government of the Surinam and the Government of the Myanmar Republic, concerning the release from the obligation to obtain visas for holders of both ordinary and diplomatic, official, or diplomatic and official passports. Let only two sentences on each individual because of our citizens. The Republic of Paraguay is a South American country, which has not recognised, as you said, a false state of Kosovo, and it is very important to continue diplomatic relations. What's important is that we and Paraguay established diplomatic relations 69 years ago straight. We care about Paraguay, among other things, for a part of our people who are there more than 100 years ago and who preserves our people's national and cultural identity. In particular, Mr. Minister, you know this, perhaps not for one part of the people's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Hjustic family, which has been giving honorary consuls since the 20th century. Serbia has also established good bilateral and economic relations with Paraguay so that the trade in goods is more than 150 000 euros, otherwise exports are higher than imports, but we are also interested in them because of support in international organisations, and that is very important. The Maymarian Union is a country of South-West Asia, previously called Burma, which has over 60 million inhabitants and is very important. That population is very important to us. We established diplomatic relations with them 69 years ago. It's one of the 15 countries that withdrew the so-called "recognition". the countries of Kosovo. Serbia, too, has established bilateral and economic co-operation with it, as you said, so that in 2018, the trade in goods amounted to up to 18m euros. It's very important with our exports being higher than our imports. Furthermore, the Republic of Suriname is about the size of our Montenegro, between 500 and 600, although the Montenegrins do not have so many, Suriname is slightly larger. There are so many residents, but it is important that it is one of the countries that has withdrawn the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. We established diplomatic relations with her 43 years ago. We have established bilateral and economic relations, but it is very important because of the support in international organisations, we are with them. The Dominican Republic is one of the fifteen countries that have withdrawn the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo. It is a South American state that is very interesting to us, which is by the number of people like our Serbia. It's on the island of Hispanjola. Why do I say that? Because in 1492 he discovered Christopher Columbus, as our students know then and begins an officially new century. So, since 1492. Serbia established diplomatic relations 36 years ago. It is very important for the Republic of Serbia for mutual support in international organisations. Dear Minister Dacic, until these four countries recognise a false state Kosovo and withdraw recognition of the false state of Kosovo until our opposition from the Alliance for Serbia has publicly denied KIM and, behold, wonders therefore accuse Alexander Vukic. I'll give you an explanation. The leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, a people called Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, in the people known as the Wolf descendant, otherwise a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds and other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia met on 4 July 2008 at the Chacan café "Morjevski alasi" in which they made a plan at the moment of some international factors to bring down Alexander Vukic's street protests on the subject of KIM. Mr. Foreign Minister, these moral freaks instead of tearing down Vukic they should have agreed to return KIM from where they drove him, these traitorous bastards. Thus, these moral clumps fell so low that they used the misfortune of their people for their own interests. And, behold, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, said on November 30th, 2018, quote – Aleksandar Vukic is a traitorous bastard, finished quote. Honorable foreign ministers, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic is a great Serbian patriot, a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer and Democrats, and would never work against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and his homeland, unlike them, who are indeed traitors. The explanation, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, was in talks with US congressman Ted Pom in December 2008 saying, "Here, let him deny me, on whatever television he wants, quote - the entry of the KIM UN, the best that Serbia should hope for if it is lucky, a quote is completed. And so Wolf Jeremic became a traitorous bastard. Vuk Jeremic, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you know that, Mr Dacic, ministers, very well, asked for the transfer of the UN Security Council to the EU and thus brought Mission Eulex to KIM and stabbed his own citizens and his own country for the second time and thus became our country's traitorous bastard. Let him deny me wherever he wants and whenever he wants. Vuk Jeremic, purposely asked the unnecessary question of the legality of the declaration of Kosovo's independence before the international court of justice and thus further supported the independence of KIM and stabbed in the back of his country and became by who knows which way the bastard and traitorous bastard of our country is. Zoran Zivkovic, in a people called the farmer in an attempt, otherwise former Prime Minister of Dossovska, otherwise the manufacturer of the yogurt and water vaccine, vacuumed chickens in the village of Pukovac, picked up money, fled, chickens died, because in October 2003, he said at the International Conference in Vienna, and I quote, regardless of whose KIM, it is finished, and is classified in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Boris Tadic, a people called Lipicaner, said in a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, quoting -- an independent KiM does not have to mean loss if it is designated under the right in the voters' heads. That puts him in line for the traitorous scum of our country. The same Boris Tadic, in a people called Lipicaner, told US envoy Vizner, well-known to you on July 27th 2006, "I gave assurance and broke into myself and processed and accepted independence as well as the outcome. "This is the second time he has placed himself in the traitorous scum of our country. Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pishoi, because I quote that he will pee on the grave of the President of the Republic. That's usually the one who's famous for it says, "Gram right now, and five grams to carry." He said on January 31st 2019, I quote -- Kosovo is lost, Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs. By doing so, the wise Sergei ranks in the order of the traitorous bastards of our country. Nenad Canak, a people called Neso Gicoje, said in March 2017 as a failed presidential candidate -- I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence. That puts him in line for the traitorous bastards of our country. Look at the wonders, Nesho Gicoje is today, on June 24, 2019, said - Kosovo is not Serbia, but a place where some people live. That's the second time he's made himself into the traitorous bastards of our country. On December 13, 1991, Nenad Canak, you remember very well, said in the Memorandum of Vojvodina -- the future of Vojvodina is to become a republic within Serbia, and if Serbia does not agree to become an independent state. That's the third time he's put himself into the traitorous scum of our country. Cedomir Jovanovic, in a people called Ceda Smrkanovic, said on 29 September 2015 -- the state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act that only irresponsible politicians ignore. Dragan Djilas, a people called Điki Mafia, sent US embassies Jennifer Brass on August 13, 2009, in talks with the emissary – I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic and give up Kosovo. That's how the Gicky Mafia got into the ranks of our country's traitorous bastards. Let him deny it. Professor Dr. Rade Veljanovski, otherwise in a people called Rade ajara because he strove and hung around those PhDs, teachers know it very well, otherwise one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, in a people called Rade ajara, said on March 21st 2018, Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a UN chair. By doing so, the great Rade Veljanovski, called the egg, was placed in the order of the traitorous bastards of our country. Here's the last one, Bosko Obradovic, in a nation called "Bosko Violent", is 13. 06. In 2019, at a secret meeting in the US ambassador's residence in Belgrade, silenced Kosovo's independence. He did not, in any word, contradict Kyle Scott and Mr Palmer, who repeatedly repeated, quote that Kosovo is an independent state, completed a quote and thus settled in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Mr. Foreign Minister, Mr. Honorable Dacic, these traitorous bastards are daily satanicizing lies, plantings, the half-truths of our President Alexander Vukic, his family, his associates and SNS because Alexander Vukic has reformed and saved the state of Serbia and is standing firm as a rock on the defender of the country. Look at the miracles, some Goran Markovic, a director who normally works for 20 years, 26 years against the Serb people and against Serbia, in a people called "bumbar" said 04. Seventy-seven. In 2019, that, quote, be careful – Aleksandar Vukic is a primitive figure, complete quote and add, quote - Aleksandar Vukic is a commoner, and the crowd is its natural environment, finished quote. And 30. On the 08th of 2019, the same Goran Markovic, in a people called the beetle, said, quote – that our authority is terrorist and that the election is organised by a group of bandits, finished quote. The Mr. "bumbar" never told Albanian terrorists that they were terrorists and Croatian Ustashas that they were Ustasha. He never said a word to banish the biblical proportions of the Serbian people from Croatia, but he said Srebrenica is genocide, he doesn't even know, even though it's a professor of the University of What Genocide. Respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs, I recommend the director, as signed, to frame Goran Markovic with all this spoken disdain about the president of the Republic, his associates, the SNS and the ruling coalition of gatherings, frame and place in his living room daily and to remind himself of his highest range and high degree of culture. And in the morning when he wakes up, when he gets up and washes himself, he looks in the mirror, he's gonna see a bloated beetle full of hate for his people and President Vukic who's been lying in it for the last 22 years. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, distinguished foreign ministers, Mr Dacic, I am afraid, when he learns that Alexander Vukic and his president are going to blow up and destroy him. God help him. It's not just him. You've heard the same thing these days. The great doctor again, for the third time, is Dr. Jovo Bakic. That's what you heard. Otherwise, he received a promotion when he said, just a month after he was declared a docent, for the third time he was now declared an extraordinary professor just because he spit on the state of Serbia and the ruling coalition. Do you know what he said these days? That's right, Anti Pavelic and Adolf Hitler, Dr Jovo Bakic, for the third time the doctor, said 19. Eight. Lord 2019, I quote: "In order for the state summit of the Republic of Serbia to best perform in the Sava and the Danube," he concluded, adding: "We will beat them when they swim in the Sava and the Danube." Respected citizens of Serbia, respected students to whom he teaches, is it possible for him to pronounce this, these words, Prof. University? He never said they were terrorists. He praised them. He never told a part of the Croatian Ustasha that they were Ustasha, but that he praised them. I think it's time the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy and the students saw who was poisoning them, who was cursing our people the moment we were in one of the most tragic moments in Serbia's recent history. In the end, I address you gentlemen the citizens of my Kosovo and Metohija, I call on all Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, all my former students, all my fellow professors, all my teachers, to whom I was once a professor, and today businessmen around the world and the Republic of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, to give their vote to the Serb list in Kosovo and Metohija in these crucial moments for the state of Serbia. I especially call on my former students, colleagues, professors not to succumb to the propaganda of the Alliance for Serbia. Well, you won't, fellow professors, so you know, believe me, Rada Trajkovic, the associates of Bernard Kouchner, and never told the Shiptarian terrorists they were terrorists. I have the courage to tell her, as a colleague, that Rada Trajkovic, a political associate of Alliance for Serbia leader Dragan Gilas, called the "Djiki Mafia", Vuk Jeremic, called "The Wolf of the Seeds", and Bos Obradovic, called "The Violent" on 19 August 2019, said, quoting, believe it or not, Serbian citizens, but this said: "The thing in front of the Serbian presidency is just some of the tits that are made of fools and for the sake of dictators and rapists," finished. On August 17, 2019, Kobri members were just doing their job. Rada Trajkovic did not insult members of the Cypriot police, is that right, Mr. Odalovic, you are from Kosovo and Metohija, she never said it, and I know very well, I have worked 24 years in Kosovo and Metohija. Rada Trajkovic has a daughter, and she didn't think about her when she insulted the Kobras, so how would she feel if her daughter had called some titty while doing her job? You're silent and non-governmental organizations, silent and journalistic associations, gentlemen journalists, who are more political workers once during the communist regime. At the very end, let me say, when the third time the doctor, Jovo Bakic, said those nasty things, do you know who was next to him? Zoran Lutovac called ‘The Zalutovac’. He strayed into politics, that's what the people tell him. And his other leaders, what do you think, and Dragan Gilas that they reacted? Now, Mr. Dacic, it would be us if they came to power, both for you and for us here. They would come with us, as they say in Sava and Danube. They won't watch that movie because they wanted it in 2000. They're a disgrace to our country. Why do I say that? Because in 2000, and you know it well, like me, they came to power without victory, the second round was gone. Milosevic did not lose the election, and Kostunica did not win. Otherwise, they sent our president to Vidovdan, a second stain in Serbia's recent history. Let them be ashamed, they think to wash their past, but we historians, honest, honest, thank God, we write all over the world. Look at the wonders, those who did it from the West admit, only these domestic NATO dusters don't admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60149	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60150	Dear Chairman, Minister Dacic and his associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, are discussing the draft law on an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Paraguay on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official and official passports. The second agreement we are discussing is with the former state of Burma and today's Myanmar, which is our friendly country that has not recognised Kosovo. One of the agreements is also an agreement with the state of Suriname, which is the first state to withdraw Kosovo's recognition. This friendly state of ours, in addition to withdrawing recognition, was at the latest Interpol conference to express its opposition to Kosovo's admission to Interpol. The agreement concerns the release from the obligation to obtain visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and official special passports. The fourth proposal to confirm the agreement is between the government of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official passports. The state recognised Kosovo, but voted against Kosovo's entry into Interpol at the Interpol session. Since 2008, at the time the state of Kosovo declared independence, it has been recognised by 87 countries, and since 2012, seven more, while 15 states have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo. Thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbian government, Minister Dacic and his ministry, Serbia is on the list today at 28th place at the value of its passport. Serbia is daily trying to establish friendly relations and brings them to the highest level using old friendly relations from the past, and today with its peaceful policy and understanding. Peru and Egypt have frozen recognition, so we expect these two countries to be the next two to declare not to recognise Kosovo. Today, Serbia is a country that respects the whole world, and thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, and an effort that makes it clear to everyone, including the countries of Quinte, that Kosovo is not a state and that Serbia's interests will have to be respected and accept compromise with Kosovo's provisional institutions. For our people in KIM, it is most important that they be complex and that on 6 October they come out and vote for themselves and for their children in KIM and see only the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic there. All those on another list, not on the Serbian list, are those who support Jeremic, Obradovic, Djilas and Rada Trajkovic from Serbia. Serbs from Kosovo trust Alexander Vukic, but that is why they should confirm that October 6th and vote only for the Serb list. Serbs in KIM must never go to two or more columns again, and those who sold Kosovo back in 2008 and returned the debate on Kosovo to Brussels from the UN, such as Jeremic and Tadic, there is nothing left for them and anyone to believe. Serbia today, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, has friends it can and must count on. China and Russia as members of the Security Council are with Serbia and will support everything Serbia proposes. So in voting day, I ask my colleagues to accept all these agreements and vote them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60151	Thank you. The word is Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60152	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have a law on the agenda confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic of Myanmar, Paraguay and Suriname. It is very important to say that this signing of a visa waiver agreement on diplomatic and official passports will improve our bilateral co-operation with these countries, but it is also important to say that of these four countries, three have not recognised independent Kosovo, except the Dominican Republic, and voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. So UNESCO is a very important organisation because the UNESCO World Heritage List contains five monasteries and three churches from Serbia that are under their protection. Of these five monasteries, two are located in Kosovo – High Decani and Gracanica, and of the three churches that are under their protection, there are two churches on KIM, which are Pecka Patriarchija and Bogorodica Ljeviška. The Serbian people stayed in Kosovo after the 2008 pogrom in KIM just to live and work on the territory around these monasteries and churches. For those quasi patriots who live on the Sava Venice, or in Belgrade, and drill into the chest and advocate a better life of Serbs in Kosovo, it is certainly not the right time, regardless of which they are mercenaries of some foreign embassies, because our President Aleksandar Vukic in every respect supports the normal life and work of our Serbs on KIM. Of course, even after the introduction of illegal KIM taxis for Serbian goods, Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic have shown that we are always ready to help our people when it is most difficult. In that sense, I would quote one speech from our President Alexander Vukic, who was here on May 27th, when the session was about KIM, said. He then quoted Borislav Pekic, and today I'm going to quote him. "Serbia can no longer endure that amount of lies and hypocrisy, it cannot move forward as it chokes in the fictional past and poor present. We do not have room for self-deceptions, fairy tales, paroles, false motives and false idols, but we do not have time for those who would hand over everyone who wants to naked Serbia, to leave the Serbian people without its essence and without its spiritual existence. “ After these words, every Serb and true patriot should know that October 6th is a very important day for the survival of our Serbs in KIM and that our Serbian List has the greatest support of Serbia and our president, and that those who want to destroy Serbia's reputation have no right to do so and will not allow them to have the true patriotism of Serbia. In voting day, I will support all these laws that are on the agenda, as well as all my colleagues from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60153	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60154	Since I am the last speaker of the MPs, and that is more than obvious, I must say that the state is not 29 nights on St. Stefan. The diplomacy isn't 29 nights at St. Stefan's. The diplomacy is not meant to throw a party at St. Stefan's, to sell the country for a chair, which was done by President Boris Tadic, a descendant. I argue that this authority was in 2006 and 2008 in this configuration, today Montenegro would not be separated from Serbia. I do not dispute Montenegro's statehood, she had this statehood, but I dispute Montenegro to be an anti-Serbian state. It did not become an anti-Serbian state because of Milo Djukanovic's views and not only because of Djukanovic's views, but also Vuk Jeremic. These are two Vuk Brankovics, two traitors of Serbian national interests, two men who sold their nationality, their honor, their country because of the position and the chair. They're servant men. Imagine, for 29 nights at Saint Stefan, you allow the previous separation of the Serbian state of Montenegro from the Serbian state of Serbia. That was inadmissible. That wouldn't have happened if this government had ruled back then. There would be no independent Kosovo, or, more specifically, there would be no declaration of a wild state of Kosovo, nor international recognition by more than 90 countries. If this government had ruled back then, they wouldn't have asked me for the opinion of the International Court of Justice of those who recognized a wild state. They were so-called. The red lines promised to the US Embassy would respect, but only if the US Embassy convinces Albanians not to declare independence before Boris Tadic is elected president of the Republic of Serbia for the second time in 2008. That's what happened. Boris Tadic took an oath just before he fled to Bulgaria, right, Mr. Martinovic? Romania? In Romania, as well as in Bulgaria, because Bulgarians were slightly larger friends of ours. Just before he fled to Romania, he took an oath on February 14th. By taking an oath, the Constitution says, you become President of the Republic. Three days later, Albanians declared Kosovo a wild state. If this government had ruled, it wouldn't have happened. Then Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, those who sold the country for the chair, then kicked out of the UN game and introduced the European Union into negotiations. That's how they got Russia and China out. That was what they owed the Americans, who were then sponsors, the unequivocal sponsors of the wild state of Kosovo. It was their diplomacy. Worse still, they paid the Americans for it. Here is the answer of the current ministry that Vuk Jeremic and Mirko Stefanovic, and this is Uncle Borko Stefanovic, this great fighter for the Serbian thing who, behold, worked in the same ministry where Borko Stefanovic, he and his uncle, can do it, there is no nepotism when it comes to nothing, they paid the Americans for that two million $369 thousand 680. Here, it says here. Don't let these unfortunate men run away from the congregation like the devil from the cross say I'm making something up. It was paid by the contract signed by Vuk Jeremic and Mirko Stefanovic, "Podesta Group", some Byte, Robert, etc. They're some weird companies. Since I don't pay Americans, and this government pays nothing, these companies mean nothing to me. But they paid them a million and 469 thousand dollars and $90,000 on two occasions. So, the Americans were paid by Americans to extend the declaration of independence of the wild state of Kosovo for several months, so that Boris Tadic would win the elections and not lose to Tomislav Nikolic. That happened to him four years later. But what was four years later, we paid dearly, as a state, as a country. The diplomacy isn't just 29 nights and betrayals, it's diplomacy and, I welcome the government, the President of the Republic and all the ministers who acted out withdrawing recognition. They showed that they had a completely different policy than the one run by the Democratic Party, which today, of course, is not here. He boycotts the National Assembly, which is educated by the rules, the electoral rules they have adopted. This is what they were doing. We wouldn't even do it in madness. This country costs money. And today's diplomacy, today's government and today's president of the Republic of Serbia have a difficult task to make out of the impossible situation, to do anything about it. In doing so, they have an obstruction of those who boycott themselves. And I don't know what they're boycotting anymore? I think they're boycotting common sense and brains, if that's what they've got. I think they will be boycotted by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for everything they have done and for what they are doing today. Today, as an opposition, only what they did as a government continues, which is to make the position of the Republic of Serbia more difficult. They're still doing the job and the promise they made to the U.S. Embassy, and I think it was Jennifer Brasch, who gave it to her. And Vikilix's dumplings unequivocally indicate that this happened. I asked at this assembly the poll committee on Vuk Jeremic, the wolf of descendants, the famous, and Boris Tadic, to review their policy which I called a great high treason, that it is an anti-state policy. And even though the state of Serbia-Montenegro was composed of two federal or confederal units, it had its territory, it had its borders. All of it was run down by Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. Today, the same team, reinforced with Bosko Ljotic, is trying to make it difficult for our diplomacy, the Prime Minister, the Government, ministers and the President of the Republic to pull out the hot chestnuts they have heated. They participated in the construction of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija and our people and we as representatives of our people, and prosecutors representing the people in these crimes they committed and who are obliged to prosecute this type of crime and betrayal, should know that such betrayal and high treason of these unfortunate people who fled the National Assembly cannot be forgiven. Our diplomacy isn't just about territory, it's about economics. Economic results and investments raise the state of Serbia, and any economic progress strengthens Serbia's political role. Only advanced, economically advanced Serbia can protect all its citizens, but can also protect its people in Slovenia, Croatia, Republika Srpska, the Bosniak-Croatian Federation, Montenegro, where the position of Serbs is becoming more and more difficult, in Macedonia and in all other countries where they are located. An economically strong Serbia that acquires its reputation and has the diplomacy it now has, represented by the President of the Republic and this government and similar authorities will each day build a state, thereby building Serbia's position. I believe, not in large Serbia, territorialally, in large Serbia inside, economically strong that will contribute to unification, to feel the need to unite the surrounding state, primarily Serbs do. I believe in an alliance of Serbian states, because I see Montenegro as a Serbian state. I believe that those who challenge the Republic of Serbia and thus make their own state of Bosnia and Herzegovina impossible and will someday contribute to Serbia's economic strength having an alliance of Serbian states and alliances with all of them. I believe that even the Bosniaks will one day, despite the fact that they fired on August 5th when I visited my father's village in Gorazd, above Gorazd, I forgive them, despite the incidents, to wish with Serbs and Serbia. I believe in integration, Serbia's strength and the strength of the Serb people who always want to be together, not only with themselves, but with everyone who wants to be with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60155	Thank you. Does an authorised representative of the motionor want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60156	Considering that, I don't know who to answer to now, because those who asked some questions aren't present. Given that you have a vote to make, I thank you for this debate. I just want to list a few things that aren't about this topic. Of course it's a visa waiver topic. Speaking of which, it's interesting, for example, what kind of paradoxes all exist. Here you have seen these days that many talk about Serbia and Kosovo so-called Kosovo. They should recognize each other, which is an unprecedented nonsense, because Serbia has been an internationally recognised state for 141 years. Why does Serbia even need recognition when Serbia is a member not only but also the founder of the most important international organisations? But it is interesting that Serbia is also on the list of countries that do not need a visa to enter Kosovo. But let me tell you another thing, the citizens of KIM, but let me say to the citizens of Kosovo, since, when we say so, we mean temporary institutions, they can go without visas in five countries, Albania, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Turkey and Maldives. There is a clear difference above all in status, international position and all that we have been saying all these years, and that is that we are ready for agreements, for compromises, but that indeed at no cost, as President Vukic said more than once, we will not accept Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, because this independence cannot be internationally legally verified without Belgrade's consent. And Belgrade will never give consent to this unilateral act. And that's quite clear, and I think all those stories that exist from some opposition parties have completely missed the goal. Here I want only, Veljko added to me here, since George asked that question, when the topic was already open, I was the Prime Minister at that time and here at the assembly session we discussed the report on the political and technical dialogue process so far. It was in April, it seems to me in 2013, apropo of what was accepted earlier, as they often avoid responsibility for it. The process of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina with the EU's intervention was launched on the basis of the UN General Assembly resolution of 9 September 2010. In an EU-mediated dialogue led by the then head of the negotiating team for dialogue with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, Borislav Stefanovic, agreements have been reached in the following areas, from one to eight. Matical books; Freedom of movement; Customs seal; Katastar; Function of CEFTE, during the chairmanship of Umnik; Accepting university diplomas; Integrated control of the administrative line; that is what is now spoken as Jarinje, means setting up, point Regional representation and co-operation. All these agreements were signed and accepted on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, Borislav Stefanovic. When it comes to this agreement, since they are accusing our government, after 2012, that we implemented what they signed, so wait, he initialled from 21 to 24 February 2012. It was round nine. A regional representation and co-operation agreement has been reached, including the paraphrasing of the technical protocol for implementing agreed solutions in the area of integrated control of the administrative line. It means so much about who signed those agreements and agreements that they practically set up in some way those checkpoints together. That was the first time, it was mentioned for the first time that it would be joint checkpoints, mentioning both customs and police. For the first time, you remember that there were roadblocks in Jarinj and that it was in some way in the first plan of political struggle. When it comes to citizens with KIM who do not have the right to visa liberalisation, this means citizens of Kosovo and Metohija who have Serbian passports, they do not have the right to visa liberalisation passports issued by so-called. The co-ordination administrations for Kosovo within the interior ministry. This is because the EU asked, did not want to give visa liberalisation for Kosovo and absolutely neither Serbs nor Albanians from Kosovo have visa liberalisation. You know who does? They have Albanians taking Serbian passports in our embassies and consulates. As far as we're concerned, of course that's an indication for us that they're still Serbian citizens. That they have the courage to do so abroad, and they don't have the courage to say it in Kosovo, is now a second question. When it comes to the Euro-Asian Union, first of all, Serbia has not entered the Euro-Asian Union. Serbia has free trade agreements with individual countries outside the EU. These are CEFTE countries, it's Russia, Kazakhstan seems to me, Belarus, Turkey, etc. Since the Euro-Asian Union makes up several countries and they now have at the level of the Euro-Asian Union a single customs rate and in order to achieve any external trade must agree. We need to sign an agreement with the Euro-Asian Free Trade Union. That's the essence of this agreement. The signing of a free trade agreement with the Eurasian Union, not on membership in the Eurasian Union. That's a huge difference. On the other hand, what I said, and you know it. You know, you can't be in free trade with everyone without any consequences, because those you're with in terms of free trade don't allow it. For example, if Serbia enters the EU and Russia does not like it, it will remain a free trade system. So, joining the EU. So Croatia had to come out of CEFTE because it must accept the rule that it is now part of a European space. But the people we're talking about, it's a topic that will be current when we join the EU. That's six months before joining the EU. God forbid we'll be alive at that time. I hope so, since the negotiator of Turkey I think he died, since the negotiations began. I am not a Eurosceptic, and I must tell you that I do not always share my opinion with us people in charge of European integration. I agree that European integration is an external political priority, but we also have other foreign policy priorities that are sometimes very difficult to manage. You can't now, we have Interpol, you can't have to accept the resolution now. Albania has accepted 100% of the EU resolution declarations. She didn't get anything again. They don't have a reference at all, and they don't need a reference for it, they just need one technical worker who's gonna take all the e-mails off and just put the head of Albania, and we need to take care of our national and national interests, or whether we're going to attack Russia or China today, or whether I, Venezuela or some other country that supports us in international forums when it comes to our problems and issues. It's a very serious issue and everyone in the EU knows it, they all know that we have to protect our national and national interests. Therefore, I think we are wasting our time and discussing something that is a process, unfortunately, which will not happen quickly, and not because Serbia is not ready for it, but because there is no political will, and when I say it will not happen quickly, in 2025 is the year when the story of us entering the EU is told. If someone wants us to join the EU, it's a political decision, it's like when Saudi Arabia becomes a member of the UN Human Rights Council. She certainly didn't become a champion in the field of human rights, but there are political interests to be. At this point at EU level, unfortunately there is no consensus about enlargement, but it is up to us to work further and to work, to do our part of the job, we know our way, so that is why there are no dilemmas about it, we are going to the EU, but we are also taking care of our national and national interests. In the end, let me add more, that these 15 countries that have withdrawn recognition. It's about countries that have two million and 135 thousand square kilometers and about 70 million inhabitants. It is 25 times the size of Serbia, and certainly eight, nine, ten times the size of Serbia per population. But more importantly, it's 8% of the UN's total number of votes and there will be more. They say, we have to stop for them to cancel taxes, so it doesn't matter, you're right when you say they must first form a community of Serb municipalities. President Vukic said he would not continue dialogue until the fees were lifted, and no, they say now we should stop lobbying and they should continue lobbying. Now we've had a meeting in Helsinki and now they're saying we need to stop, and I'm asking them -- you want to stop, you want to stop, you want to stop lobbying for Kosovo? They're quiet. I ask Pacolli - will you stop lobbying for Kosovo and join the international community? Shut up. Well, then we won't stop either. Therefore, it is our national state interest. I just want to say in the end, given everything that, I know that political struggle is sometimes, and everyone has their own party philosophy and party approach, so there's probably a lot of tones here, too. I just want to tell you the next thing I know, I support Alexander Vukic because I think it's good for Serbia. Also, I think he suggested me to this place because he thinks I'm doing good for Serbia. So we're together and don't share us here. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to mention me much, but these are mine. I think I'm being mentioned a little bit, and I think I should, I'm going to run an analysis of who's talking about me and who's in these sessions, because today I sent them a message that I came here, and they're not here. So there have been some polemics today. Listen, everything I'm doing at the level of foreign policy I'm in charge of, I'm working in consultation, in agreement with President Vukic, and I guess that's clear. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just sorry that the opposition don't come, in fact, I apologize, come, from the opposition I mean, I don't know what to call part of that opposition. I've been in this room since 1992 and Maja Gojkovic was with me, we were once the youngest MPs, now we are, thank God, in years. But I've seen a lot of the boycotters, just, you know, where they are and where we are. Here is the most important thing, I am sure that if we continue to do this in Serbia's interest together, unitedly, without arguing with each other, if we had the interests of Serbia, I am sure, and that they participate in elections and boycott, the result would be similar. That's why I welcome you all. I have no doubt that you will adopt these laws, but be assured that these laws are, that we will continue, that these laws are an indicator of political change regarding Serbia. The change is visible in relation to the most important political countries. We had a visit from the president of France, we had a visit from the president of Russia. We hope that both the United States and the United Kingdom will change that approach and that the President of America will come to visit, because for the last time it was Jimmy Carter, and the last time it was Margaret Thatcher as Prime Minister of Great Britain. A visit from Russia, the prime minister, Turkey's president is also expected. Serbia became a place to come, not to order what we're going to do, before it was a phone without a microphone, only with a phone, which is to order you what you're going to do. Now the situation is very different. Of course, the president of China has been visiting, and surely the Prime Minister of China and everything else will come again. It is our goal, and let me just tell you this, to create our best position in the talks on Kosovo's future. We aim to bring down the number of countries that have recognised Kosovo, below half of the UN members, and that will be very soon, by the end of the year. Our goal is to be sure and safe, now President Vukic would say – don't talk like that, if we don't relax, but surely there's no way they're getting into Interpol. So don't embarrass them, I told them in time, because they won't be able to come in, because they won't give them visas in passports they don't admit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-04-0.u60157	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 1 to 4 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday September 4, 2019, starting at 17:00 and 25 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and official passports in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar on the visa waiver of diplomatic and official passports in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128 of the 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Surinam on the release from the obligation to obtain visas for holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official, official and special passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 128 of the 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Dominican Republic on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, of a total of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision to comply with Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. (The session is closed at 5:30.) )
