ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of Members of the People, I find that 106 MPs attend the sitting. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to begin work. We're going to work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61140	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it will assess which ministry will respond, I think it specifically refers to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, but also to the Ministry of Education. What's this about? We believe that Serbia, in fact, is Serbia and is a free and democratic state, in which everyone has the right to protest, in which everyone has the right to make a decision on the boycott, thus expressing his political position, until such a kind of protest or such a type of boycott threatens the right of others and threatens the functioning of the state. I certainly do not argue that one part of the opposition can have a policy shaped in hate, in violence, in threats, but on the other hand, their policy cannot, cannot and should not become the basic modality of social behaviour in Serbia. What's this about? I mean three things specifically. The first thing, freedom of the media, freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are the basic posts of a democratic society as Serbia is. The media has an autonomous right to deal with editorial policy. It's exactly that part of the opposition that has both developed and defined the media privatisation strategy. Is it normal for leaders of a part of the opposition to allow themselves to threaten the editor-in-chief of a daily list and its journalists just because they don't like the way they report and do their job? Should journalists worry about their safety, especially after what happened in front of Pink TV? I'll remind you, where the supporters of one of those leaders of the opposition and physically attacked the journalist. Is it logical that the leaders of that opposition are very open at the press conference, says, I will paraphrasise – I promise you when I come to power, literally your television will not exist? Is that the democracy they stand for? Unfortunately for them, neither in the near future nor in the near future will that happen. Just a few days ago, I'll remind you, one of the daily papers announced on its front page that Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic are partners of the war-to-huška politics. So did someone from SNS and SPS react the way he reacted to this part of the opposition, threatened any journalist, did he enter any of the newsrooms? Of course not, because we respect media freedom. I just insist that the competent authorities and the competent institutions do their job, because I believe that the media must be independent, must be free and must be free of any type of pressure. The other thing is, is it logical that 15 students are blocking the work of a Rectorate, that 15 call students not to allow a university rector to do his job? Is that an academic or political question? As far as I know, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is elected by the MPs, and we are elected by the citizens, and those who were, 15 or how many, are citizens, representatives of one of the political options. And it's common knowledge and it's well-known which policy options. So, classic child abuse for political purposes and that's something we've already seen, you know? It's a pale copy of that former DOS. And in the end, is it logical that those who protest come to the house of someone who just does his job, no matter what political parties he comes from? It's not coming from the SPS, it's coming from the SNS, it's about Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic. Is it logical and normal for them to come in front of someone's house and threaten them? So what is it that we all need to expect in the next period of time, to come to our doorstep, to get into our houses? So can our children feel safe? So, based on all this, we just insist on the reaction of the competent authorities and the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61141	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61142	Thank you. Every one of us likes to be right, but sometimes there are situations where we prefer to be wrong and in a similar position I was in a similar position when I was here in this room pointing to a scandalous act that in a church in Notterdam, Paris, on the eve of the victory day, I found a flag so-called. "Republics of Kosovo" along with the flags of other countries, the winner. I said that one humiliation pulls the other and the other happened a few days later, bearing in mind the famous one, I would say the shameful, treatment that the president of the Republic of Serbia had at that official victory day, or truce in Paris. Something similar is being repeated now over these elections for Kosovo institutions, i.e. elections in Pristina, an extraordinary one, scheduled to be held next week, so on 6 October. Otherwise, my question, not to be a dilemma, goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the President of the Republic, and contains a clear appeal about this, which I have already made here a few weeks ago - therefore, these elections, such as such, for such institutions in Pristina had since the beginning contained elements that, even those who are prone to co-operation, even those who are prone to the participation of citizens, Serbs, in the work of these temporary institutions, simply imposed, the necessity of boycotts of these elections, Pristina. The highlight was, and it was the fruit of my direct address and intervention here, the ban on Serbian citizens to vote with Serbian documents. On the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is forbidden for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to vote with documents from the Republic of Serbia. It was the decision of their CEC, their Central Election Commission. In all the elections so far, even when Pristina organised them, let alone UNMIK and the international community, they could vote with the documents. I said here at the time, draw attention to the fact that this is not a technical question, that it is simply symbolic and that it requires a harsh reaction from the state and called on the institutions to call on, and the government, to call on the boycott. They did not do so and then, as I said at the beginning of this exhibition, one humiliation pulls the other, and now we have witnessed that several days ago, it was said from Pristina that it would be banned and, after all, it was forbidden, not only that it was said but it was done, to the representatives of the Serbian government to participate in the campaign and to cross the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and to participate in some pre-election activity of the Serbian List. So, this one humiliation pulled the other because it didn't respond, and then as a cream on the cake and as a highlight of humiliation followed this yesterday-day, even a ban on the video and punishing the participants of the election because of an election video that mentions what? The state of Serbia is not even a state, but Serbia. The video's formulation was "When Serbia calls, I give my vote" and it bothered those institutions, and they banned the video, or asked it to change. So, esteemed colleagues, as much as we disagree here, there's something that's more and more important than us. Whatever you think about the relations between the government and the opposition, there's something, there are some gestures, some slaps that hurt, hitting all of us collectively. This is exactly what is happening in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, this is exactly what is happening with these decisions that are calling for a conscious, provocative Kosovo CEC and its institutions. So, from the ban on voting with Serbian documents, so far, even the ban on mentioning the word "Serbia" in a pre-election video. I believe that these elections should have been boycotted, but it's a political matter. This is no longer a political matter, but a matter of dignity, elementary dignity and self-respect of the state and its institutions. That's why I call on the authorities, it's not too late, there are seven days, or six days of these choices, to make a decision about it, and it's simple to publish because there is humiliation, as I said, which each of us can judge, which can't be tolerated. Each of us can assess whether or not we need something to suffer or swallow, but this is not a humiliation to our institutions, our state, but I would say to all of us as citizens of Serbia and ancestors and descendants. So please, we have six days to get this farce, this charade of so-called. Kosovo's "choice" is boycotting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61143	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61144	I ask a question on behalf of the SRS, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President of the Republic. In fact, we Serbian radicals have repeatedly stated our point of view that every topic discussed in this House is very important, but there is one topic which is a topic above all topics, if it can be said, or a question of everyone above all issues, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, the SRS asks the Government and the President of the Republic, as well as the resolution ministry whether and when the official government of Serbia will refer the initiative to the UN Security Council to open a debate on the consistent implementation of Resolution 1244, in particular in the part where it is clearly specified, defines what should be restored to the Serbian population, i.e. citizens living in the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. or the fundamental status issue? Will Serbian officials also make a request for the return of members of the armed forces in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija in accordance with Resolution 1244? We, like many citizens, have heard more times that conditions have not been created for such a thing to take care of and worry about the lives of members of the armed forces, above all, members of the police and those who are in the Service for the Conservation of the Foreign Borders of Serbia, and we have forgotten one fact that the guarantee for the security of Serbian police officers in KIM territory is in charge of the UN Security Council. So didn't the Serbian Radicals, when we were against the reasoned Resolution 1244, convince us, some of them are present even now that we have no idea, that in fact the UN guarantees the safety of all members of the police of the Republic of Serbia is the UN's organisation to which the Republic of Serbia belongs, and we Serbian radicals were then saying, now we just remind you that these are just empty stories. On the other hand, we are witnessing individual or individual performances, and in the UN headquarters or forums covered by the UN organisation, and we have seen with what kind of pump the media in Serbia send or monitor individual performances, by losing reality in praises. The last time the president of the state came forward was instead of raising the question of the status of citizens living and living in KIM and returning them to the KIM area. The story went completely the other way. Whether or not the representatives of the Cypriot so-called Governments respect the Brussels Agreement or not. Obviously, in our Serbian radicals, that one method and one opinion prevails in the management and implementation of foreign policy, it is recognizable by a person named Sonja Licht. Sonja Licht is obviously a model and matrix led by Serbia's foreign policy, and is presented only by Serbia's official representatives, the foreign ministry or in the extreme case by the president of Serbia. It won't do us any good in Serbia. Remember that in recent days all bells are announcing the opening of the AP Vojvodina issue, because they consider the issue of recognition and membership of Kosovo so-called. The Republic of Kosovo brings to an end, opening and announcing the opening of the Vojvodina issue, and then the Rasga districts. We can play dumb, but it's a question that bothers all of us in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61145	Time. Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61146	Thank you. Dear citizens, my question concerns the last contingents of 1,000 cameras on the streets of Belgrade and is addressed to the MUP and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. We are witnessing that part of these cameras has already been set up and that, as Police Director Vladimir Rebic announced, part of these cameras will have the capacity to recognise traffic violations, and part of the cameras will be directed at preventing the most serious crimes, murders and other acts that disturb citizens. Today, in terms of the conditions, so to speak, underdeveloped technological literacy of citizens and insufficient information on data protection and privacy, and taking into account that this video surveillance will be conducted in collaboration with the Chinese company "Huaway", which the US administration has designated as someone who spys and collects data from its clients and considering that Serbia will be the only country besides China, in which such cameras will be installed, and I remind myself, these cameras not only have a license plate recognition function, but also the driver's faces, with justification we have the fear that such data, collected in this way, can be easily misused or not use the weightier word, can be used to spy on Serbian citizens. It's not in the citizens' interest for the whole city to be covered in cameras. Free people with honorable intentions have the right to walk freely through their city, not to be monitored for 24 hours. It was the motive of some distopian novels and it was supposed to stay there. This way I refer to the question of the MUP and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, which acts regulate this way of processing and collecting data? What measures have been taken to protect this data? And, since citizens must be informed of what places, when and who is filming them, we ask the Ministry to deliver the exact addresses of the positions of these cameras to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61147	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask the opposite question. What will the competent ministry do to cover all the traffic cameras, given the tragic events that are happening on our streets? It's also very important for the prevention of crime. Many murders have been committed on the streets and I believe that video surveillance can help, that perpetrators can be easily discovered and that these killings on the streets are reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the question of the Ministry of Education - what will the Ministry of Education, the Government and other competent authorities do to restore the damaged autonomy of the University of Belgrade, which happened by taking over the Rectorate by time students, and I don't think the rector is a sacred cow, and that should be said? I don't know if she's an older rector or students who've taken over this recession, but in any case, I believe that by entering a political leader, who she hasn't seen or thinks political leaders aren't members of political parties, that the autonomy of the university has been violated? With this in mind, I ask the ministry – what will it do to restore the autonomy of the Belgrade University and that the recession no longer be the political den of a political organisation, which calls itself "one of five million". The next question is what will the prosecution, the justice ministry and the authorities do against Rada Trajkovic, that is, to hear Mrs Rada Trajkovic and to provide the prosecution with information on who she is and when and where did he offer the footage of the murder of Serbian politician at KIM Oliver Ivanovic? This is very important, because there are such political forces in Serbia who think that the killings of Oliver Ivanovic are behind the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, while not allowing any reason to believe that Oliver Ivanovic, and I suppose justifiably, were killed by Albanians, or by those who had arrested him several times and against him, led the trial. I think they were behind the liquidation of Oliver Ivanovic, either liquidating him or also ordering his liquidation with the help of foreign services. Mrs. Rada Trajkovic is trying to brutally murder Oliver Ivanovic on the streets of Serbia and state authorities. With this in mind, I ask the prosecution, which is on its own, but it is a state body, what will it do to listen to Rada Trajkovic in the name of the truth and provide information about who he is and when he offered her videos of Oliver Ivanovic's murder, and why has she not told our state authorities before? Last question, and later on, about cross-border television. I'm asking Mr. Atlagic to help me. These are cross-border TVs. Cross-border television has the right to download, while downloading unchanged programs, without termination and insertion. These are three photos, simultaneously taken, of N1 television where there is no simultaneous download, that there are three different photographs and this is about asking the Ministry of Culture – what will they do, since they have the means to monitor the implementation of the law in the media field, on this issue to monitor the application of the law on false cross-border televisions, belonging to the company SBB, through which they pump money from the Republic of Serbia from the subscription paid by users, and it is a sum of 500m euros, which is pumped out through fake cross-border channels, and cross-border channels do not broadcast a programme in countries where they are registered, no media service, no re-emission? This is pure evidence, and in this regard, a certain artist is already performing a skill that I will deliver to the National Assembly and the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61149	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61150	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, if anyone in Serbia had any doubts about why Marko Bastac is a professional and what he can do, on Friday, September 27th, this year, the misunderstanding was removed. Marko Bastac is an expert in mud, and now everyone knows that and everyone in Serbia has shown that mudmaking is the only thing he knows and the only thing he is expert on. I am glad that the citizens of Serbia had the opportunity to see Bastac's expertise in a work that clearly showed that the mud was a policy he advocated and that the only thing he and his boss, Dragan Gilas, are offering citizens today is mud. What does that look like? This is the "Politika" of September 27th, he says, "The Bastac was making mud in front of the City Assembly. The representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, led by the president of the Old Town municipality, Marko Bastic, today at the beginning of the city parliament session, at the entrance to the City Assembly, poured more buckets and sacks of land, says – this is Belgrade's style of making it, Bastic commented as he poured the country out of the bucket and then poured water to make mud out of it." This is Bastac in action, you see how he professionally waters the land. Here's what's left after Mark Bastache, mud. Imagine this haughtiness and passion, on a working day, you come to work in front of a building where a session of the Belgrade City Assembly is to be held and you make mud, and for that you receive a salary from the citizens of Serbia, from the citizens of Belgrade in fact. After months of workblocks, citizens' possessions, signs breaking, fences, mistreatment of citizens, workers and everything else they've been doing for months, they outdone themselves on Friday, showed that mud is the height of politics and Mark Bastac and all those from the Alliance for Serbia and their chief, Dragan Gilas. I will remind the citizens that Marko Bastic, unfortunately, is still president of the Old Town municipality and is asking how it is possible in working time, instead of dealing with issues of importance for the citizens of the Old Town, instead of solving their problems, he is making mud. I have a question for the MUP about this, and that's -- was there a disturbance of public order and peace by Bastace and others who participated in this sad show? A question for the Belgrade Department of Public Police Affairs – has there been a violation of the municipal order and of the actions that are disrupting the city's general order? If it turns out that there has been a disturbance in public order and peace, i.e. a violation of the municipal order, I demand the authorities to react in order to stop this months-long harassment of citizens of Belgrade. The question arises – how long will a hysterical and aggressive minority harass all living in this city? They act like the law doesn't apply to them, they can break in wherever they want, they can block whoever they want, they can hack whoever they want. I know that Gilas, Bastic, Jeremic and everyone else in the Alliance for Serbia are used to being boastful and ossions, but we just have to get in the way of this madness once. Second, my question concerns, namely the Belgrade University Rector, how did she recognise members of the ruling parties in the recession building during the blockade and the same building allegedly by some students, who belong to some of the "One of the Five Million" organisations? So, in what way did she recognize them, by what methodology or maybe someone told her that she had to say, maybe someone pressured her, maybe someone led her astray? Why am I asking this? It is highly unlikely that she said that members of the ruling parties had fallen into the recession, and she noticed it only ten days after members of the political organisation "One of the five million", which represented students, occupied the building, blocked the entrance, for days allowed neither her nor the others to enter. What's even more amazing is that she allegedly didn't see any members of the opposition parties at the Rectorate. The whole of Serbia also saw Bosko Obradovic, and that Lutovac, and Marinika Tepic, and that Miljus, and all the other obscenities who didn't even hide that they were coming to support those students. They didn't even hide it, they introduced themselves as a political organisation, "One of the Five Million". It's clear to all of us that this is a political protest and that it's... (President: Thank you. I end up in one sentence. ... A sad political performance of the Alliance for Serbia and Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61151	Dear Members of Parliament, you have received the resignation of MP Miroslav Lazanski as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the committee of directors, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Miroslav Lazanski, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs: Hadji Milorad Stosic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Snezana Paunovic. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, we need to decide on proposals to supplement the agenda. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61152	Ladies and gentlemen, for who knows what time in this call, once again on behalf of the SRS MPs, I suggest you do something concrete and finally we all try to get to the truth together, to the facts and explore all the circumstances related to the murder of Zoran Djindjic. You know very well that in Serbia it is the custom for no affair to be resolved. There are many unexplained murders in Serbia. I believe that the murder of Zoran Djindjic remains unclear, because you will admit, unless the motives are known, unless those who are political officers of such a murder are known, and the murder of the Prime Minister in every country must be political murder, it is not about a neighbourly fight or family violence, that it is no doubt in the middle of a political murder. It is very strange that those who call most on Zoran Djindjic, although at the first moment, when I suggested the formation of this polling committee, were reportedly interested, as were the representatives of the current regime, that when the vote took place, they all bowed down and gave up and said, "Better be in some kind of fog, that it should be in the dust, and that Serbian citizens never really know what circumstances followed this murder." We of the SRS have even been accused of being involved in this murder at the time, because at the time we said that the state was the only state in the world that belonged to the mob. We have spoken clearly of the role of some people in bringing Zoran Djindjic to power and we, as we spoke the truth about him 20 years ago and when he was killed, and we are also talking about it today and in the name of Serbian citizens, asking to see who had all the political benefits, including the foreign embassies without whom I believe could not have happened without their green light, but to see whom everything Zoran Djindjic was worth more dead than alive. There are many people on the Serbian political scene, many who claim to be his comrades, many who, while he was alive, spoke of him the worst... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61153	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61154	This is another proposal that is already practically the entire assembly assembly, which will soon expire, I insist on sitting down and yet the ruling majority is deafening on my proposal. We Serbian radicals immediately after the elections said that some people sit in the National Assembly whose electoral lists have not crossed the 5% price and that they are sitting there primarily thanks to the will, not to the electoral will of Serbian citizens, but to the will of US Ambassador Scott, who thanks God these days leaves Serbia and we hope that someone who will still be a lesser bastard will come. You know very well that at least two electoral lists have not crossed the censorship, that the American ambassadors of the same evening, so an hour or two after closing the polling stations gathered and gathered those who are today called some pro-Western opposition in Serbia, are those who declare a boycott, which is nothing to be held accountable, and he has put pressure on the regime, and representatives of the regime in the RIK, because there you from the regime, both from the SNS, have an absolute majority, you have annulled the elections in some 15 polling stations and allowed some 15 polling stations to concentrate the votes of the pro-Western opposition, that both Tadic and Chad and Canak both vote for Boška Obradovic and DSS, in this way to disrupt and destroy Serbia's electoral will, and that those who do not comply with the constitution, i.e.e.e. with the envisioned Constitution of 5%, deserve trust in the coming national groups in the coming year. All along you claimed was that everything was fine, that the electoral system was perfect, that nothing should be determined. Your president even said that five million of those who are protesting are gathered to meet not one single request. However, as we can see, it is neither the first nor the last time, quickly changed the story and since even five million people will not meet any demands, he said he was ready to meet all requirements. You're financing some kind of opposition dialogue. The government has even formed a Working Group to change electoral conditions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61155	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61156	The Serbian Radical Party, which has been our parliamentary group since October last year, these days will be one year after we try to put on the agenda certain drafts of the law and, above all, because of the public, we want to draw attention that the assembly majority has no understanding of the proposals of the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly, i.e. The SRS, but that is why everyone else can demand that the National Assembly behave in one way or another, and those who are not in the National Assembly and some kind of NGO and some worn out European officials. All have the opportunity to in some way influence parliament's work, except for the main opposition party. We have proposed to amend the Family Law in this part, in this article, which predicts that Serbian children can be adopted by foreigners. Of course, if you put this on the agenda there would be more places for certain changes in view of what's been in the public for many years, and lately it's been so common that even though it's part of what's being found out in the public it's really a situation when it comes to children who, in one way or another, are left with no one to manipulate these children at the adoption, when adopted by strangers, when giving these children to foster families, and it's particularly scary that foster care is no longer a humanitarian and human thing because foster parents get about 50,000 dinars per month, and then we have absurd parents who are not employed, who don't have monthly incomes, are taken away from children to give these foster families. Isn't it more humane and fairer and fairer to these families, those mothers who are taken away by children and given to fosterers, to be given monthly aid of 50,000 dinars and to raise their children nicely, to have children living in their natural and normal environment, how it's only normal and natural, which is with their parents or parents, mother, father, anyway? The state doesn't think that way, and that's why we're starting with this proposal to start thinking about... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61157	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Vjerica Radeta's MP suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61158	Problems related to the selection of MPs and the functioning of the National Assembly were created in 2008 when a completely unconstitutional amendment to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament was made, and when it was impossible for the MP to put his mandate at the disposal of the party from whose lists the National Assembly was elected. As a result, here, 10, 11 years later, that we have daily changes in the number of parliamentary groups, the names of parliamentary groups, that we have a situation in the National Assembly that we have MPs who have been elected here from a single parliamentary list, and that now represent a party that was neither in the elections, which, for example, like the Vuk Jeremic party, is not even registered in accordance with the law, but literally bought by Vuk Jeremic who bought the party from Aleksic. So these things happen that have nothing to do with parliamentary democracy or democracy at all. We don't know today, here are some talks being prepared, and it's not clear whether they're going to be talking to parliamentary groups in that original composition, convening the National Assembly, or whether everyone is going to be able to, as there are various groups that have formed MP groups and that they are now representing whom? Whom can he represent, for example? Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who was elected as president of the DSS to the National Assembly, meanwhile expelled from the DSS, has impertinently and immorally maintained her mandate and is trading with that mandate, trading. She went to some independent supposed MPs, so I guess now she's at Vuk Jeremic's, is he also vice president of the party, and she's giving herself the right to say that she speaks as a national envoy in the name of, again, in the name of who? We, if we wish not to see the future of the Sande Raskovic and the other flyers who have become such a common term in the people, all talk about flyers, only the MPs do not want to get rid of the flyers, by accepting the SRS proposal and simply allowing what it says in the Constitution – the MP can offer his mandate as a list from which he was elected as an MP. So, constitutional formulation, that's all we're asking, and you just say no, so you'll have problems like we have in the National Assembly today, whether you admit them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61159	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, who is abstentioned, has a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against - none of the abstentioned - has a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an unprecedented terror of Serbs has been going on for more than 10 years by the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro. Today, Serbs are exposed to this kind of harassment and inciting themselves from their jobs, and are asked to give up everything that is Serbian. Out of the total number of those who plead as Serbs in Montenegro, only 2% of them are employed in the authorities of the state administration. It is precisely them who are asked to give up everything, otherwise they and their children, to buy and move out of Serbia's Montenegro, which usurper Milo Djukanovic, along with his friends, has secretly designed as a state where there will be nothing that is Serbian. They are in trouble, because many of them have, because of everything that has happened to them, and unfortunately they have both lost their jobs and their family members, applied for citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which our country's constitution and the law that is valid allows them, just like the Serbs from Republika Srpska, and such demands from Republika Srpska have so far been over 50,000, as they have been officially announced in our consulate, both in Banja Luka and in other places where offices are opened. That is why it is necessary to make a change, we are talking to the MUP, the Law on Citizenship, and that this process is being speeded up during the discussion, because the administrative barrier in this case, the difficulty of making the decision about getting that paper that everything is fine, that someone meets the conditions for getting citizenship, so first to recognise the state of Serbia as its queen, and then to bring all necessary documents, sometimes it takes a few years. We're asking why? All these Serbs I have now talked about in earlier explanations of this proposal and how they have a problem burning under their feet, because they cannot resolve their issue of existence and members of their families. It is therefore necessary to approach the amendment of this member of the law and to limit the deadline by a state administration in which it will be resolved positively or negatively, but in 99.9% and more, it is positive, because they meet all these conditions, in order to save their family members as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61161	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. No proposal accepted. Parliament's Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61162	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted amendments to the Law on the transplantation of human organs. Amendments are proposed, i.e. the suspension of Article 23 of this Act. Amendments to the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities have been proposed with the aim of abolishing the assumed consent of every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as the assumed consent leaves a huge space for abuse and can lead to trafficking in human organs, although this law explicitly prohibits it, although it is treated as a serious crime. Another negative effect of assumed consent that can cause major damage is the relationship between the patient and the doctor, or trust between the doctor and the patient himself. The law stipulates that organs are taken from a dead person, unless that person objected orally or in writing before he died. In this way, there is absolutely no guarantee that such a person will, at that moment, convey information to anyone whether he wants to or does not want to be a donor. It's also very discussionable and the question of brain death, because the man in the brain death phase is practically still alive and the organs can't be taken from faces that aren't alive. Article 23. The human organ transplant law, whose alterations we are looking for, is violated by Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that physical and psychological integrity is inviolable and that no one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment, nor subject to medical or scientific examinations without their free consent. Also, this Article 23 is a broken member of Constitution 23, which says that human dignity is uncut and that everyone is obliged to respect and protect it, and that everyone has the right to freely develop a person unless it violates the rights of others. Therefore, the proposed amendments are in the direction of abolishing the assumed consent to the donation of human organs in the event of death and the solutions offered in Article 23. The bill of law is not... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61163	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -12, against - no one, abstention - no one. I'm guessing it's not a suggestion. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61164	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments and amendments on border control, and I ask that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, were defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and that the AP KIM borders towards the rest of their declaration as international borders. We in the Serbian Radical Party are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born on KIM, who spent his entire life on a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. If God does, there will be Serb trumpets again through the Gjilans and we will play the famous Gnjilanka. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory, while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians who, you see, the Republic of Croatia is also showing hidden inspiration towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why I think the adoption of a law like this that I've proposed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61165	You're way out of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 13 MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61166	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children. Financial support to a family with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to raise them on their own, and the number of such families is growing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which has been defined as having the right to a child's and parent's allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The extension of the period of payment of the parental allowance, namely: for the third child until the age of 18, instead of the 10th year of life; for the fourth child until the 18th year of life, instead of the 10 years of life so far, and for the fifth and the next child for whom the right to a parental allowance could not be achieved, until the age of 18, would provide partial financial security to families with more children. This proposal for change and addition is comprehensive and accurate in the part that is regulated by children's and parental supplements. The adoption of these amendments, proposed by the SRS, would put an outside force of the discriminatory provisions of the applicable law, which are defined as having the right to children's and parental allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the future, whether it will continue as usual or make a permanent redistribution of funds, and by finally stopping funding various NGOs and defining the money for the payment of a children's and parental allowance. In the way the Serbian Radical Party proposes, these changes and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the adoption of these amendments and additions, would provide a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We witness the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia, from Leskovac and other municipalities of Jablanic and Pcinj County, young people, young couples with small children leave. Those who leave will surely never return, but all efforts should be made to keep them there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61167	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for -14 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on additions to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no better time or occasion than to send this solemn session of the National Assembly to our volleyball players on the won title of Europe's champion, who, along with our volleyball, have made Serbia the greatest volleyball force, and not just Europe. My intervention concerns the Law on Psychoactive Substances, which is very important because this law regulates issues of exceptional importance for the health and safety of our citizens. I asked for the addition of a member who reads: “If there is a period between confiscation, i.e. the collection of drugs for a period of more than six months shall be subject to mandatory sampling and then a qualitative chemical analysis of the total amount of drugs, in order to prevent or use possible abuses for illicit purposes, both production, transport, use, confiscation and confiscation, as well as its storage, storage and destruction of drugs that are not required for further use by a strictly controlled process, protocol and procedure." I must point out that one of humanity's greatest challenges in the 21st century is just fighting drugs. We hear every day about the great successes in this fight, the seizure and confiscation of large quantities of drugs, say Mexico, Spain, Colombia, six months ago in Germany, then a ton and a ton of cocaine that Dunav threw at the Romanian port of Constanta, until the biggest seizure in history, on July 18th in Philadelphia was seized a 15-ton boat worth more than a billion dollars of cocaine. I wouldn't say all of this if it wasn't for our people, a certain sailor, Ivan Djurasevic. We don't do well, we don't do well enough in the fight against this evil, so individual arrests, confiscate large amounts of drugs almost don't reflect on our drug market. A few days ago in Zajecar were arrested father and son, a police officer, who are involved in drug dealing, which speaks enough for himself. The Serbian Radical Party believes that all together... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61169	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 12 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61170	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we consider the current demographic situation in all parts of Serbia, regardless of whether it is rural or urban areas, Serbia unfortunately remains without a single municipality of about 35 to 40,000 inhabitants annually. Our villages remain empty, and the ageing population is somewhere on average of 70 and over. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed, as many times as possible, to find a bill on fosterment in agriculture and rural development in the draft agenda. The adoption of this proposal would significantly improve the position of our agricultural producer, as well as the development of this economic branch. This would show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the RES, cares about our agricultural producer and agricultural products, which are certainly healthier than the products of the countries that impose Chapter 11, and less, by importing such and similar products, we will raise doubts about the quality and presence of both chemical and genetically modified organisms. With this proposal, we want the agricultural producer to reduce production costs and the market position to improve. By reducing the lower limit of milk per quarter, the premium will be reduced from 1,500 litres to 1,000 liters so that the agricultural producer with the difficult conditions of production, for example, where food and machinery are expensive, can exercise the right to a premium. Also, in Article 15(4). We propose that the dairy premium be increased from seven dinars to ten dinars so far. Then, in Article 18, paragraph 1. The law on incentives in rural development to change the amount of basic incentives for plant production by increasing the existing solution that provides that the amount of incentives per hectare is up to 6,000 dinars to a minimum of 9,000 dinars. By accepting this proposal, farmers would also be more willing and willing to invest as much as possible in agricultural production and thus to repair their material position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61171	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be completed with a point – a bill to put an end to the law on enforcement and security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61172	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the fair and effective execution for the SRS is at the level of principle, i.e. principles. If that were the case, we've shown that the way we've submitted the bill more than ten times is to put it outside the law on security and enforcement. So, since 15 October last year, we first submitted the draft law to put aside the law on enforcement and security, and since it did not bring fruit, since the ruling majority was not prepared to accept this law, the SRS legal team, respecting judicial practice, respecting what we could hear from citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the ground, we have made a proposal for a law on security and enforcement that will soon be in the process. Somewhere before the summer break was on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security and Enforcement Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where it intervened in 177 members, and we have now proposed a new law that has a total of 270 members, where in a fair way both debtors and creditors are trying to protect themselves. So, in its proposal, the SRS has no intention of absorbing the debtors, but only has the intention of trying in a fair and fair way to protect the debtors whom public executioners very often consider and put them in line with criminals, which in no way can be true and be so. Very often, the perpetrators acted as harrakes. For Serbian citizens, besides wartime events, besides natural disasters, the law on enforcement and security adopted for the first time in 2011, and then in 2015, the first bill was passed by the ruling majority headed by the DS. Serbian citizens, as well as members of the SRS, expected that when changes and additions of this law were on the agenda in 2015, it would be at least as we proposed today, but that was not the case. We have collected more than 100,000 signatures in our activities from citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have supported the new draft law on enforcement and security, and in about 20 days, the SRS will publish the bill in a special edition of "Great Serbia" which all those who have given support for putting into the assembly procedure of this law will be able to see what the SRS is proposing. Until a fair and good law of execution is passed, we will not give it up. The execution is not only a mere profession and form, the execution is also the skill of those perpetrators who need to try to get the simplest way to execute, to keep the debtor in line with his obligations, to make the trustee compensated, but with the least damage to the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61173	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 11 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks, it is a very sensitive area in which the situation is more recently not how it should be and therefore I think it is necessary to intervene urgently in this area. In fact, today we have a situation where everyone writes textbooks, betrays everyone and literally, each one makes their choice. The monopoly on the student market in Serbia has Croatian and Slovenian companies, and of course, we are not SRS against it, we are not for one publishing house to hold a monopoly, whoever it is, but we believe there has to be an Bureau of textbooks, and the state should help that institution that has proved itself in earlier times, that it stands on its own feet. This specifically refers to textbooks that process national culture and national history. These are things that are vital to every society and every nation, and so on in our case. We see today that Serbian cultural heritage is being kidnapped, that historical facts and many things are being falsified, and we must not look at it, like this, calm heads, because time is passing and these attempts by our enemies will eventually yield results. We have seen the Cypriots kidnap the Serbian church, the Albanian flag is prominent at one of the oldest Serbian churches in Novi Brdo. On the other hand, Croatians kidnap the cultural, historical heritage of Serbs, adopt dinar songs, dinar cars, etc. That's what they do in Montenegro. We had a situation where Matija Bećkovic, one of the largest Serbian poets, wrote in a poem thirty years ago, when he spoke of Montenegrins, said "The Gorei Wreath" we memorized that we had it when they took it away from us. We now see that this is exactly what is happening, that everything that is Serbian is hijacked in Montenegro, and of course, and Negos as an express Serbian writer. So, there must be order in this area, because not everyone is allowed to issue textbooks, and we need to take away a license for all those who have so far published textbooks in which there were these things that I was talking about, and we have textbooks not only from the national culture, the history of which...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61175	Thank you. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 12. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on traffic safety on the roads. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement another law, it is a law that literally and literally concerns every citizen of Serbia, whether he is a driver, a pedestrian, all of us are involved in traffic in one way or another. Namely, in Article 47(7). The Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads which regulates the crossing of intersections there are certain contradictions, illogicalities and inconsistencies, which lead to great confusion with the driver, and in particular lead to confusion when a car accident occurs, where the competent and professional persons are literally not in a situation to determine the culprits of the accident. We have exactly cases where we have many such examples, traffic experts interpret this thing in one way, lawyers, law experts, it interprets it in another way, and basically, this only takes one minor intervention to change the position of Article 47 of this law. Namely, he's talking about regulating the traffic championship at intersections and there's a saying when there's no light signalling then only the right-hand rule and the left-hand turn rule and there's nothing controversial about it, but it's a controversial thing else. When it does a yellow blinking light, there's a doubt then it's in function, so literally light traffic signalling is in function and then the rule of the right and left turns is out and these are the things that need to be changed in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61177	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61178	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS, I submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. Every year, the Republic of Serbia loses 35 to 38 thousand people and if this continues for 40 years, we will have three million less people than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have problems with infertility, we come to the conclusion that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act is extremely important, and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are going through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to get a commission to enter the process. As someone who's been through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood and that they feel lonely and helpless. Diagnostics should be easy to quickly and affordable, which is absolutely not the case right now. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess in individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of RFO. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedical assisted fertilisation by RFZO as well as enable the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation with frozen material couples who have a problem with male infertility as well as couples who have frozen medical material before entering the malignancies treatment process. Also, make it possible to finance the costs of RFO for freezing and freezing material. To enable biomedically assisted fertilisation to those couples that have already been realized as parents naturally. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if there was a problem in the meantime, and if the only way to get them back as parents is to become biomedically assisted insemination, and there are few such couples. This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 63. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this bill's amendment due to an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61179	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put on the vote by Zoran Zivkovic – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, proposed by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting to vote a proposal to supplement the agenda of Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote, no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic ads in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations of individuals. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted in favour. Ambassador Gjorge Komlenski suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision to educate the commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. Does MP George Komlensky want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61180	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, 20 years since NATO's criminal aggression on Serbia's country has passed, and we still don't have a codified list of all the victims that they've produced by their bombing. I believe it is a debt and what at least this Assembly can do when it comes to members of the Yugoslav Army, members of Serbia's MUP, and civilians who have lost their lives or have been wounded during this aggression to determine an absolutely undeniable, accurate and precise number of them, to record their names permanently, the places where events occurred and what consequences occurred. I'll remind you of an old saying that says, "A people who don't learn their history will repeat themselves until it comes to their senses or disappears. "We have a very ugly experience in the near past that Serbian genocide victims in Jasenovac, Jadovno and all other caves and strategic sites are being denied, diminished as someone likes to say, minimized, and soon there is a risk of hearing that Jasenovac was actually a child's nursery, only we didn't realize it. I think the final moment is for all of these records and data that exist across different ministries to exist in different books that some of our good citizens wrote, but by segments, they also codify, by the assembly, as the highest representative home of this people, once and for all, they find that no one can ever, for a hundred years, question the existence of any victim that occurred during NATO aggression and abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61181	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions - has, in total - 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production, Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61182	Thank you. This is a relatively old proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Production, Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, but it is now up to date in view of the situation we also have in the media and the affair, if I may say so, and may, in relation to certain phenomena, concerning the export of equipment and weapons from Serbia to third countries. This is not the place to explain the reasons for this law, to get into the details of this affair, but it is certainly not the first time, but it is certainly not the last to mention some names of the close government, close to the ministers and officials of this government as well as the ruling party. In this respect, of course, the word should be given by the competent authorities and I expect, regardless of the pressure that they will do, but the meaning of my law, my proposal, or the amendment of this law, is preventive, regardless of who dad, brother, son and so on, that this sensitive area, this sensitive area, is not left to improvisation or to the possibilities of abuse, as it was likely or will be. In other words, the meaning of this law and the proposal to amend the law is to basically prohibit, i.e. to prevent privatisation in this domain, in this portfolio, including foreign property, but privatisation at all. What do we need intermediaries in the sale of military equipment and weapons when we have these factories, we have companies that have been working and working successfully for years and they've worked until there were no privates around them? Not getting into whether these privates are closer to this or that party, to this or that set of personalities. So, the purpose of this proposal is to keep it in the jurisdiction of the state, the whole resor of the production of weapons and equipment, if there is anything, although I am generally inclined to other areas, such as education, to put an end to it a little bit, and to put an end to the order and a little bit of suspension of this wild and obviously uncontrollable introduction of privatisation, but when it comes to weapons and military equipment, when it comes to this sensitive sphere, I don't think there's room or foreign ownership, capitalization or anything like that, because as I said, our dedicated industry has so far functioned very well, all these years and decades, or privatisation, particularly suspicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61183	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does the MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Vukadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61184	Thank you. You know that I speak from the scene, this time I have risen from the pitet to Mr Ivanovic and to his victim and to his tragic death and to everything he has done for life for the Serbian people and for the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. I wasn't a political thinker with Mr. Ivanovic, I didn't agree with him in many things, but never, not just me, but all my political friends who lived there in Kosovo and Metohija, in other words living still in northern Kosovo and Metohija, never had an ugly word to say against him. So, even when you agreed with him and when you didn't, it was an example man who could find a common language and talk to his brothers, and we know that it's not always easy to talk to brothers and fellow Americans, Albanians and representatives of the international community. Killing Oliver Ivanovic is a difficult blow, I would say, for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija both for Serbian politics and for the Serbian people. No matter what's almost two years away, it must not remain unexplored. So my suggestion is, my initiative is, or ours, I'm sorry, I'm just explaining, that a committee of inquiry is being formed to determine the facts of this murder. There's a lot of speculation, there's a lot of rumors, there's a lot of ugly things that get tangled up about that case. I think the ruling party and the ruling majority and the government of this country should be the most interested in establishing the truth about it, given that there is doubt and that doubts have been expressed by the authorities or some parts of the government in the event. I'm not getting into who's right, but I think this place, this home, this Assembly and the polling committee is somehow the most measured to coordinate efforts and demonstrate the good will and authority and the Parliament and this country and this people so that Oliver Ivanovic's murder doesn't go unexplored and unpunished, no matter where it goes and in which direction it goes in this investigation. The authorities are doing what they do, which is their job, but I think this is too important a thing and too tragic a thing that should remain a shadow of doubt about the involvement of certain parts, as I said to the authorities or organs of this country. That's why I say, I repeat, I end up, I think the government should also be the ruling majority here most interested in adopting such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61185	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does the MP, Alexander Stevanovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61186	Thank you, Vice President. The SMS Group proposes to amend the KZ member, i.e. more specifically, Article 246a in the positions, i.e. in points 1 and 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 23 guarantees that each individual in the Republic of Serbia has the freedom of life choices that do not endanger the rights of others, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 246a, we have noticed one illogical fact regarding the fact that almost a million people in Serbia who were once enjoyrs or occasional users of psychoactive hemp are declaring themselves to people who are engaged in criminal activities, even though enjoying psychotic hemp in any way does not endanger anyone but themselves to a degree that is no greater than enjoying, for example, alcohol or some other substances that can be bought on every corner. We have also noticed one indifference in Article 246a point 1 where it is said that one who illegally holds a smaller amount of psychoactive substance for his own use can be punished by a fine or a prison of up to three years, and can be freed from punishment. So someone for the same act can be released, and someone can be punished for three years. Our proposal was to make an exception for those who hold psychoactive hemp for their own use up to 15 grams, i.e. those who hold psychoactive hemp, i.e. its oil in the amount of 15 milliliters for personal needs of treatment. We believe that this avoids completely unnecessary criminalisation. At least one million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who once committed a criminal offence under KZ provisions for which they could or did not have to be charged and punished with fines or even fines for up to three years. We think it is unnecessary to punish adult people who have their own choices, who don't necessarily have to be a good choice for them, but everyone has the right to make choices that are stupid, bad or other people incomprehensible. It's the basis of adulthood. We also believe that this would free the resources of the MUP, that instead of engaged in such trivial activities, it can deal with serious crimes and thus raise the general level of security in the Republic of Serbia to a higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61187	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, abstentioned—any one, of the 144 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 25 September 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61188	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the esteemed chairman, respected citizens of our country, have been more than a year since the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children was adopted, and it has been a little more than a year since I submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a proposal to amend and supplement the law, with the aim of the National Assembly, in the right sense of that word, to worry and address the problems of mothers who had the opportunity to face one and how unfavorable law. We were given this year on several occasions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Minister, Minister Djordjevic, that this bill of amendments and amendments to the law would be found on the daily Wednesday of the Assembly and here was the last announcement just in connection with the autumn session. As we had the opportunity yesterday to hear from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the Assistant Minister of Labour, unfortunately, informed us that during this autumn's session by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resoring Ministry will not be sent a proposal to amend and supplement this, I am free to say the disastrous law. So, today, I ask you to support my initiative or the initiative of any other MP who will propose that this law be re-pronounced by the National Assembly and that we talk again about the problems of maternity in Serbia. Who does this law hurt the most? So this law is the most damaging to women who have been made as mothers, and back then have no 18 months of work experience, the most damaging to those mothers who have only a few months of work experience, and with that they receive compensations that are several hundred dinars, several thousand dinars and so on, therefore, compensations that are below all human dignity. The law also affects those mothers who have been encouraged to deal with entrepreneurship in Serbia. The law also damages those mothers who have decided to deal with agriculture in Serbia. This law, unfortunately, damages me, and it seems to me that this is something we should not have allowed, with all due respect to all other women, so those mothers who gave birth to disabled children in Serbia. So, dear colleagues, I ask you as responsible, first of all, citizens and representatives of citizens, today support my initiative to find this proposal to amend and supplement the law on the agenda of the Assembly. And I will, like every time, ask you in this way to support the mothers in Serbia and tell them that Moms are not alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61189	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -12, against—no one, abstentioned—any one, out of 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 17 August 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? Here you go, fellow Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61190	I thank you again, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative was adopted in 1994 and has since not undergone any changes. What's wrong with this law? So, the procedure by which citizens have the opportunity to submit national initiatives and to even ask the National Assembly and congregations in Serbia what they think of their initiatives. In the meantime, we are witnessing that there has been a modernisation of Serbia, however many of us may have opposed it and that what was characteristic of the time this law was adopted, which is one large state, it has been significantly reduced. The procedures under this law remain identical. It still takes 30,000 citizens' signatures over a period of seven days to gather to launch a debate in the Assembly, but we still do not have an exact solution to how long it has been left to the National Assembly to make proposals coming from citizens known. I often used the initiative launched by the Tijana Juric Foundation in connection with amendments to the Criminal Code, as it was current at the time. It is one example of the citizens' initiative, no matter what we think of such a bill. The initiative collected 160,000 citizens' signatures and waited a long time in the congregation procedure until it came to the Assembly's agenda. Such initiatives in Serbia have many. The last among initiatives is an initiative for a practical ban or to deny realising the content in a period when it should not be available to children and young people in Serbia. So, regardless of what our thoughts on this amendment and the addition of the law are, it's simply disrespect for the citizens, over 40,000 citizens signed this initiative and asked us to plead on this initiative. This does not necessarily mean that we will opt positively for such an initiative or negatively, but it is a shame and an expression of great disrespect for the citizens that the National Assembly refuses to do so. Among other things, the proposal that I propose to the National Assembly also states that the National Assembly has an obligation to make known within the next 60 days from the time it receives a national initiative in the assembly procedure on the proposal it has received. So, I ask you, colleagues, to support my proposal to amend and supplement the law in accordance with the modern time in which we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61191	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - five, against—no one, abstentioned—any one of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61192	Thank you. Let me begin by expressing my gratitude and recognition to Dr Dragana Djordjevic, a young colleague from the University of Belgrade Institute of Physics, who was elected a member of the European Youth Association on Friday, and thus obtained recognition from the most excellent researcher in Europe. I think she deserves a round of applause from the MPs in the Assembly, because besides the athletes, recently mentioned by counterpart Bojic, and scientists make a significant contribution to raising the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. This is also proof that the University of Belgrade, regardless of certain situations that can be interpreted in one way or another, is not more common to any party, etc., but is an institution where a number of young, medieval and older researchers who are internationally recognised are gathered. Other information refers to, 10 days ago, I was a participant in the marking of the 75-year anniversary of the Volgograd State Agricultural University, whose honorary professor, and on that occasion, immediately before that, I sent three copies of the screen, three pictures of Miroslav Radovic, from the "Treptih", dedicated to World War I. I also sent a monograph of bilingual, Serbian-Russian, on the topic - Serbia and Russia's history in the Great War, and thus the Russians showed that the larger Serbs than Serbs, because at the Centre of National Cultures, a whole wall was released and they posted images of Miroslav Radovic, Triptih - Blue Tomb, there away and Pručni Zoro. The flag of the Republic of Serbia is also above it. Thank you for not being able to express yourself here last year. When it comes to the proposal for a declaration against genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms, I have been unsuccessfully trying for three years to promote the need to adopt in the Republic of Serbia the declaration that was unanimously adopted in 136 municipalities and cities of about 7,000 council members. Is the National Assembly a representative of Serbian citizens or a vote against them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61193	Thank you, Professor. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, no one, abstentioned, none, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general, I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 16 of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Consideration of the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 10 September 2019; 2. A proposal to amend the Commission's decision to elect members to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on Serbia's citizens' health, as well as the environmental impact, with a special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. We're going to work on a set agenda. The first item of the agenda - CONSIDERATION OF THE REGULAR YEARAL REPORT OF THE REFERENCE REFERRED TO IN 2018. The year submitted by the trustee for the protection of equality (number 02-467/19 of 15). MARTA 2019 Year), with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Human and Mankind Rights and Gender Equality of 10. This Regulation shall enter into force on YEAR According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that she has been invited to attend the session by Branko Jankovic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61194	Dear Members, you have received a regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018, as well as a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality since 10 September of this year. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the Regular Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018 with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of 10 September 2019. I give my word to Branko Jankovic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61195	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs and MPs, is ahead of you the 9th regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality behind which another year of continued and intensive work stands. I am pleased that this report is being considered in the first session of the autumn session and on the international day of the old people that we are marking together here, at 1400 hours, by opening an exhibition on intergenerational solidarity. Our report contains a review of the situation in the area of protection of equality and recommendations of measures to improve the situation and eliminate unequal treatment based on some personal property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. During 2018, we handled 1,407 cases, of which 947 complaints, 300 recommendations for equality, one case for protection against discrimination, four proposals to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, three criminal, one criminal application, 17 public warnings and 24 statements. For 88 cases, it is proposed to initiate the standstill procedure. Nine initiatives to amend the rules have been addressed, as well as 37 opinions on draft laws and other acts. Unfortunately, a large number have gone through an emergency procedure and have not been delivered to us, and it is good that this year it has stopped such a practice. According to our recommendations in individual cases, discrimination was done in 78.2%. As for the so-called so-called. general recommendations for the achievement of equality addressed to public authorities and other persons were made in 98.2%. However, what I must say concerns that some media and certain public figures do not act on our recommendations, and that is, when it comes to discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, while according to recommendations that are done in the case of persons with disabilities, they are fully treated. The most complaints were filed because of discrimination based on disability, more than a quarter, then age, half and birth, and based on health conditions, and below 6% of complaints about discrimination based on nationality, marital and family status, sexual orientation. With regard to the areas of social relations in which complaints are most often filed, in the first place, almost a third concerned the provision of public services or the use of facilities and surfaces, secondly the area of work and employment, followed by procedures before public authorities, the area of social protection, and then public information and media. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints have been filed against the public authorities. The disability as a basis for discrimination has been at the top of the number of complaints filed for years. All research, including our practice, shows that people with disabilities are mostly discriminated against about the accessibility of public facilities, surfaces, services, information, communication. One reason to increase the number of complaints is to explore civil society organisations on the accessibility of polling stations in the territory of several municipalities. On our proposal, the process was successfully completed by mediation and joint agreement on accessibility in the next city elections. The problem of a complete solution to business ability, employment, access to education, health and social protection services can be identified among the challenges, and lack of attention has been paid to reproductive health, but also to parental and family rights. The age is second in number of complaints, with the largest number referring to child discrimination, especially the lack of personal escorts and pedagogical assistants, i.e. to provide adequate support in the education system. The increase in complaints over child discrimination has been influenced by the application of the new Financial Support Act to the family with children, which is why we have submitted a number of initiatives after the analysis for change, as well as proposals for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, because this is a systemically important law for population and social policy. Certain provisions have made it difficult for families to have disabilities, such as for example to exercise the right to maternity leave and leave due to child care and the right to add to the assistance and care of another person. In addition, we also raised the issue of constitutionality of provisions relating to the position of employees of women who before the use of maternity leave had greater profits also in relation to the position of farmers. In the meantime, we have received an answer from the government that a task force has been formed and that the amendments to this law are being made. Citizens over 50 years of age have been instructed in complaints that they have been discriminated against in the employment and work process, being deployed to lower jobs, having been cancelled their work contract or not being completed only because of years of life and inaccessible relationship with so-called. The older workers. We have also addressed an initiative to amend and supplement the Social Protection Act, which concerned the relaxation of conditions for the exercise of the rights of our oldest citizens to material support in rural and rural areas, given that, due to the prescribed restrictions on land area from 0.5 to one hectare, depending on the individual case, a large number cannot exercise the right to monetary, social assistance or the achievement of this right is difficult for them, and they need assistance, which is particularly affected by the ageing households. Unfortunately, our oldest citizens, despite their many problems, are most rarely addressed, so that I believe that by working together, especially with you, the MPs, we could work in the coming period to improve their position, given our unfavourable demographic structure, but also our expressed commitment and concern to all of you, regardless of political membership. Gender, as a basis of discrimination, has been at the top of the number for years, most often addressed by women, saying that after returning from maternity leave they were fired or deployed to lower jobs or could not progress. In women in the public administration, this absence, or motherhood, has affected their legal status. The analysis showed that the application of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees is far more affected by women because of the incomparably higher number of women in this sector. This was addressed to us by trade unions, pointing to an insufficient number of public service employees, especially in the social and health care system, and therefore it is very important that our initiatives to put aside this law have received positive answers from the government to do so. When it comes to discrimination, women are the problem of both family and partner violence, despite the application of the Law on protection against domestic violence and the effects it gives in practice. In the report year, we pointed out that violence and discrimination prompted hate speech, most often exposed to women and members of the LGBT population, which is why we issued more warnings. I am pleased that the topic of sexism, harassment and violence against women implementers will soon be discussed here in the highest place in the upcoming meeting of the Interparliamentary Union Assembly, whose hosts you are hosting, which I congratulate you on. The fifth basis of discrimination is the state of health, and complaints referred to an unequal treatment in relation to the relationship and treatment of children with autism, the position of people suffering from melanoma, hepatitis, persons living with HIV and AIDS. For citizens who are suffering from severe and incurable diseases, we have referred the recommendation to the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, which refers to the improvement of palitative care precisely because of the quality of life of patients and the preservation of dignity in the last days of life. For a strategic lawsuit we filed two years ago for discrimination based on a medical condition for a woman suffering from leukemia, we still don't have a judicial decision. Discrimination based on nationality and ethnic origin is the sixth basis, which is less than earlier years, which speaks of improving the position of national minorities and preparedness to continuously improve their position. Of course, we do not dispute the existence of individual infringements of rights and individual incidents that we condemn as a competent authority because we should not allow as a responsible society any national minority to be placed in an unequal position. It remains the largest number of complaints over discrimination against the Roma national minority, especially children in education, as well as employment. The following complaints brought about by discrimination based on sexual orientation and for years the largest number has been related to the field of public information and media, and complaints are mainly filed by civil society organisations. The analysis suggests that sensationalism, discriminatory attitudes, hate speech and offensive reporting remain in the media and in the public space. Appeals based on membership in political, trade union and other organisations are filed primarily by trade union organisations, because of the position and failure to exercise the rights of their members. In carrying out evidence in some proceedings or in filing complaints, it has been observed that sometimes applicants or witnesses point out the great problem of giving priority to members of the ruling political parties by stating that they feel fear of the consequences of the application, which is why they give up on the follow-up of the proceedings or do not file complaints. This practice also confirms relevant research so that it should be changed in the coming period since a large number of young people unfortunately do not want to deal with politics. The law prohibiting discrimination also defines property status as the basis for discrimination. Poor citizens are also perceived as one of the three most discriminated social groups in research, but the number of complaints on this basis is negligiblely small, so here I see you, MPs, who are often in contact with citizens, as the most important partners in the fight for their better position and better quality of life. Last year we held nearly 800 trainings, seminars, conferences, debates, round tables and workshops for labour inspectors, police officers, local self-government employees, health and social protection institutions, in the education system, for journalists, judges. We continued the practice of conducting different research, and this year two were conducted – the public authority's attitude towards discrimination in Serbia and the media's attitude towards discrimination in Serbia. More information can be found in the report. When it comes to our co-operation with state authorities in the National Assembly last year, we presented our report on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. Our initiative held a session of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs with the presence of a civil sector on which the current practice of deprivement of business ability was crucial. Our practice is presented at the Conference of Women's Parliamentary Networks in the framework of Panela – discrimination on the labour market. Last year we established an annual award for units of local self-government – municipality, city of equal opportunities. The first winners of this award are the first place - Gajin Han municipality, second place - the town of Novi Sad, third – Srljig municipality. For the fourth time, the award was awarded for best media texts and contributions to promoting equality and tolerance. Also, on our initiative, with the support of the Ministry of Education in all our primary and secondary schools for the International Day of Tolerance, the first hour was held is dedicated to tolerance, mutual respect and understanding. The international plan continues to improve co-operation with international organisations, especially with the European network of all equality bodies Equinet and Ekriem. We continued activities within the framework of the regional co-operation we initiated nearly four years ago when a statement was signed in Belgrade on the co-operation of nine equality bodies in Southeast Europe. In 2018, we continued the projects: "Live Library", the National Competition of Students of All Law Schools in Serbia through the simulation of trials in the field of discrimination, participation in the Belgrade Marathon through support of people with disabilities called "Right to the Goal" and we set up a platform for the organisation of panels of young high school students from our country. The 2018 Budget Law sets out the funds for the programme "Improvement and Protection of Human and Minority Rights and Freedoms" of 91,264,000 dinars. By including unused funds from the previous year, the budget available for the programme amounted to 112,734,320 dinars. We spent 79% of the resources available, and otherwise for the last three years we had savings that we achieved with a careful availability without reducing the quality of work. Finally, based on the complaint procedures and the relevant data, we gave 97 recommendations, but I won't, for the sake of time, name them all individually, because it seems to me that they're all important, I'm just going to introduce them for a little while. Some refer to the need to adopt strategic documents, such as the Strategy to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, mental health, prevention and protection of children from violence and others, and one number refers to the necessity of implementing measures to reduce poverty, improve equality, retaining youth in the country, improve the situation of older people, promote culture, tolerance, gender equality and intergenerational solidarity. It is necessary to work on reducing hate speech in public space, including all social actors, and special attention should be paid to responsible media reporting. It is necessary to take measures to improve the situation of persons with disabilities, such as amending rules governing the depravation of business capacity, providing adequate support and developing services at local level, providing conditions for the availability of basic, secondary and high education, especially children from sensitive social groups, taking measures to ensure that the composition of public authorities corresponds to the national composition of the population in certain areas. It is necessary to improve the system of social protection and financial support for families with children in order to overcome life’s difficulties, create conditions to meet the basic needs of the poorest individuals and families and ensure equal participation of women in all areas and places of decision, especially at local level with a special emphasis on women’s economic empowerment and their protection against labour market discrimination, with measures to coordinate labour and parenting. As you could see from the data in the report and that we presented, in the coming period ahead there are different challenges that we, as a society together, need to overcome. By using the law prescribed powers, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality as a competent state institution for the protection of equality which is the cornerstone of every democratic society and the condition of achieving all other human rights, continues his work to protect the discrimination of every individual and social group, and we believe that a strong and dedicated national institution for equality that does its job despite sometimes the sensitivity of this issue and without the calculator it protects, of course with the support of the National Assembly, respect and co-operation, is certainly the best way towards equality of all citizens and citizens of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61196	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac, chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61197	The esteemed chairman, respected Commissioner Mrs Jankovic, respected members of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality Team, respected MPs of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, discussed the annual report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We regularly discussed the 2018 annual report at a session held on 10 September and established the proposals for conclusions that are here today ahead of us. Commissioner Branko Jankovic, who attended the session, met members of the Committee with key findings and recommendations from the Report. The report gave the Committee an insight into the situation of equality where progress has been made, but also a complete insight into what problems our citizens face when it comes to the exercise of the right to equality. As a result of the findings set out in this report, the Committee has made recommendations in the draft conclusions in which we should act as a state to further improve the situation in the area of equality between our citizens and citizens, i.e. to prevent situations where a personal property leads to an unequal treatment of certain persons or groups, i.e. discrimination. In the proposal for conclusions, we specifically highlighted the following recommendations. Starting from the fact that certain strategies and action plans relating to the protection of the human rights of individual sensitive groups have expired, it is important that the Government and the competent ministries join as soon as possible, or end their work on drawing up these strategic documents and accompanying action plans. This is particularly important given that strategies related to protection against discrimination, improving the situation of persons with disabilities, protecting children from violence, protecting and caring for older people. It is about particularly sensitive groups of our citizens and a clear definition of the objectives, priorities and activities that we would respond to challenges in achieving their rights and improving their position, they should certainly be at the top of our priorities. The National Assembly has until now sought through legislative activities to improve the position of these persons, but given the complexity of the issue, it is necessary that all institutions and all levels of government contribute together and coordinatedly to the better position of our citizens. We particularly wanted to point out issues relating to the position of children and young people, but we also wanted to highlight the need to improve the situation of older people and thus the importance of intergenerational solidarity. Values such as tolerance, understanding, solidarity and non-discrimination should be nurtured from the earliest ages to prevent negative phenomena in our society, such as peer violence that is just resulting from intolerance and discrimination. We specifically pointed out the position of children from sensitive groups, such as the Roma community, where children are exposed to various violations of children's rights. These are primarily children's work or early marriages. We also pointed out the problem of leaving young people from Serbia and the need to improve activities that will enable young, educational people to achieve their professions and, on the other hand, contribute to the development of their country by their knowledge and skills. Serbia is not the only country facing this problem. All countries in the region are struggling with the departure of young people abroad. That is why it strongly encourages the announcement that the government will propose measures to improve youth employment, and above all, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's announcement that the government will propose a set of measures that involve amending the law on tax relief for youth employment. When we talk about banning discrimination, we can't, not to mention our older citizens. On this particular day, the International Day of Elderly People, I would like to look back on the situation of older people, with a desire to pay more attention to this category of our citizens and citizens in the coming period. Although we are aware that our oldest need support and help in the problems that aging inevitably carries, we must not view age as a problem, but must recognize the contribution of older people, use their knowledge and experience and ensure their greater inclusion in social life, which will contribute to the quality of their lives, but also to improving their human rights. In our proposal for conclusions, in addition to the recommendation to adopt a new ageing strategy as soon as possible, we have specifically pointed to the situation of older people living in rural and inaccessible areas, who face a number of problems. This, as the Commissioner said in his report, should further work to increase the availability of healthcare and social protection services, such as home treatment and care, strengthening patrol services to visit and assist the elderly, further developing and improving the system, consulting by phone, introducing mobile services that meet the specific needs of the elderly. When it comes to gender equality, especially when it comes to participation in political life and deciding the composition of the National Assembly and the fact that women are in the most responsible places, both in the National Assembly and in the Government, they are certainly in favour of significant shifts. Of course, there is a large space for further promotion in different areas, such as women's entrepreneurship and the position of women in the labour market and working relationship in terms of equal conditions for advancement and equal profit. We expect that the new law on gender equality will improve the legal framework in this area, but it is also important that laws be passed. When it comes to the position of women, what is the most difficult consequence of the imbalance of power and gender-based discrimination is certainly violence against women in the family and partner relations. The state is aware of the problems and significant steps have been taken, especially after the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. But, unfortunately, violence is still happening. I think the whole society needs to fight this big problem, first of all through prevention, and that's what I was talking about at the beginning, strengthening awareness of tolerance and equality from the earliest age. One of the recommendations proposed by the Committee in the proposal for a conclusion is to further strengthen the coordinated response of all competent institutions to the occurrences of violence, as well as greater support to victims through the development of support services. These issues should also be subject to regulation in future law on gender equality in order to fully comply with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence within the Istanbul Convention family. In our proposal for conclusions, we have made other recommendations concerning our citizens and citizens, such as persons with disabilities, and we have pointed out the need to adopt a new strategy for the protection of persons with disabilities. When it comes to national minorities, there has been an improvement in the legal framework, and what we need to follow as the National Assembly through the exercise of function control is its effective example. Serbia pays great attention to the issue of national minorities. This stems from the fact that in negotiations with the EU, we adopted a special Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities. The questions raised by the Commissioner in his report concern the equal representation of members of national minorities in the composition of the national authorities, authorities of local self-government and other public authorities and the position of Roma and Roma, and the Committee supported these recommendations in its proposal. We also pointed to the position of the LGBT population and found that this area should also be worked on preventing discrimination and any kind of violence and improving their human rights. Finally, I would like to conclude that the report of the Commissioners for the Protection of Equality gives us Members of Parliament insight into the state of human rights, when it comes to the right to equality, and I believe that the proposal for conclusions and recommendations and measures adopted by the National Assembly under this act will be applied by the competent authorities, which should be regularly notified by the National Assembly and this Committee. I believe that as the most legislative body, as well as the body that exercises parliamentary control over the work of the Government, we will contribute, within both functions, to further improving all human rights including the right to equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61198	Thank you, Mrs. Karanac. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here's a colleague of the Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61199	I thank the esteemed chairman, the esteemed Commissioner with his associates, fellow MPs, is here today, if I do not cheat on the ninth annual report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, which I can generally say only the words of praise. What I would first of all like to stress is the fact that this is another one in a series of reports of independent regulatory bodies that this high house has been discussing in the last few months, which is for every commendation. When we talk about the report itself, I have to point out that the report is complete, detailed, exhausted, exactly as one report should be. It fully covered all segments of activity, i.e. the competences in which the Trustee for the Protection of Equality acts, so that it essentially shows in the best possible way everything that can be seen from it, the intensive activities that the trustees and their associates have undertaken in terms of prevention and protection against discrimination, as well as the activities they have undertaken in terms of promotion, respect for the principles of equality. What is extremely important to say today is the fact that the principle of equality and prohibition of discrimination is one of the basic principles of human rights, which is seen as being equal to that of all people under the law, that is, that they can all equally protect their rights against the state authorities. From this universal law comes the obligation of all of us to respect the principle of equality. On the other hand, there is a general obligation, a abstention from discrimination that can be brought out on its own in many different ways, and therefore the concept of discrimination itself is difficult to define, but let me dare to make the concept of discrimination as simple as possible and say that discrimination is essentially making a difference, i.e. the unequal treatment of those in the same or similar situation. Realistically, no society and no state is fully resistant to certain types of discrimination, so neither is Serbia. By noting that one of the basic tasks of all of us, both MPs in Parliament and you as institutions dealing with this problem, but each citizen is, as I said, the task of all of us and each of us is to fight to the greatest extent possible against any form of discrimination, and to fight for the greatest degree of equality of each individual. I have already said that the report comprehensively and in detail shows what you, as a confidant together with your associates, did during 2018 on prevention and protection against discrimination, as well as on improving respect for the principles of equality, but it is also clearly shown and thank you for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the individual ministries, and this Parliament did specifically on this issue. As this is unequivocal in the report and found, a significant number of strategies, action plans, regulations, regulations and laws have been adopted last year, which have significantly improved this area, and which, as you yourself said and publicly commended, have been one of the well-fulfilled recommendations set out in your previous annual report. All of this shows the clear commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the highest authority of the executive authority and, of course, the National Assembly, as well as the highest body of the legislative authority, that through legislative legislation above all, it has an impact on the fuller achievement of the principles of equality and prohibition of discrimination, but that this regulatory and future improvement and harmonisation with the legal legislation of developed democratic countries. We had a chance to read this report, but also by listening to your address, we learn that the most complaints in previous years are more than half of the total number, filed for discrimination based on disability. Our country has done much to enable the highest degree of equality of persons with disabilities, but much more, especially in the field of education and health care, we must do so to ensure that our fellow citizens with disabilities are to the greatest extent possible equal members of this society. It is our duty and our obligation, but also the right person with disabilities to make everything they need for a normal life available to them, as well as to any other individual. In addition to disability discrimination, the most complaints were about age-based discrimination, especially children, which calls for concrete activities to regulate all kinds of support, especially children with disabilities and impediments to intellectual development, and then to support children who have been forced to live and work on the streets, as well as greater support for their children who are in any way subject to exploitation, abuse or any other form of discrimination. The need for equality between men and women, both primarily economic equality and each other, I personally and many of my colleagues in this house have spoken many times and, of course, we stand in a firm position that women must be equal to men in every respect, and that they must be fully protected from every possible form of violence that they may suffer. So this time I'm going to look at another problem, not just for the reason that I call it even male solidarity, but for the reason that this problem, the more accurate form of inequality, is really getting a little bit detached as a stereotype in our country, which is the fact that in the divorce of marriage centres for social work in a disproportionately larger number of cases, children in such situations should be entrusted to mothers, even when it's obvious that such a decision is not fully in the interest of children or children. But there is an apparent stereotype division of the roles within the family contributes to the attitudes of the social work center, so we are often in a situation where a father can have a child or children so only in cases where the mother explicitly does not want the children to be entrusted to her. I think we need to think about this as a society, because the fact that we admit it or not, this problem exists in our society. There is much more to be said in the report's section on the state of play and the protection of equality, as at the very end of the report, 29 recommendations to combat discrimination and improve equality. Since we have found that one part of the recommendations in your previous report has already been fulfilled, I am convinced, and I appeal to the fact that as representatives of citizens, we are trying to make the very interests of those same citizens who have given us their trust to represent them here, we are also fulfilling the recommendations of this report, making Serbia a better and better place for the lives of its citizens. Finally, before I say what can be said from my discussion so far, which is that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will support this work report, I want to thank you for this quality report and to wish you and your associates even more success in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61200	Thank you, Mr. Bag. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has a folk MP, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61201	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mrs Jankovic, on the agenda of today's session we have your report, Mrs Jankovic, i.e. the Report on the Protection of Equality for 2018. When we talk about equality, we always focus on gender equality and I think that it is the most public-accessible and that it is the most talked about. For Unity Serbia, all forms of equality are important and equally significant and I think a lot has been done over the past few years just that. We can take, for one good example, this very high home, where in 2012, there were 81 MPs, while we are now 90. It was precisely this data that ranked Serbia 22nd in 190 countries by the number of MPs in parliament. And the number of seats belonging to women is growing with an election cycle. When we look at 1990, when only 1.6% of women have been elected, we already have 21.6% in 2008, and after 2011, after amending election laws, when women are guaranteed a third of the seats, in the 2012 elections they increase to 32.4%. Today, as I said, there are 90 of us in the Assembly and we have shown that we are not just a number or a percentage, but each of us has contributed by our engagement to make women more visible not only in politics but that their voice, needs and problems are heard and that, in particular, by passing laws and various activities, the position of women in Serbia is improved. We have also contributed a great deal through the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network to ensure that gender equality is a topic in which all institutions will be involved and I want to take the opportunity to commend the work of your office and your work, Mrs Jankovic. You've always been with every call from the Women's Parliamentary Network, supporting our every action and activity. Great progress has also been made when we talk about equality, especially in the field of improving women's positions in Serbia, and most of all in terms of the legislative and strategic framework. You have recognised the importance of involving women in socio-political life and you have sent a series of recommendations to achieve equality, and in order to involve women in political and public life to cities and municipalities and by following the activities of many local self-governments, it is seen that they have seriously approached your proposals and that concrete results will be seen in the coming period. It certainly doesn't need to be stopped. There is still a lot of work ahead of us, especially at local level and the application of strategic policies from the Republic to the local region, as well as the adoption of a Law on Gender Equality, which I am sure will improve not only the position of women, but also their participation in all areas of social life. I'm not an advocate of women getting a job or a job just because they're women, but because by their work, experience and knowledge they deserve it and they can't be denied just because they're women. Because women are the basis for a modern society, or one country, and Serbia is just like that country. It should be stressed that Serbia is the only country outside the European Union that has an Equality Index and that makes Serbia 22nd in the common list of European countries. Serbia has achieved the most in the field of involving women in political life, but economic equality remains one of the biggest problems, i.e. that women are less paid than men for the same job. Unequal income between women and men is still a big stumbling block. For example, women in Sweden earn 5% less than men, while in Great Britain 8%, and when those incomes were even, the global economy could be richer by about $160 billion. The conclusion itself is imposed - giving room to women leads to a richer society. It is encouraging that the Global Report on Gender Equality for 2018 pointed to the narrowing of the birth gap and the reduction of gender inequality, such data differ from country to country. Iceland is a country that has managed to remove 86% of the difference between women and men. For me, it was a surprising fact that Nicaragua and Rwanda belong to a group of leading countries where gender equality is best applied and that they have better performances than many leading and developed countries. I've paid a lot of attention to gender equality, but I think it's one of the main problems that concerns the achievement of the equality of certain social groups, I mean people with disabilities, children, older people, people who are difficult to move, and their inequality is seen in the problem of accessibility of the facility, services, information, employment, sports, as conditions for achieving equality with other citizens. And you in your report, Mrs Jankovic, pointed to this kind of inequality. We are witnessing that in everyday life we see the problems of people with disabilities. When I mentioned sports, and as someone who's spent his whole life in sports, I want to point out that discrimination, and I think that maybe she's the most pronounced one. We know that sport affects not only physical strength, but also mental strength and how much sports it means. I always look forward to and support the participation of our athletes in the Paralympic Games, because I know how much effort and work is needed to prepare and participate in the competition itself. As a result, their results are even more valuable and significant. The Ministry of Sports is working on the equality of all athletes and is also rewarded with medals won by our paralympics and other athletes. We should work on equality when we talk about school sports, make it possible, or work to make sport equally accessible from the first school days of our children. I think it affects the construction of their personality and helps through life tomorrow and all that life carries is easier because they have built a healthy competitive spirit. As a society, we have to work to make people with disabilities feel equal and equal members of the community, and I think that we are mature enough, but when I read the Report, I have a fear that we still have a lot to do to raise awareness of the population and improve the situation of people with disabilities. Their will and, I may say freely, their life struggle to be equal members of the community should be an incentive for us to work on a society with equal and equal opportunities for all. As Commissioner, you have just met with the largest number of complaints concerning equality, and they have been filed on the basis of disability and in the Report you have stated how many complaints there have been. I hope that in your next report, and seeing how Serbia is working to improve the situation and reduce discrimination of people with disabilities, the number of complaints will be lower. Unique Serbia will always support all ideas and projects that will contribute to the equality of persons with disabilities, general equality in all segments of society. Also, for Unity Serbia, every man's position is important and should therefore be pointed to age-based discrimination. You stated in the report that most of the complaints, and when we talk about age discrimination, apply to persons between 50 and 65 years of age, and these are the most sensitive categories of society, because there is a major violation of equality in the field of work and employment. The biggest problem arises in employment, as they are not attractive to future employers because of years. We must not ignore them and let them be left to myself and therefore I would like to commend your initiative to amend and supplement the Social Protection Act, which applied to easier conditions for achieving the rights of older citizens to material support, as well as to recommend measures to the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health relating to better and better quality social and health protection of older people. In the report you listed and the percentages are all forms of discrimination you face. You also stated that the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence has achieved certain effects and improved coordination between institutions. In 2018, the national SOS line began as a kind of support for victims of violence, but we must certainly work hard to strengthen this support. In 2018, a smaller number of complaints based on discrimination and inequality of national minorities were also recorded. The problems they face are inadequate conditions for life, education, employment. The state is working to improve these conditions and make their participation in everyday life more visible and evident. Unique Serbia will support the 2018 Report on the Protection of Equality in the voting day, and we want to work together to make Serbia a country with equal chances for all. On the agenda, we also have a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing. I would take the opportunity to commend the formation of this commission. I find it essential to determine the consequences of the 1999 bombing on the lives of our citizens. We must certainly not forget all the victims and all the casualties Serbia suffered during the bombing. We must preserve the truth, both for our sake and for future generations. As I have stated, the Single Serbia will support and vote in favour of the 2018 Report on the Protection of Equality, as well as the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61202	Thank you. Now the word has Marjana Marash. Here you go, colleague Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61203	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Commissioners with fellow Members, honourable Members of the People, we have a 9. Report on the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, in accordance with the mandate and responsibilities of the Commissioners arising from the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The institution of the Trustee was established by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination as an in-house state body, independent and independent in the conduct of the tasks established by law. One of the key responsibilities of the Commissioner is the handling of complaints about discrimination. It is also important to highlight transparency in the work of the Commissioner. Despite the declaration of the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, discrimination is still a widespread social phenomenon, represented in all countries of the world, regardless of their political arrangements and demographic structures. During 2018, the Trustee acted, as you have stated, in 1,407 cases, which represents an increase in the number of cases compared to the previous year. In accordance with the legal powers, the Commissioner filed 947 complaints, and according to complaints, the Commissioner also made 300 recommendations for achieving equality. He filed four motions to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, three criminal charges, one suit for the protection of discrimination and one request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. Nine initiatives to amend the rules were sent in 2018. The most complaints were brought about by discrimination based on disability in more than one quarter of the total number of complaints lodged. In the second place, the number of complaints is the age, while every tenth complaint was about gender-based discrimination. Next complaints based on birth, health status, then national belongings and ethnic origin, then marital and family status and sexual orientation. By observing the areas of discrimination in 2018, the public service or use of facilities and surfaces is the first place. The second area is the area of work and employment, which requires more full measures to promote equality, but also much greater social responsibility for employers. The next area in which complaints are filed for discrimination are procedures before public authorities, then social protection, public information and media, education and professional training. The largest number of complaints were filed against the state authorities, as you listed, or public authorities and against legal entities, and then against legal persons and natural persons. The largest number of complaints were received from the Belgrade region, followed by the region of Šumadija, western Serbia, the region of Vojvodina, southern and eastern Serbia, the region of KIM. According to the credentials' recommendations, 61 cases have been followed, until 17 cases have not been followed, and in three cases, the time limit for the recommendation has not yet expired. According to the recommendations, 98.3% of cases have been followed by recommendations for the achievement of equality between the public authorities and other persons, while recommendations for the removal have been made following violations of the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination on the basis of disability as a personal quality in all cases. It is evident that there is a continuing trend of action on the recommendations, which leads to the conclusion that discriminatory treatment is not the result of the intention. Physical persons submitted more than two-thirds of the total number of complaints lodged to the Trustee. Women spoke to the Commissioner more often than men. The number of citizens who sought information by telephone and e-mail has also been increased. The reasons are the needs of citizens, their greater information, numerous problems and problems that have arisen in the application of certain laws. Of course, the work of the Commissioner also has increased visibility. Although the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality continues to work to protect citizens and citizens from all forms of discrimination and improve equality, society still faces a number of challenges in the plan to improve equality. The existing anti-discrimination legislation in Serbia lays the ground for improving equality and combating discrimination, but the legal framework needs to be improved and harmonised with EU legal assets and international standards. In improving equality and combating discrimination, courts also play an extremely important role. If it isn't brought to trial, it doesn't mean there was no discrimination in everyday life. People suffer different consequences for different reasons and are not prepared to seek judicial protection. Discrimination based on disability has been at the top of the number of complaints for years, and so it was in 2018. People with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, like in the EU, represent one of the most vulnerable groups of people in all areas of social life. They are mostly discriminated against in the areas of accessibility, public facilities and surfaces, availability of services, information and communication. According to the results of the latest census in Serbia, 571,780 people with disabilities live. Their problems can be classified in the following groups: the problem of equating opportunities for people with disabilities, the problem of the economic and social situation of people with disabilities and the problems of the functioning of disabled organisations. These problems are considered not to have disappeared by establishing a new anti-discrimination law. In the second place according to the number of complaints lodged in 2018, there is an age which often appears as a basis of discrimination in combination with some other personal property such as health disability. The Law prohibiting discrimination against persons based on age and stressing that the elderly are entitled to dignified conditions of life without discrimination, in particular the right to equal access and protection against neglect and harassment in the use of health and public services. The situation of older people has been regulated by numerous international documents. It is important, however, to stress that this type of discrimination does not necessarily relate to age as a social category, although it often affects people of adulthood. Today, October 1st, we mark the international day of the elderly. The international day of older people was introduced by UN decision in 1990, in order to point to the problem the elderly face, but also to the contribution they have in society today. In Serbia, nearly two million people are over 60 years old, more precisely 1.89, almost 1.3 million people are over 65 years old; and 106,951 is over 85 years old. As in the world, Serbia is growing in percentage of older people, and it is estimated that in 2041, more than a quarter of the population will be over 65 years old. A particularly difficult situation will be in rural areas. Here is an additional problem that older people often don't report when they're victims of discrimination because they're ashamed, they feel powerless, or they're not informed enough about how to apply. The average age of people in Serbia is 42.7 years, and according to UN data, the population in Serbia has been among the five oldest in the world over the past decade. Experts remind us that by increasing the number of older people, the risk of their social isolation is also increasing. Efficient fight against discrimination and violence as well as intergenerational solidarity is not only an obligation, but also a moral imperative in every responsible society. According to the Commissioner's report, people between 50 and 60 years of age most often face difficulties in the process of employment and work due to the deployment into a lower workplace, cancellation or termination of work contracts due to years of life and attitude towards old workers and prejudices on their inefficientness and inproductivity. In addition, the position of citizens over 65 years of age who, regardless of many problems, are still less likely to address their research with competent authorities, so we have no real insight into this kind of discrimination. It is particularly concerned about the forecast of continued intense aging due to low birth, fertility and migration of the younger population. Lifespan has been extended and the share of older people in the population has been increased, so older people face a number of economic, social and health challenges. The practice of the trustee shows the need to improve palatable care in order to improve the quality of life of patients and preserve man's dignity in the last days of life. Of course, I especially want to thank you for this because indeed many people have problems and it is necessary to work as a state on this problem of patient care. Paul, as the basis of discrimination, takes third place. Although women continue to file complaints over gender discrimination, it is noticeable that more and more men are doing so. For example, they were complainants of discrimination on the basis of gender in the form of health care when it came to being sick children and who of the parents could remain escorted to hospitals. Working relationship is one of the fields where gender inequality is extremely represented, resulting from deep-rooted unequal evaluation of work and social roles of men and women. I would like to point out here that this problem of unequal evaluation of the work of men and women, said Ivica Dacic, as prime minister for the government's composition in 2012, in his exposé. There is a practice that women are discriminated against in progress because of the fact that they were absent from work for child care. Also, the application of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees far more affects women, given that in the public sector, especially in public services, there is no comparable number of women than men and there is no possibility of overcoming their working relationship from certain to indefinite. It remains that there is a need to improve co-ordinated and efficient action in all institutions of the system to protect against domestic violence, other forms of gender-based violence. In order to strengthen women economically, it is necessary to take continued steps to encourage employment and female entrepreneurship, as well as to protect women from discrimination on the labour market, in particular in order to achieve equality and access to jobs, equal conditions for advancement and equal profit. Further measures need to be taken to bring the balance between family, work, or work and parenting into line. It is also necessary to support your recommendations on taking measures and activities to ensure the inclusion and promotion of equal representation of women and men in all areas of political and public life. When it comes to performing public functions, considering that gender equality in practice is difficult to achieve without the proportion and direct participation of women in the decision-making process in all areas of public life, at all levels. Although the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence has achieved certain effects and improved the system of protection against domestic violence, other forms of gender-based violence, the problem of violence continues to exist, with the strengthening of competent institutions and strengthening the victim support system, promotion and the SOS line for women victims of violence, as stated in the report. Summing up the numerous activities you had in 2018, it is your intention to provide more effective protection against discrimination in the future and to continue working to improve equality, and all in order to build a society based on tolerance, equality and respect for the human rights of all our citizens and citizens, to create such a cultural pattern for a society in which discrimination is condemned, and equality respects and supports, but also implies. Finally, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will support your report, as well as all proposals for the conclusion of the Committee on Human, Minority Rights and Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61204	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word has been made by the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP of the People's Republic of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Branko Jankovic was elected Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in 2015, then a group of NGOs appeared, who held their position that it was not suitable for that function for some of their reasons. Meanwhile, Brankica Jankovic has evolved to the level of these NGOs and she, especially in the past year and has already been well noticed, has actually acted as if the president of some NGO, the type Sonja Biserko, Natasha Kandic, etc. and such is her relationship with some, possibly, problems in the state of Serbia. To begin with, I would like to draw attention to Mrs Jankovic, who is a lawyer, a graduate, in the biography, that the Republic of Serbia is a state of Serbian people and all citizens living in it, etc. I'm reading this because Mrs. Jankovic should know exactly the Constitution, Article 1. The constitution also cannot speak in its favorite "Today", which regularly publishes all its statements and interviews, etc., that the Constitution states that the state of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all other peoples living in it. So that's not what it says, it's exactly how I read it. It does not say that there are "citizens", but only citizens. It does not say that we are “people’s messengers, ” but that we are a member of 100. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the National Assembly has 250 MPs. So, these innovations of yours, some kind of civic orientations, as you like to say, you can't officially use them, as you never should have signed that you're a trustee for the protection of equality, because you're a trustee. Leave some feminist phrases, I say, for this "Today" and the other media where they are happy to see you. When reading this report that we received from the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, of course the report as a report, it can always be written that it seems that something has been done, there are numbers, there are so many demands, so many answers, etc., but there are no concrete things. Among other things, he said that in 81% of cases respondents felt that representatives of public authorities, who come forward in public, had to be more responsible than citizens and citizens. Also, representatives of the public authorities say that discrimination is the most encouraging of the media, then political parties and then state institutions. Here she forgot to put, not to add, but to put first the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, because what we were listening to and reading in Mrs. Branko Jankovic's statements is just talking about. Of course, more details will be put forward during the debate. As part of the new cycle of activities, the report also said, at the prevention of labour market discrimination and improvement of equality, the Commissioner continued, according to the Commissioner, activities in promoting the codes of equality and co-operation with employers who want to bring this code. Thus, in 2018 and in the American Chamber of Commerce, with the presence of representatives of renowned companies, members of the American Chamber of Commerce, the Code of Equality, etc. is presented. So, through this report, it is mostly carried out that Mrs. Brankica Jankovic consulted with both the American Chamber of Commerce and various British, from the ambassadors of the former Cliff to others. It simply points to what I said at the beginning of this debate. It says here somewhere that Branko Jankovic, as the Trustee of Equality, has awarded an annual media award in due time. Imagine who won that award from Branko Jankovic? Among others, journalist "Time" Jovana Gligorijević, for the title, i.e. the text "I rapes the state, does not". Some journalists have also received the Network production house. So, absolutely in line with the attitudes of NGOs and Western mentors in Serbia. Very often Mrs. Jankovic talks about hate speech, and in fact, you, Mrs. Jankovic, don't know what hate speech is, because if you knew, you certainly wouldn't be using it in every place where you seem to be able to put it. I remind you of article 75. The law on public information, at least you can read it, where it says the definition of hate speech, that it is an incentive to hate or violence against a person or a group of persons because of their belonging or not to a race, religion, nation, gender, their sexual commitment or other personality traits. So something like this is not happening in Serbia, Mrs. Jankovic. You can't say that if someone says that a MP who changes parties, who sells a parliamentary mandate, and someone says that she's a political prostitute, and she is, you can't say that's hate speech. You may not like it, I'm sorry, but it's not hate speech. It's a simple attitude and a fact. Mrs. Jankovic will be remembered for one sentence that is quite dangerous, but fortunately for her, no one asks anything, so she can say what she wants. It says - migrants in Serbia should be offered to stay and settle in parts of our country that are uninhabited, and it expects it to happen. Mrs. Brankice Jankovic, you can, if you have any property in your native Cačka, offer it to whoever you want, and parts of Serbia, populated or uninhabited, you can't do it to anyone. This is where the competent authorities were supposed to respond to this statement. What did Mrs. Brankica Jankovic do next? It's all here presented through these numbers of hers, as that miracle of God has done. She condemned Bora Djordjevic's column just like that, so she condemned the minister, even asked Minister Nenad Popovic for his apology, because he reacted to gay paintings imported from Croatia, where he said he was unacceptable that Rocco had two moms and Ana had two dads. And four months after that, when it was current, she asked Minister Popovic to apologize. Of course, the man refused to do it. But it is interesting that Branko Jankovic did not notice and did not respond to the fact that textbooks for Serbian children, i.e. children in Serbia, are printed in Croatia and are printed by someone who is financing the Ustasha movement of Franjo Tudjman, HDZ, etc. That didn't bother you. You didn't notice that, but you do have a problem with something that doesn't match your NGOs, which you obviously belong to. You are not satisfied with the state of human rights in Serbia. You don't explain it very well, but I think you tend to do exactly what some try to impose in Serbia. The fact is that there are some problems, but that it's marked as some kind of problem of this kind of broader scale, it's certainly not true. Then Branko Jankovic decided to defend the press. Do you know who? Snezana Čongradin, this Gruhonjic, Dragan Janjic and the like. She defended Snow White Congradin and because she, she says, was offended by Vojislav Seselj. But interestingly, Brankica Jankovic did not notice that Snow White Congradin is in her columns regularly, and today it says that Serbs are genocide, that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, that in Serbia someone has to apologize, that we have to wash ourselves from that genocide somewhere, etc. That doesn't bother the trustee. But, God, someone said Snow White Congrad's ugly. Yu, what a sin. You still called it hate speech. I remind you, you don't know what hate speech is. You defended Dinko Gruhonjic because someone on Twitter wrote that he was not called Dinko, but Sabahudin Gruhonjic, which, of course, is no problem as he is called, but how did you not mind, how did you not remember condemning him because he said that the Serbs were a genetic shrimp, he wrote? Gruhonjic wrote – Serbs are a genetic skeleton. And you don't mind, but you do mind if someone on Twitter says his real name is. Next, let's see what else you said wonderfully? Yes, Mrs Brankica Jankovic defends against Serbian radicals Zorana Mihajlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Jerkov, among other things. We, let's say, attack, criticise, better say, Zoran Mihajlovic over various malversions, among other things, because of the Bechtel contract, over 300m euros stolen. How come it never occurred to you as a trustee to say a word about it, but, God, offended radicals, Seselj, Zorana Mihajlović? And I need, I don't know what, to apologize. Of course not, both you and them. Marinika Tepic and Aleksandra Jerkov persistently, and Balsa Bozovic and some other group of these political prostitutes, insist that Prof. Vojislav Seselj is a war criminal. My colleague, do you know, did you look at the verdict of Vojislav Seselj? How did it not occur to you as someone who is the Trustee of Equality to say – Vojislav Seselj, even according to the UN tribunal's verdict, is not a war criminal? No, that doesn't bother you, but when he says what he's gonna do to anyone who calls him a war criminal, then God, he attacks women. Let go of those phrases of women, men. If someone's in politics, it doesn't matter if it's a woman or a man. You're talking about a woman's network. So, where's your female network at the Assembly? Why don't you get them together? What does that even mean? Where's your woman's net? Do not make Serbia something Serbia is not and will never be. You've never once called on the subject of all those who say that in Srebrenica there was genocide, not once, and as a lawyer and as a trustee of equality, you didn't stop, at least to protect the equality of the victims. It's not your topic, it's not your concern. You want to know if one of your friends is pretty or ugly and if someone's going to say it in public. You don't care about that either, do you know what it means to remain inscribed, to remain common in communication that genocide occurred in Srebrenica? Do you know what this means to the descendants of your descendants? Do you even know what that means for the Serbian people? But you don't mind, you don't care about that. Has it ever occurred to you that somewhere you should talk about Republika Srpska President Milan Martic serving prison in Estonia in a way that violates all possible human rights, which is not recorded in the world? Has it occurred to you to invite these friends of yours from the white world and draw attention to the fact that the Ratko Mladic family is asking him to go to treatment at the Russian Federation? Why don't you show up somewhere, so whether you're listening or not, why don't you say a word about it somewhere? Did it ever occur to you, or why it didn't occur to you, and I know it wasn't, to answer... For three years in a row in Serbia, the Shipar festival "Mirdita" is being held in Belgrade. How come it didn't occur to you to point out, as the Trustee of Equality, that it couldn't be done? No, you support those who organize it, you're the same society, you're the kind of civilian, as you like to say, the sector and you, ma'am, even though you're elected to the National Assembly, are part of that civil sector. That says what you're doing. How come it never occurs to you that, as the Trustee of Equality, you say a word about minimum incomes, about the lowest pensions? How come you never say it's impossible for a minimum salary or a minimum pension to be less than 37,000 dinars at this point, because the minimum amount of the lowest consumer basket? That's your job. Whether or not the government will listen to you, it's none of your business. Your job is to say - wait, in this country Serbia should all be equal, among other things equal, so that in a month they can survive what they get, like pay or pension, and this way they can't, but it's not a topic for you. How come it didn't occur to you, as a lawyer, first of all, to see if you share that legal position, when your friends, like Snow White, this Jerkov, the Marines, say that the National Assembly is illegal because there's a war criminal sitting in it, that you're reacting, that you say, first of all, that he's not a war criminal, and secondly, that someone who's convicted of whatever crime can't be, as they like to say, excluded from the National Assembly because it occurred to someone who's selling a kilo, like the Marines, like Jerkov, and so on, who is everything other than Serbia and the Serbian national interests, and you're shoulder-to-side with them? Has it occurred to you that you should talk to someone, when there was a show in Kolartz this year, when some from Sarajevo came to hold the show, to promote the topic that there was genocide in Srebrenica, on the day that they were in Potocari making an event out of what happened in Srebrenica, which is certainly not genocide? No, you don't think of that kind of thing. Does it occur to you to draw attention to the media, first of all to your "Today" and your N1 because you are uncircumcised and others, and RTS, public service, to tell them that when they talk about the southern Serbian province, they must not say Kosovo, but the AP Kosovo and Metohija? Do you understand that in this way, you are also protecting the equality of all people in the territory of the Serbian state? Has it occurred to you, Mrs Jankovic, to ask, here, today you are here, ask the Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia why they have been misleading the public for several years and why again in the Law on the Budgetary System, the proposal, says that no ban on employment in the public sector will be lifted next year? Are you even interested in some things that are of interest to the state of Serbia? Let go of some of your modern phases, some kind of feminist nonsense, some kind of protection I don't even know what. You're not paid for it, you're not set for it. When you were set up, you told a different story. In the meantime, you've defended yourself against it. These NGOs, which they said at the time that you were not similar to this function, called you a SNS official and your husband, etc. In the meantime, you defend yourself against it and become, like, a trustee paid by the state, part of the so-called. Civil sector. You can't do that and you can't do that. Your constitution is something you must look at, from which you must not go out, even in that modernist speech of yours. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the equality of all people living in Serbia, all people living in Serbia and the general equality of rights, human freedoms etc. all people and human rights of all people, not selectively. You can't choose to like this Jerkov and you mind because Seselj said she's a Ustasha whore. What do you care? Who authorized you to react the way you reacted? I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61206	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61207	Thank you, Chairman. After discussions on reports by the Citizens' Protectors and the Commissioner for Access to Information of Public Meaning in July, today we have a report from the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I find it interesting for me to consider today's World Age Day report by the Commissioner, given the fact that in the reporting period discrimination based on age, by the number of cases reported, is elsewhere. So, out of 1,407 complaints, 16.5% concerned discrimination against the old. The symbol is not enough, but it is necessary that we work together even more and stronger because the job of protecting and improving equality, equality never stops. The report on the work of the Trustee for Equality shows and contains all that is necessary to fully reflect and present the activities of the Office of the Trustee in the exercise of constitutional and legal competences, which also assess the achievement and protection of citizens' rights against state authorities. The report of the Trustee, as well as the work of other independent regulatory bodies and institutions, has special significance for the SDP. The protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, equality, equality and solidarity for SDPS are, not only programming but also valuable, a permanent commitment. This, as well as the previous report, gives an assessment of the state of society, state administration, the public sector and points out very precisely to the necessary systemic changes, building and strengthening institutions to improve the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights and the exercise of citizens' rights. On the other hand, the proposed conclusions make clear the intention, and it is clear that the will to further strengthen independent institutions, therefore, in the coming period. The conclusions contain recommendations for the Government to continue continuous surveillance and improvement in all areas, by analysing the effects of the application of the law in order to achieve citizens' rights more effectively and legally and to improve mechanisms for the protection of their rights. Independent regulatory bodies, as I often say, have been established by institutions almost a decade and a half ago to control law enforcement in certain areas, i.e. protect and promote respect for the freedoms and rights of citizens in the conduct of public authorities. We're allies in this business. We have chosen the Commissioner to perform in our name an extremely important and responsible and not easy job and thus our responsibility as MPs is far greater. Using their control role and function, we are the ones who need to closely monitor whether and to what extent the Government and everyone else apply the recommendations and implement the conclusions that we will today, I believe, and adopt, in order to continue, as I have said, and it is important that I repeat it several more times, strengthen and promote democracy and the rule of law, because there is nothing more important for civil society to build than strengthening the institutions of the legal system, in part, and not just declaratively. I read your report carefully, Commissioner. It is comprehensive and gives not only a cross-section, but also recommendations on what is executive, but also the legislative authority should undertake to improve equality, protection and respect for human rights and, of course, everyone within their powers. The quality of the report points to the serious and dedicated work of the Institute for the Protection of Equality in the exercise of human rights. You are independent in your work and independent and in this sense the Government must in no way influence your work and solving the case, except the necessary co-operation and assistance in implementing solutions relating to the conduct of the authorities of the state administration. We have control of independent bodies. We have chosen you, as I have already mentioned, to do this extremely complex and responsible job on our behalf. So we are obliged, and we are further bound by these conclusions that we are about to adopt, to monitor with due attention the work of the executive bodies and to establish closer cooperation with you so that we can react in advance and in time. Analyzing the report seems necessary to strengthen this type of co-operation and further improve the communication of the Trustee Office with the National Assembly and the People's MPs and try to apply one proactive approach to solving the problem and improving the equality of all citizens and citizens in Serbia. It seems to me that in certain segments that concern the initiative and opinions that your Office makes on the draft laws, somehow the report shows that at this point, a reactive approach. I believe that at a time when it was actual that you acted proactively, but today we as a legislative body, when we read it in the report, it is only one finding for us today and in that sense a reactive approach. Perhaps if we had been referred to everything that was not respected, as a recommendation from your office, that as MPs we had been sent to all these details, perhaps we could have shared in talking to ministers when we had discussed the laws in this high house we might have been able to further improve or speed up the adoption of some extremely important recommendations which, as a result, have been passed so even undetected. For some of them, I have to admit, I only learned by reading the report and, in that sense, I appeal once again to the Office in order to strengthen this cooperation between the legislative body and the office in the future. We may be able to do even more and even better to improve equality and equality and in general the rule of law and democracy in society. So there is no need to explain now what is seen in the report, that the prescribed procedure regarding obtaining the opinion of all the competent authorities and participation in the public has not been fully implemented, which then could have led to the adoption of regulations that are not compatible with each other, and it is necessary to make sure that we do not confuse additional citizens in this way because at some point we will have to change and adapt when practice teaches us that some regulations are inadmissible we will have to change them. That is why I think there is also this attitude towards initiatives and opinions on the proposals of the Commissioner's law, one of the indicators and positions of the trustee institution, but sometimes the relations of the legislative and executive authorities with the problems facing citizens in the exercise of their rights. In this sense, I repeat once again, it is necessary and it would be useful to step up joint activities because the intention to promote future equality and equality and democracy and the rule of law and human rights in Serbia is not controversial. Therefore, this timely introduction of the National Assembly and the legislative authorities with initiatives can be of multiple benefit, not only to see the problems that citizens face, but to find solutions for them in time. With a proactive approach and closer co-operation, we can eliminate some problem while it is still at the level of a dozen complaints a year. It's better than waiting for the number of complaints about a problem to rise to 300,400 or more so we can solve it, because it's certainly going to be harder to solve this issue, as it is much harder to solve today, for example. The problem of school violence. We're talking about young people raising new generations. Today, it is more difficult to solve this problem than to solve it, for example. 20 years ago. I am not saying that we are not, but one preventive approach is important to improve in solving those key problems because the set of competences at the Commissioner's Office for the Protection of Equality is sufficient to prevent discrimination and the improvement of the work of public administration, if used appropriately, from making an important shift in the protection of citizens' rights. The task of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is to prevent all types, forms and cases of discrimination, to protect the equality of natural and legal persons in all areas of social relations, to monitor the application of rules on the prohibition of discrimination, as well as to improve and achieve the protection of equality. I will discuss some of the segments in the report in more detail, as well as my colleagues from the SDPS, in the follow-up of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61208	I thank my colleague, Mihajlović Vacic. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here's my colleague, Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61209	I thank the chairman. Dear Commissioner, welcome to the home of the National Assembly. In these three and a half years of my term, we have not had the opportunity to meet in the plenary session. I'm so glad you presented your report today. I won't be doing so much of the technical details of this report because all my colleagues before me have done it very well again after your presentation, so I don't want to waste any of your time, nor tire of it further, for example. Serbian citizens following this meeting. I would like to look together at a few questions that I think are important and that rely on the problems we have from 2018, and we also have them in 2017, 2016, and all the opportunities are for us to face these problems today in 2019 and to solve them with a hard time in some future period. I'm going to slowly go after some groups that I think are at this point in Serbia the most endangered. First of all, I would refer to the position of people with disabilities in Serbia. I would refer to the problem of the accessibility of institutions and buildings to the greatest extent possible, the physical accessibility of their problems. I haven't had a chance to get to know myself before thinking there are some institutions and some institutions in this country that are absolutely accessible to all people with disabilities. However, by force of opportunity, I have recently encountered this situation that even our hospitals are not sufficiently accessible and it seems to me that we should put on this problem and how we put on an accent and when I say that they are not accessible, they are not accessible to the most banal level, starting with the toilets, approaching the offices, visiting patients, providing services to people with disabilities in the field of health care. This problem is something that we really carry from the past and this problem should all be dealt with together and you as someone who runs an independent institution on your part, we on this side as MPs and the greatest responsibility lies most on the one who is currently in the position of executive authority. The second thing, as far as accessibility is concerned, is that I now say one situation that awaits us in the spring of 2020, which is an opportunity for people with disabilities to vote in Serbia. Therefore, the voter list is not arranged in such a way that it can be seen whether persons with disabilities, unless one of the closest ones reports them for a vote. The accent is on the accessibility of the premises where the vote is being held, whether they are physically located on a building floor, etc., where people who are moving with carts or orthopedic aids tend to come to a place where they can choose another problem they encounter, are persons who are blind and weak-sighted for whom at this point still have to vote by another person ie. to express their electoral will. So this problem exists and can be solved. I hope your office understands the problem and as much as we could read from the report, you're also talking about it. So, somehow, if we were to put pressure on ourselves, given that this situation is now in the state and the time of the political crisis in which the electoral circumstances are most discussed, that is, topic number one, currently in the state, so through this topic it would be good to address the problem of people with disabilities who would like to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right. As far as people with disabilities are concerned, you're the most, I think you're telling me. You said that there are the most complaints and that they come to the most because of the misapplication of the Financial Support Act with children in which, of course, the mothers of children, who have given birth to children with disabilities, are affected. I'm very often talking about this, almost 90% of my presentations in fact are dedicated to the subject of amending the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and I really want to express one gratitude on my own behalf and on behalf of the initiative that I am leading and on behalf of the Party of Modern Serbia, which you have proposed to the Constitutional Court to consider this law, namely to declare it in certain provisions unconstitutional and concrete terms, therefore, one more serious accent. As an initiative, therefore, the "Moms are the Law" initiative and the Modern Serbian Party, together with 30 colleagues sitting with us in parliament, also proposed to the Constitutional Court to discuss this law. The Constitutional Court is not as agile as we are, I may say, so it has not yet come to the consideration. During the summer, I asked for insight into this case and to see how far it's been, not much has been achieved about the amendments to this law. The Constitutional Court sent a request to the Serbian Parliament, and then the Serbian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, to make a statement about it, and it seems to me that this road is too long, so it can be much faster, especially when it comes to this provision. So it is a very small number of children affected by the application of this law and it is indeed only a matter of will, goodwill of the Ministry of Labour and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve this issue. Nor does it burden to some extent the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor will any citizen mind if families who have children with disabilities meet in this way. I will refer, of course, to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, it is more discriminatory than just this one provision. You also mentioned in the report and in your presentation the problems that farmers have, the problem also has entrepreneurs. It's something that, even a lot of questions are just being passed by law, we can actually see how they open up, what are the problems. So, for example, one of the items that opened up in the meantime, which I did not know when we passed that law, although I was largely addressed to that law, so entrepreneurs cannot transfer maternity leave to their spouse, unlike other women. And that finally proved to be one discriminatory provision that we should all deal with together. I welcome one of the objectives listed in your report, which is the economic empowerment of women. The compensations that come from the application of this law are also going in this direction, for the economic empowerment of women, especially in a country like ours, where all of our mouths are talking about demographic problems and population policy, and we are essentially not dealing with these basic things, how when that woman wants to be a mother and when she wants to use everything she's acquired in this country in the meantime, she's even bothered to do it all the way to the end, if she knows that the state is making obstacles at every turn. I would briefly look back, although that was what we were talking about today, about the situation and the position in which members of different sexual orientations in Serbia are located. I am very concerned about the public talk and the way different police organisations deal with these issues. I'm going to specify what I mean by this. So every autumn we have opportunities to see that, parallel to the "Prade of Pride" in Belgrade, and now in several cities across Serbia, some other parades bearing the name "Prade of Pride", parenting, etc. Not to get into a situation where we get the wrong idea, the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to gather and express their views. The difference between the organised "Prade of Pride" held in Belgrade and I say across Serbia is that it also carries with it a list of certain requirements that this group of people has. Among other things, to legally resolve the issue of their marriages and extramarital communities, legal property issues, etc. While on the other hand, since it happens at the same time as some kind of pandan or revolt group of citizens who do not support persons of different sexual orientations, some other gatherings are organised without a clear goal why they are gathering. So there are no requirements ahead of such an organisation on the streets of Serbia, and with a desire to point out that they are only against LGBT populations. So, I think it is a very great responsibility for all of us to explain, to educate the citizens of Serbia, to understand that "The Parade of Pride" is not a provocation, but a legitimate right used under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to bring people together and to seek some amendments to the legal rules that their life choices are practically threatened. So, I have no particular objection, given that you are active in human rights matters relating to people of different sexual orientations, but I would take advantage of the opportunity to appeal to citizens that these topics are much better informed both to the public and to the media who have the opportunity to inform citizens, to take advantage of this opportunity to educate citizens not to create more hatred among themselves than there may be, but to simply understand each other in the demands we make. I am very concerned in 2019 that the rights of certain national minorities and how they threaten. First of all, I think of the Roma population and in 2019, perhaps just a few weeks ago we had a situation where two associations of citizens were right-wing, very clearly right-wing, took justice into their own hands and tried to do what a country should do. I'm gonna name them and I think we should deal with them, so I'm appealing to them not to do it anymore. It is about the Leviathan Association, which officially has declared animal welfare and the "Serbian Honor" Association, which I really don't even know is a formal organisation. A few weeks ago, under pressure, to say on their own initiative, under pressure, they extorted recognition from a minor Roma who beat in some of the videos that could be seen in public, beat his horse and instead addressed institutions at the level of the state taking care of animals, they took that justice into their own hands. They practically intimidated this young man, extorted his confession and promise that he wouldn't do it anymore, and then after a while they brought that activity down to apologies, we joked. So it is absolutely unacceptable that members of a national minority that we know is significantly endangered in relation to all other citizens in Serbia are still creating this kind of additional pressure, because we have institutions in this country. As it is necessary to strengthen the institution of yours that you represent today, so it is necessary to strengthen some other institutions at the level of the country dealing with some other issues, as well as only the judiciary as it should in this case respond. I am also very concerned about the terrible hate speech that can be heard in both the media and unfortunately here in parliament. It's a better situation in the last few months, but in the last three and a half years of my term, I could certainly say that for one three years we have been exposed to terrible hate and impatience speeches, and that it could simply be seen as spreading among Serbian citizens, accepts as one model of conduct that is acceptable to everyone. First of all, I will really appeal to colleagues, especially colleagues, not colleagues, but colleagues, who use every opportunity to attack their fellow Members here during the plenary session who do not have the same political attitudes, calling them the most common names. Among the attacked colleagues were counterpart Marinika Tepic, and co-worker Aleksandra Jerkov and Mrs Sanda Raskovic Ivic, and me among other things. These are all the women who are in this House, there are more unfortunately, who are exposed to terrible attacks and pressures that are very easily spread from this space from the plenary session to the public space through the media, which we cannot influence. I really appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues to make sure that we respect the unthinkers, that we do not take advantage of the opportunity to address each other in this way in public space. I can't tell if I've had the chance to see that in public space you've said anything about discrimination based on health. What's specific this year is that for example, I haven't had a chance to meet this information, and so I found out that there is a group of people who are suffering from certain diseases, which are severe, incurable, etc., and who are also inferior in relation to some other patients who have had some other diseases because they don't have any treatment available in the way that it should be. I want to inform the public that in Serbia we have one of those cases, they are suffering from multiplesclerosis. So, in Serbia there are, according to the information available to us, there are no of course the Ministry of Health yet, I hope they will deliver them, there are about 9,000 people suffering from multiple sclerosis in Serbia and only 12% of patients have the right to treatment and these are not the most effective treatments they can use. So there is serious discrimination at this level, and I think we should appeal to the Ministry of Health, and here comes the budget debate. I understand that some treatments are expensive and that it is not easy to get to them, but there is a debate on the budget, and it seems to me that we could all make a contribution in that all patients who are in a position to be treated here in Serbia can actually do so. So, getting these drugs isn't something that's impossible for our country or for the Ministry of Health, it seems to me that we could also make additional efforts to resolve this issue. I'm going to look back briefly on the position of senior citizens. So last year, we voted for the suspension of the Interim Retirement Act. There was a serious group, a large group of our fellow citizens, who gave up a part of their property in favour of our country's prosperity. So, since these days we really listen to everything about our country's economic development, whether it's justified or not, the question is, is there any intention of correcting the mistake that has been made towards the pensioners who have endured this burden of decision to pass such a law? So, I don't know how your independent institution could help, but it seems to me that we could solve that question as well. If the state wants to solve this issue, my colleague has done a more serious economic analysis of this problem, and there is a possibility that this issue can be solved. Again, it's just a matter of political will, not a question so much that this country can handle it or not. I, as president of SMS, will clearly pro-European-oriented parties to support your work further. Your report in every sense is good and good. It is the latest in a series of reports by independent institutions this parliament is due to adopt. I'm going to take every effort to strengthen your independence in the work, because it seems to me that when we cooperate much better, the state works better, and it seems to me that we're going to find a better way to point out some of the problems that we might have in the difolt that some of the different relationships are, we can't explain how important some of the issues are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61210	I'd like to thank my colleague, Macura. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61212	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic, for giving me your word. Mrs Jankovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are discussing today the report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, because also the MPs and citizens who follow this will be able to learn about the results that have been achieved so far in the areas concerned by the report, but we must also think about what else we can do to make the degree of equality greater, i.e. that discrimination in our society is less. We still face daily challenges in this area, and this requires a truly continuous work on laws that contain standards to combat discrimination, in terms of compliance with international rules and in terms of compliance with EU standards. The report is indeed comprehensive, providing insight into the results of the analysis and research that should certainly be taken into account when taking further steps in the fight against discrimination, but we also need to know in what way this statistics are made, that the statistics given in the report are actually done in the context of the work of the Trustee, which is the conduct of complaints. So it's good to hear some positive things, things that have been done for citizens to have a more complete picture of what we're talking about. In your 2018 report, discrimination on the basis of disability was most often due to the inability to access public facilities, in order to inform or achieve some of its rights or to meet some of its needs. Of course, I agree that in the fields of employment, education, social and health care there are things that need to be worked on, which may need to be changed or improved. And on us MPs is part of the job and part of the responsibility to take into account all the rules, including the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which can also help us create norms. It is logical that the application of the Serbian government's measures should be monitored in this area and units of local self-government. As we get data from your report, I also think it's a good idea for MPs to give you some information, so that you have a more complete picture at this point about our society. I'll look back briefly on the city of Nis from which I come. In fact, it is good to say that 21 million dinars have been allocated from the budget for people with disabilities associations, the city has been an initiator of many things, not only to start a story about the birth of consciousness among people about the problems that people with disabilities have, but also jobs about the affirmation of these associations, even removing some physical barriers and the movement of many services. The most important service currently in Nis is the personal assistant service and they are currently in Nis 36. We can say that this is a good thing that has been done for our city, if we consider that there are 50 in Belgrade and something, that is, in all of Serbia, 94. Also, a Council for Working with Persons with Disabilities was formed at the mayor's office. It is good that members of this council are actually members of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, so that they can immediately pass on the problems they have and the needs they face daily. Secondly, as a basis of discrimination, you are given an age, mainly in combination with disability or health. I'd like to appeal to you, seeing as you're doing training and research, that, indeed, our people might have a little bit of a change of awareness in that sense that when a fellow citizen of ours is older, he might not be immediately old and unproductive. In this sense, it is also referred to as a health condition, as one of the grounds for discrimination, mainly in people who are suffering from autism, from HIV, etc. So, prejudice still exists, probably much less than before, but maybe we should work first to expand people's awareness of these problems, and then maybe some better-quality legal solutions. I'd stay for a little discrimination based on nationality and ethnic origin. You cited this basis of discrimination in the 2018 report as the sixth most frequently cited and that the most frequent complaints came from members of the Roma national minority. You will agree, lately, a lot of things have been done about the legislative framework and about the concrete support of the Serbian government to national minorities, or minority nations, and there are data on how seriously we have taken the issue of improving the position of minorities. Somewhere my personal impression would be that in Serbia, the position of national minorities is far better than in other countries in the region. First of all, I want to say that the good news is that there is a national minority budget for 2019 for projects in the area of culture worth 30 million dinars. The area, by the way, has been chosen by the national minority councils themselves, and the Human and Minority Rights and Freedoms Sector oversees the implementation of these projects. The resources are used by institutions, associations, foundations, companies and other organisations whose founders are just the advice of national minorities, as well as civil sector organisations dealing with the protection and improvement of the rights of members of national minorities. It is good to say that government support has received as much as 91 projects, out of which 14 projects are currently related to improving the culture of the Roma national minority, and in 27 other projects that are multiculturalally represented by Roma, besides other minorities. A good example of how Roma's position is promoted is the Roma Education Fund project, which was supported by the government, which organised training for two Roma minority interns for three months. What I would also point out as important is the collection of data on the number of supported projects by units of local self-government. It is very important to lower some problem from the republican level to the level of the local community. For now, 131 units of local self-government have provided data, 82 of which already carry out such projects, which is good data. Also, with the support of the Council of Europe, the project "Commitment of Human Resources in Local Self-Government Units" is being implemented, with a better view of members of the Roma minority in employment, which will certainly affect their better position in our country. We are witnessing positive macroeconomic developments in the previous period, which is the result of good policy and the appropriate measures carried out by the government, with the aim of growing economic and investment activities, the development of entrepreneurship, the development of scientific technologies, advanced technologies, the creation of new jobs, and above all with the aim of reducing the unemployment rate. If we look at the last three years, we will get information that at one point in 2017 the unemployment rate was 11%, at the same time the employment rate was 48%. So now it continues with the reform of labour legislation, the work of inspection services is being improved, it is working to promote investment from subsidies and, overall, a better climate is being created for employment. The goal is to keep the unemployment rate below 10%, which it is working on, among other things, and the National Employment Service with the implementation of its programmes and projects. Since the beginning of August of this year, let's say, we have data that unemployment is 10.3%, which is an indication that we are on a good path, if we go back a little bit, which wasn't that long ago, and if we remember that in 2012, unemployment has gone 25%. So, in addition to efforts to reduce poverty and improve the standard of living, citizens are also going to plan for a one-time payment of 5,000 dinars to all pensioners. Also, in the coming days, we are expected to discuss budget rebalancing where we will be able to hear what happened in the previous year, that is, all the increases in wages and pensions, what awaits us by the end of this year, but we will be able to discuss some of the things that await us next year. Serbia's government is tasked, Serbia's government faces challenges to prevent social decomposition, to prevent negative trends from the past, to allow Serbia to be a socially fairer society and to implement measures that will reduce poverty and better protect the most vulnerable population. Another project I would like to mention is of importance - Social Protection Services for sensitive groups, which implies co-operation between the Serbian government and local self-government units. It is about improving social protection services related to sensitive groups of administrations, so people with disabilities, children, women, older people, victims of violence, in general Roma, migrants, etc. It is very important to support solving problems in local communities where these problems arise. From what I have stated, we can conclude that a large number of recommendations that we can see in your report are actually respected, that is, further work is being done by implementing the measures already planned in each ministry. Yes, there are shifts both in the Republic and in the province, but also at the local level because the problem that has arisen has been solved because of any grounds for discrimination. And it's also positive that lately we've been seeing more and more often that it's also acting preventively, which is actually the most needed thing. For example, one of the recommendations in your report is to strengthen the capacity of the social work centre. This report refers to 2018. It was in 2018 that a number of meetings were held with the directors of all social work centres and social protection institutions in order to establish concrete measures to improve their work. Government support for social work centres was continued in 2019. This applies primarily to helping local self-government units through dedicated transfers and through some project financing. So we have to have a complete picture. In order to be able to talk about an area, we also need to have the analysis that you have made in the report, but also, on the other hand, we need to know some other things that the Serbian Government has been working on and will continue to work on. The SNS MPs will support your report in voting day. We will vote for the adoption of that report. I just want to end with that, and I want to say something, I can't get the impression when we're talking about discrimination, you know that there are elections in Kosovo and Metohija on October 6th, so when there's pressure on the Serbian list to throw "Serbia" out of the pre-election video and put "The State of Kosovo" on the part of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, I want to ask you if it's discrimination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61213	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. I apologize, before we move on to this list of MPs, the word has the trustee Branko Jankovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61214	Dear People's MPs and MPs, I will now, however, give several sequences after these opening statements of yours, and of course I will answer individual questions later. I would now, above all, like to thank you, is not here, Mrs Karanac, to conclude that the report is comprehensive and detailed and that it contains one real state, and that most MPs agree with recommendations, but also with other parts of the report. This is exactly my chance, given that National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic pointed out a few things and said that in the meantime some recommendations were respected, which is true, but you must consider that it is now October 1st, and that we will only be given a cross-section for this year. There are many recommendations that must be met continuously, some problems as most MPs have said in this opening part, there is also a consistent situation and a lot of what has been done, but it has also been established what needs to be done in the next period. It's also an opportunity for me to say that complaints to the Trustee are certainly one of the indicators of the presence of discrimination in society, but not the only one. And we, due to the report, always give a brief overview of all relevant and accessible research and other data of importance for the assessment of the situation, because all these factors affecting are, in fact, a social, cultural context and the relationship of society to discrimination, and the civic awareness of the necessity and importance of respect for human rights, respect for regulations, the willingness to report their violation, degree of tolerance towards diversity, trust in work and institutions, knowledge of the basics and forms of discrimination and civil society activities in the protection of human rights. So, all of this affects, and that's why we're giving this whole review of the situation so that you, the MPs, can benefit from the fact that you here, in the end of the day, create public policies. I would like to refer to the presentation of the People's MP, Mr. Torbica, because I fully agree that it is true that it is the task of all of us to fight together, for a better society in which we all want to live. To clarify the finding, Mrs Yevdzic, but also Mrs Maras, stressed the largest number of complaints concerning persons with disabilities, although I said so in this opening statement, however, I say that increasing the number of complaints does not necessarily mean worsening the situation. On the contrary, it may mean that citizens are encouraged to report, besides, we invite them ourselves as an institution that exists and that you have formed because it is a free protection for citizens from discrimination and they need to be addressed and we need to solve each individual case, because each individual case means welfare for society. In that sense, I wanted to say that we don't really need to see it as a problem because Mrs, MP Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, also said that he might have worried about the larger number. That's no reason to worry. In particular, when it comes to persons with disabilities, civil society organisations have conducted extensive research. As a result, the number of complaints increased as it referred to the accessibility of polling stations, which she had just shown before the Macura People's Parliament's Break and should work on further accessibility. What's good is that all the municipalities against whom the complaint was filed, accepted mediation, committed themselves, and no one had bad intentions. Someone realized there was no intention. That's right. In most cases, there was no intention that was not relevant to giving our opinion whether or not there was discrimination, but there is a willingness to slowly remove barriers. What I wanted to refer to in the presentation of Parliamentarian Torbica is a question that is related to the conduct of the centre in the process of giving an opinion on the confidence of children and the exercise of parental rights and that I am somewhere completely in agreement. That's why he's a trustee, and you don't have it in this report right now, because our recommendation was to the social work centres in 2017. When we have just notified that there is a problem and have recommended measures to the centres for social work that, in each individual case, when they decide, when they actually give an opinion and participate in the process of trusting children, they do not make their decision on the basis of abusive prejudices on the roles of mothers and fathers, that is, men and women, they are already handling each individual case with the best interests of the child. He is not in the hall right now, but I would like to thank the MP Marija Jevdzic in particular, not only for the commendation of the report, but for showing us something that our institution has not been sufficiently concerned with, but also this opportunity for us to hear, which is that there was not enough attention to the unequal treatment and discrimination of women in sports and that we should put this issue on the agenda, despite the fact that there is no dilemma that according to the regulations they are placed in the same position and that the Ministry of Sports really respected the recommendation and that it is true that our paralympics are placed in exactly the same position as the Olympics, that the awards for the best places in all sports competitions are equally treated, but that there is still plenty of room. Also, National MP Natasa Mihajlović Vacic concluded that we do not have enough communication. I agree with that, but if it's right now at all, but we're not here to find fault for what. Obviously there is a desire and will to cooperate more, because these are issues where we could talk much more often and much more, but well now we also have the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, which immediately called for a session after the appointment. It seems to me that we can communicate much more often, not only when discussing the report is in the plural, but that there are different committees dealing with, such as the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the Committee on the Rights of the Child, but, of course, in all other aspects and there are various platforms. As for our institutions, you knock on the open door, because I think there are MPs here who have a positive experience. I will be corrected by MP Vladimir Orlic if I am wrong, but in every platform where an opinion is requested, the assistance of our institution is preparing to go to some of the international meetings, where it is necessary to present the Republic of Serbia. Each of us has an obligation to present it in the best possible light, that our report has been used, and when it comes to the Women's Parliamentary Network, they have always helped and provided all relevant information. In the end, that is our obligation, and we are the institution chosen by the National Assembly. A special species, ultimately, help the National Assembly perform all its functions. We're completely in agreement, and we don't see it as a problem whether the number of complaints will increase. At times, as it was this year, I apologize last year, where the number of complaints has increased precisely because of this research by civil society organisations. We had an end to mediation. All Belgrade city municipalities and the city's electoral commission have accepted that these conditions are improving. For example, the Law on financial support for the family with children whose application led to major problems in practice, and in one day 500 and some women who were unsatisfactory by applying, or unequally treated, do not mean that next year we may not have such a situation. Ms. Marjana Maraš, a national MP, pointed out earlier that when we talk about the elders and the People's MP, Torbica stressed that we may not have a real situation there. We do, because in addition to the complaints, we see that our oldest citizens rarely address us for two studies with the Red Cross, about their position in both the city and the village. It is precisely because we could present to you MPs the situation here, point out some problems and later work together to make everyone in our power and within our jurisdiction to improve the situation on the ground. The fact that we are independent state authorities, in the light of the fact that the authorities of the executive public should not interfere with decision-making does not mean that we should not cooperate and work together on the well-being of all our citizens. As for the several findings of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radete, above all thanks to constructive criticisms, it is a good opportunity to hear a different opinion because I think it is very important to hear different opinions and to those with whom we are not in agreement, because it is also good for the work of institutions, but also for the development of society. I'm glad our report was read in detail, but a number of grudges refer to something that is not really part of our jurisdiction, for which the Commissioner is not in charge. The part relating to the award of a journalist's prize and the finding of the award to some journalists and journalists, I do not award the award personally, but a jury composed of all journalists' associations, the OSCE and one representative of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. So, there are all professionals, and it is true that the mentioned text of 2015, although we are discussing a report for the previous year, has been allocated precisely to the text concerning violence against women at a time when there was no Law on Protection against Family Violence, because it should be stressed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has just been extremely committed to this problem and passed a law that in a comprehensive way solved cracks in a system that existed in terms of lack of coordination, accountability, etc. However, regardless of the law clearly passed, we face the problem of violence, including the problem. Now this problem is differently enlightened because violence is increasingly reported, which is logical, because if we talked about it, we have passed the law and called on victims of violence to report, to report, that today we will have a situation where we can realize that violence has increased. That doesn't necessarily mean it's true at all, they show relevant data that sometimes violence is reported only after 10 years, that women have suffered after 10-15 years. I speak to women, which does not mean that there are no men victims of violence, but that women were more often victims and that they reported violence more often. We have a completely different situation today. Today it is spoken openly, because we as a serious state and society should not close our eyes to the problem, as the authorities did not close, but they solved the problem. Also, as regards the novelty of gender-sensitivity and findings, i.e. the criticism that I am illegally signing, that I refer to female MPs as MEPs, I remind you that the Law on Prohibit of Discrimination, adopted in 2009, in Article 2 which prescribes that all concepts used in malehood include the same names for female origin, and that the national strategy on gender equality, as well as the strategy for prevention and protection against discrimination, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is one of the objectives set by the use of a gender-sensitative language. We are all here to witness that, of course, language reflects reality in society and that things can be done in words when they are spoken and not spoken. Also, the 1896 Serbian Church newspaper, where the president, cashier, delinquent and numerous members were signed alongside Queen Natalia in 1896, so we could say that this is also a Serbian tradition, because I am happy to have Vesnik in front of me and I will gladly share it with all the MPs who want to see that it is actually a gender-sensitative language and part of our tradition. National MP Verica Radeta also mentioned our training to companies and companies related to the code of equality, which part of the company adopted. I have to say that we were equally pleased by both the American and Russian and Chinese companies and all the other companies where our workers, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that this is an activity that actually contributes to their better and more equal position on the labour market and that we really care about every company, not just the American, or the American Chamber of Commerce, and one of the first companies that signed our Charter of Equality is NIS. As for the finding of our failure to respond to the printing of textbooks for Serbian children in Croatia, I must say that the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality of the Republic of Serbia does not have the authority to act outside the territory of our country. I must say that we are following and, as you have seen, and I stressed in the opening statement, we insist on regional co-operation, which also insists on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you here, MPs, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, as very important for our further development, which is that we also have good co-operation with all nine institutions for equality in Southeast Europe. We saw, and we had this co-operation, that Croatia, the Croatian Ombudsman, has just highlighted in its previous two reports that Serbs represent the most disciplined social group. As for the finding that we are not engaged in the position of our most discriminated social groups which are in the most difficult position, including the elderly, the finding that we are not engaged in enough incomes, insufficient incomes and our pensioners, but also the minimum salaries, it can certainly be, of course, I hear a different opinion, but it can be a personal observation, because in our report the largest part is dedicated precisely, which is a little before the other MPs and MPs who participated in the discussion, concerning the position of our oldest, where we especially insist on their difficult position and that during the next period, it is necessary to specifically devote themselves to the lack of services. One of our most important initiatives, in which we have dedicated ourselves in particular, is the relaxation of property conditions to achieve monetary social assistance for the most vulnerable in rural areas. Of course, it's not all our jurisdiction. We would very much like both salaries and pensions to be higher, but it takes time and further work to improve our economy, further work on better investments, so that one day everyone has a much better chance of a better position on the labour market, and that later means a better position during the period of pensions, in that third lifetime. National MP Tijana Macura has found and praised our work precisely on several initiatives that we have submitted to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs to amend the Law on Financial Support for the Family with the children and our initiative for the assessment of constitutionality. However, in order for you MPs to be informed that we did not wait for the law to be passed and that we did not do anything, because it is our obligation, we, when the draft law was delivered, gave us two negative opinions and realized that these provisions would cause a problem in practice. However, unlike most laws where we had understanding somewhere and where most of the ministries or authorised legislators respected these objections, we simply did not have such a situation here and there was a problem with applying in practice, which is why we launched an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this law on several provisions, and especially the first, of course, we do not think that any other minor, which relates to the position of children with disabilities, because their parents were forced to choose between two rights. You all know what I'm talking about - the one that refers to the right to other people's care and help and that we would have to give up our right to leave for child care, to exercise the right to this kind of help. It is good that in the meantime, as I told you in the presentation, from the ministry and from the government, there has been a positive response to the preparation of amendments and amendments to the law, and that we do not have to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision, because this is very important, to improve the situation and solve family problems with children with disabilities. I will answer your individual questions later, but I simply felt that we would not wait until the end now, I would like to thank you for your commendation of the work on our regular report, because indeed behind it is a dedicated and continuous work of all my colleagues and colleagues in the professional service of the Commissioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61215	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. Now the word has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61216	Two things. First, Mrs. Jankovic obviously wouldn't listen to me, or pretend she didn't understand. I did not talk about textbooks for Serbian children in Croatia, but I said that in Croatia books are printed for children in Serbia, for school children in Serbia. That's a big difference. Otherwise, when you mentioned Serbian children in Croatia, we have never heard you talk about the position of Serbs in Croatia, Montenegro, where our rights are really so threatened that anyone who does public work should talk about it and remind us of it. But you reminded me, when you mentioned the church, in my previous presentation, I left out to say that you, Mrs. Jankovic, were harshly offended by the Serbian Orthodox Church and His Holiness, the Serbian patriarch. Serbia's Orthodox Church and His Holiness, the patriarch of Serbia's Iriney, issued a certain statement concerning the increase in the birth rate in Serbia. What the church's attitude is, it's the church's attitude. You then answered and said that Serbia is a world state and that the church must not interfere in such matters. That was really offensive to both the SPC and all the SPC believers. It is true that Serbia is a world state and it is true that the church cannot and should not interfere in the state, and vice versa. But how do you think that, from what do you draw your right to say that the patriarch cannot speak publicly to the believers, because that means it? If the patriarch speaks and says that everything needs to be done to increase birth, that women are born, etc., he speaks to whoever wants to hear him. He addresses SPC believers who accept the views of the patriarch. If you don't accept, you have no right, and you said that, you issued a statement in which you resented the patriarch and the SPC, you said they should not interfere in this species, I say, the world's part of life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61217	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61218	As I said, we do not have jurisdiction outside our country regarding the position of Serbs you have instructed in Croatia, Montenegro and beyond. But it's absolutely incorrect not to be interested. And I just found out that the Croatian Ombudsman's staff in the Republic has found that Serbs are one of the most disciplined social groups in their report. Unfortunately, we do not have jurisdiction in the territory outside our country, so in this respect, it is the obligation of the institutions of independent and independent human rights, which should protect the right to equality, including the right to the equality of Serbs in other countries, as well as in our region. As for the finding that in any of our statements there was an insult to the Serbian patriarch, that is absolutely incorrect. This, therefore, is not a warning that applied in 2018, but I think it was something earlier, but it is less important now, in fact, a date, in fact, more precisely, in the 27th of October 2017 in which we found that the Republic of Serbia towards the Constitution is a secular state in which everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and that reproductive rights and freedoms fall within the human rights corpus which must not be questioned and that imposing women on birth as a obligation and a patriarchal pattern, as the only acceptable, is actually harmful throughout society. In this statement, and also now, we do not dispute that a population policy, as one of the most important policies in all countries facing demographic challenges, which, unfortunately, includes our country, involves all birth-enhancing mechanisms, but which include both women and men equally. Because somehow you can get the impression that it's actually women who are guilty of not giving birth and this kind of demographic structure, and that, you're all witnesses, absolutely not true. The reasons for our demographic structure are much wider, much deeper, problems date back to a much earlier period, it's not just today. All countries are facing each other. A few days ago, one of the MPs found that such a situation was also in the region, but we certainly will not worry about how it is in these countries, although perhaps we should consider and see what these are actually the main causes of young people going to developed countries, but others, of course, are the causes of migration. This would require an entire special session, because both social and population policy may be something that interests and cares for our citizens the most. In this statement, we have found that we respect the autonomy of the SPC and other religious communities and the religious feelings of all our citizens and citizens, but that the speeches of church dignitaries should remain within religious issues and do not go into the question of the civilization flows of democratic societies among which is one of the most important and respect for human rights and freedoms. It would seem that, of course, the church has the right, on the contrary, to support that, in the context of its activities and through the media, it is its views, but that the statements of some, therefore, some only in the individual statements of church dignitaries, were, unfortunately, offensive to women and deepened those prejudices and stereotypes that could later lead, and in the end, lead to discrimination against women, because you saw in the report that women have been at the very top of the number of complaints for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61219	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61220	First of all, you say you have no authority to protect the rights of the Serb people outside the state of Serbia. No one's sending you to protest in Vukovar because they were taking down Cyrillic plates, but you have to keep an eye on your address, you have to protect every Serb in public wherever he lives. It's your obligation, as it is to me, as it is to anyone. You can't, you say, if you don't have the right to act out of bounds. You're full of briefings with the British ambassador, with the American, and I don't know any clerks, you're making some kind of Balkan association, etc. You're making up some new continent that should be, I guess, some new Yugoslavia or I don't know what. So, you can do all that, and you can't protect the interest of the Serb people. You can't because you won't. You can't because you belong to the so-called. The civil sector, which takes care of everything, is not just about Serbs and Serbian national interests. You're saying you're talking about human rights, constitutional rights, when it comes to a statement I've mentioned to you that you've issued against the speech of the Serbian patriarch. Isn't that a religious question? You're saying constitutionally the real issue of birth? Isn't religious law constitutional law? Is there no right for the patriarch of Serbia to address believers, women who want to respect what the patriarch says? Isn't the role of the SPC to do everything, including by addressing the public to increase the number of newborn children in Serbia? Should not SPC take care that as many Serbian children as possible are born in Serbia? You should. How is he going to say that, except for the religious service? In public, in every place. Isn't there a right for SPC and our patriarch to go public on every subject? How do you usurp constitutional rights only where you think it should exist? Yes, the birthright and women's rights are different constitutional rights, but the religious question is constitutional law, and you can't in any way... You yourself read the parts of that statement and confirmed, in fact, what we claimed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61221	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Mrs. Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course the patriarch has the right to address the believers of the SPC, to express his position. Once again, because I think and yet again, it is very important that we hear different opinions, because we need to develop a much better culture of dialogue, because it alone can contribute to the development of society. Once again, what we disputed and found in our warning was very important, was the part that referred only to the kind of accusation of women not to be born. So, and right to abortion. That is all that has been expressed in public space, not in religious service. My last finding is that I hope we're not here to determine who the greater patriot is because I don't think we should ask that question. I can claim myself responsible for all the employees of this institution, but of course, first of all, for myself, because I don't know what that degree of patriotism would be. One thing's for sure. Where my name is, it doesn't matter what the platform, the meeting, the conference, from the highest to the lowest level, where my name, the institution that I am currently running, stood for the Republic of Serbia and its flag, was presented to our country in the best possible way and its interests were protected in every way, and most of the conclusions I would draw and present to Serbia, as an example of good practice, including those, MP Zaric Kovacevic mentioned, which referred to the position of national minorities, presented as something which is an example of how it should be, but of course, and what is the problem and which we are ready to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61223	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61224	So it's just amazing that it occurred to you that you were warning the SPC, so first you said that the church and the state were separate. How can you even warn the SPC because the Serbian patriarch expressed SPC views? You say it was in public, and it's not at the service. Don't Serbian patriarch and SPC have the right to advertise in public? You resented that the patriarch said that women are not giving birth enough. Who gives birth to women. You say, "You resented the patriarch who is against abortion. Is it possible that you think that you have the right to tell a church that it can't be against abortion? Is it possible that you can tell anyone in Serbia, you can represent your position... A few months ago in the US, Alabama passed an abortion ban law. Is this the most democratic country in the world, the United States? In several states there is no abortion. You're saying now that anyone in Serbia can't take a different view than yours. It's just amazing. You can't actually have your own personal attitude. Your personal position is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law which obliges you to act, and you to warn the Serbian Orthodox Church or any church or religious community... Where do you get that right from? It is truly amazing, and I say, you have no right to warn anyone about any part of society or any part of the state of Serbia. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, their views and religious and political and human and individual and whatever. You have no right or authority to warn anyone because he thinks differently from you, Snow White Chongradin, Jerkov, Marines, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61225	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. We're moving on with our work. According to the list, the first on the list is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, Dr. Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61226	Thank you, Vice President. Respected associates, this report shows that you have practically covered all areas, i.e. segments from the section covering the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, but I would ask you to explain some of the items and some of the positions in the table. Namely, in the recommendations you made at 29 points, under point 19, among other things, you say – i.e. You mention some continuous activities in raising awareness and identifying and obligation to report violence. What activities were you thinking about, unless you're the classic stands with this topic? Also, this part of point 19 can be connected to point 16. In which you highlight raising information by these rights and services. That actually means, taking into account all these activities, you need media. A colleague earlier talked about good communication, about active communication, and in that sense, I think that the more citizens of Serbia should talk about your activities to simply get that information, but in terms of informing about the outcomes of all recorded, i.e. the items you've handled, which can be seen in the table at the end of your report. In the end, even in the report, somewhere on, I think, page eight, you say that there is a speech in the media and in the public space that characterizes hate speech, sensationalism, offensive reporting, etc., and that in this sense special attention and responsible reporting of violence is needed. My question is, did you, when you evaluated it nicely and some funding in your budget for next year for a serious media campaign, not to have this topic and to have an effect first, which has changed and raised the awareness of Serbian citizens when it comes to this area of social life? Furthermore, under point 22 of your report, you say that all necessary measures need to be taken to ensure that the composition of local government authorities and other public authorities corresponds to the national composition of the population in their area. I must tell you that the SDPS advocates in its programme the consistent implementation of existing but also the creation of new measures to increase and facilitate participation of minority and other social groups. So, for example. One of the so-called models. The principle of an empty chair is one place in local congregations, as well as in municipal and city councils that would be foreseen for representatives of social groups with the right to discuss, or to participate in the debate, but not only when it comes to human rights, but when it comes to agendas and issues of public importance. After all, you also have in the Planning Act, which we adopted at the beginning of the year, that citizens consult in the decision-making process. Dear Commissioner, this is a jubilee year, precisely 10 years of existence and the application of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, which, as we know, has caused significant controversy in Serbian society, so I ask you, do we need any proposals, such as these or similar changes, to work and to make the law itself as effective as possible and to enable minority participation in all local self-governments in Serbia? Another question, in the form of a question, and I think counterpart Zaric has already opened the issue of Nis and southern Serbia, Southeast Serbia. On page 267, in a table called - complaints by regions, when you mention the region of southern and eastern Serbia, number 103 or 10.4%, what specific complaints are you referring to, or what is the most concerned by this number, which dominate the most? Also, on page 247 in the table under the heading – areas of social relations, to which complaints primarily apply when we speak, or what we see in the table, that numbers refer to culture, art, sport, as well as education and professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61227	Thank you, Dr. Jelenkovic. Now the word has Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61228	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected Commissioners with co-workers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, is now on the agenda to discuss the regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018, the 9th Regular Report on the State in the field of protection of equality. The report includes another year of continuous and intensive work in accordance with the mandate and competences entrusted to this institution and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Key data from the report, opinions and recommendations have been presented, and in particular general recommendations for the fight against discrimination and the improvement of equality have been presented. In order to make it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to explain the role of this institution. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is an independent, independent and specialised state body, established under the 2009 Law on Prohibition of Discrimination. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chose Mrs Branko Jankovic as the new Trustee for the Protection of Equality on 27 March 2015. The tasks of this State Authority are to prevent all aspects, forms and cases of discrimination, to protect the equality of natural and legal persons in all forms of social relations. Part of the activities of the Commissioner concern the establishment and maintenance of co-operation with authorities responsible for achieving equality and protection of human rights in the territory of the AP and local self-government, as well as with civil society organisations, international and domestic organisations, human rights institutions. During 2018, the Trustee acted in 1,407 cases. In addition to the proceedings under appeal, the Commissioner has made 300 recommendations under the powers to achieve equality, four proposals have been submitted to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, three criminal charges, one anti-discrimination suit and one request for the initiation of the infringement procedure. The largest number of complaints have been filed because of discrimination based on disability, age and gender, and public services or the use of facilities and surfaces, work and employment and procedures before authorities are provided in social relations. During 2018, the trustee conducted two studies, and thus the data obtained are important both for the work of institutions and for the various social actors, for the creation and management of public policies. The Commissioner also published two manuals, conducted numerous trainings, workshops and lectures from the field and recognition and reaction to discrimination involving many social life actors, including police officers, labour inspectors, representatives of local self-government, media and civil society organisations, and seminars were held on the subject of civil and legal protection against discrimination against judges all four appeals. In order to encourage local self-government, to create and implement different affirmative policies, the "municipalities/city of equal opportunities" award was also established. This report points out that our society continues to face a number of challenges in improving equality. The existing anti-discrimination legislation in Serbia laid the basis for improving equality and combating discrimination, but the legal framework needs to be improved and harmonised with EU legal assets and international standards. The representation of discrimination in society is influenced by other factors, including the social and cultural context in which we live, the degree of tolerance towards diversity, trust in the work of institutions, education on the recognition of forms of discrimination and other activities of all parts of society in the protection of human rights. In addition to the Commissioner, it should be noted that the courts have an extremely important role to play and that in 2018, they were implemented in full of the individual recommendations made by the Trustee in its 2017 annual report. At the end of 2018, the national line for women victims of violence began and many strategic plans were adopted accordingly. Discrimination is prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that all are equal before the Constitution and the law, that everyone has the right to equal legal protection without discrimination. Realising the importance of respect for human rights and respect for the principles of equality, the Republic of Serbia has in recent years developed an adequate anti-discrimination framework and ratified the most important universal and regional agreements in the field of human rights and the ban on discrimination. The European Commission's 2018 report states that the law prohibiting discrimination in our country is in line with European standards, but further harmonisation is needed. In particular, anti-discrimination laws, such as the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Gender Equality are significant. The legal protection system on discrimination in the Republic of Serbia covers civil-law, criminal and criminal justice mechanisms. The report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018 is very brief, comprehensive and detailed on what has been done. Certain recommendations have also been made in this area – to develop strategic documents relating to prevention and protection of discrimination, improving persons with disabilities, developing social protection, developing mental health, preventing and protecting children from violence, developing adult education, socially responsible business, ageing strategies and others. It is important to improve the availability of education for children with disabilities, developmental disturbances, Roma children as well as access to higher education, measures and activities for equal representation of women and men in all areas of political and public life, fostering employment and economic empowerment of women. It is necessary to improve the coordinated and efficient functioning of all institutions of the system in providing protection against domestic violence and other forms of violence, with the development of services to support victims of violence. Take measures to eliminate discrimination and the stigmatisation of LGBT persons, improve the situation of Roma and Roma women, as well as the situation of old people and perhaps the most important recommendations to programmes and plans, provide for the implementation of measures and activities at all levels to stop young people from leaving Serbia. What I would like to commend in this report, first of all, as a woman, is an initiative by the Commissioner addressed to the Belgrade City Assembly to determine the names and markings of the streets, squares and buildings, to name the famous women of our society. I'll quote you - our society was not only made by men but also by women. Effective functioning of all social mechanisms to protect against discrimination is necessary. Every human being needs respect and respect, and that is why it is necessary to educate children to respect others, to respect differences, because that is why we are building a better and more tolerance for Serbia. The Commissioner stressed that she continues with a proactive approach aimed at providing even more effective protection from discrimination in the future and working to improve equality. I am convinced that in this way we together contribute to building a better society that will stand on the basis of tolerance, equality and respect for the human rights of all our citizens and citizens. At the very end, I would like to wish this institution as little complaints as possible in the next period, which would be a sign to us that we are becoming a growing and more tolerated society when it comes to diversity. To conclude, the report is very detailed and contains a comprehensive review of the situation and relevant data that may be relevant for further creation and improvement of public policies. That is why I propose that it be adopted, which will be done by the SPS parliamentary group in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61229	Thank you, Mrs. Ivkovic. Now the word has Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61230	Dear Commissioner, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to remind ourselves that 10 years ago, the National Assembly passed the Law on the ban on discrimination, putting itself in line with democratic societies that recognized the problem of discrimination and laid down measures and activities to combat any kind of discrimination. We have defined discrimination as an uneven treatment of an individual or a group, based on some of their personal properties, resulting in an inequality in the chances of achieving the Constitution and the law guaranteed by rights. So it's an inequality of treatment, treatment, exclusion, or bringing into a subordinate position of an individual or a group of people, who are in the same, similar or comparable situation. Discrimination can also be done on the basis of disability, age, gender, marital or family status, nationality and ethnic origin or sexual orientation, etc. A regular report given for equality for 2018, and such a report is submitted to the National Assembly for the ninth time, suggests that the prevention of discrimination in all segments of society on the basis of these personality characteristics is being paid greater attention. According to the ranking of the volumes of discriminatory actions, as shown in the report, the most discrimination cases were based on disability in 2018. When the areas of discrimination are observed, the report noted that, unfortunately, the area of public service is the first place. In the second area of work and employment, there are third proceedings before public authorities and the fourth area of public information and media. For whatever reason, in any segment of life to have a discriminatory relationship, it prevents citizens from exercising their rights entirely equal to equal opportunities before the law. I would refer to a few sentences concerning the report on the achievement of minority national rights. According to a 2018 report by the Commissioner, discrimination based on nationality and ethnic origin has been ranked sixth, with no data available for KIM. When it comes to the rights of national minorities and ethnic groups, I must point out that Serbia has a constitutional and legislative framework that gives national minorities rights that are greater than and greater than the rights that minorities have in many developed countries of the world. One of the significant rights is that minorities have the legal opportunity to choose their organs, primarily national councils, as well as other committees, which actually exercise all rights in the autonomy of education, culture, information, language and letters. Last year, elections were held for national councils. 22 national councils were elected in the elections, so 22 national minorities received their organs. The report discusses the presence of discrimination in the employment of members of national minorities in state bodies, and of course there are problems. The problem can exist if minority members do not speak Serbian, which is the official language in the Republic of Serbia. In local communities where minorities have over 10% presence, there are necessarily translators for minority languages. Minority members also work in state authorities, but it cannot be expected, for example, that a member of a minority should be employed in Kragujevac, if he does not know the official language of the country in which he lives. We must not view Serbia as a foreign country from a minority angle, especially not respecting the Constitution and laws. That is what some minorities, or rather their leaders of some minorities, try and apply today. Serbia is a multiethnic space, the country with the most national minorities in the environment, which is why improving the position of national minorities and achieving minority rights is important for creating interethnic trust and respect. Life in multiethnic communities is a two-way process. It is necessary, on the one hand, for the state to ensure that minority rights are used, but on the other hand, it is important that minorities accept and respect the country in which the majority people live, as the majority people should not only provide guaranteed rights, but through the creation of a cultural social environment foster multiethnicity. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to know and appreciate each other more and to realize that every minority here in Serbia has the rights to express their specificities, but that it should integrate into society so that I can develop, educate and preserve my heritage. In any case, the report you submitted for equality is a good rapper, not only for the analysis of the situation, but also for the identification of weaknesses and weak points that need to be translated through mutual understanding and support into the benefits of Serbia as a multinational state. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61231	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Equality Commissioner, you have stated that progress on equality is the fact that a female parliamentary group has been formed. The female parliamentary group that was formed in Parliament in Parliament, is it then discrimination that there is no male parliamentary group in this House? Secondly, do you know that Serbs in the AP KiM area cannot get passports that are identical to the passports of us living in central Serbia and Vojvodina? Even when they get passports in central Serbia's territory, the Republic of Serbia writes -- the co-ordination board. With that passport, they have to take out Schengen visas next to that passport. Why are Serbs, Serbian citizens with KIM discriminated against? Furthermore, when will we allow and insist on the EU and all other international organisations that every Serb evicted from KIM must be able to return to their hearths? When are we going to insist that those who have destroyed monasteries, churches, cemeteries and all other objects must rebuild them? When did we put in a protest that Serbs with kiM could at least go and visit their graves at KIM? We keep it quiet. Furthermore, when will the citizens of Serbia be able to vote electronically on temporary work abroad? Because, please, how is it possible for people living in Canada, America, Australia, China and Russia to go thousands of miles to vote in several places where voting is organised and where there are more members of the voting committees than there are voters when everything is gathered? Furthermore, when will you protect and highlight the citizens in the rural area, who have eliminated the basic rights to life, including building a mini hydropower plant at 15 meters from the window of the house without any sound insulation? I'd like to see someone build a mini power plant on Topcider River 15 meters from the building window and see how your citizens react. Furthermore, please explain to me what term you as the Trustee of Equality use as a Serbian translation of LGBT, so as not to make a mistake? Considering that we have the right to use all the names in Serbian. I also delivered this photo to you before the session began. Please explain if this is a violation of equality? What are the provisions that could lead to this? Does this mean that tomorrow someone can put a picture of the cardinal, the mufti, the rabbi instead of the patriarch? Would you react then? Why can only Serbian church heads be the subject of demeaning and those who have life functions, not election ones for five years or four years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61233	Thank you, Professor. The word is Dr Branimir Rancic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61234	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Mrs Jankovic, honored guests, respected MPs, as a neuropsychiatrist doctor in my 35-year practice, I met with the problem of domestic violence and the most diverse psychopathology that dominates domestic violence. I'm glad that in your presentation you mentioned Gajin Han municipality in a positive way, because I also made a small contribution to co-operation with Gajin Han's Social Work Centre, working as a neuropsychiatrist in the House of Health and being their consultant. So it makes sense that I'm going to talk about domestic violence now. Violence in the family differs from all other forms of violence, as women are affected in a proportionally larger proportion. Under violence against women, every act of violence is based on a gender that leads or can lead to a different sexual or psychological injury or the suffering of a woman, including threats to such actions, coercion or arbitrarily deprivement of the right to freedom whether it occurs in public or private life. Violence against women, as a form of violent behavior, was present throughout history in various social systems. Another thing is how much it is and in which cultures are perceived as undesirable, or forbidden behavior. The perception of violence against women has changed over time in Western civilization, both at national and international level. Only 30 years ago, violence against women was not considered an issue of international attention or concern. This is starting to change in the 1980s, when women groups, organised locally or internationally, began to draw attention to physical and psychological violence, as well as to the economic abuse of women. According to the European Commission, in Europe 25% of all acts of violence reported include violence against men against their wives or partners. Gradually, violence against women has been recognised as a legitimate human rights issue that has a significant impact on women's well-being. Today, the international issue is focused on gender-based violence. Because of its spread, violence against women is a leading problem in the domain of human rights. As root violence against women lies deep in the structure of society, violence is a very common form of human rights violations, both in Serbia and Europe. In international documents, violence begins to be considered only in the 1990s. One of the most important documents for women's human rights is the Convention on the Disruption of All Forms of Women's Discrimination, adopted in 1979. It lays down criteria for the identification and assessment of discrimination against women around the world. Violence is recognised as a burning problem only in 1993, by adopting a Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women of the UN and is placed in the priority area of action, achieving equality between men and women. Therefore, our duty is to the state: firstly, to clearly define certain forms of violence against women; secondly, to ensure adequate legal protection of women victims of violence; thirdly, to prevent violence against women by taking appropriate measures in order to change attitudes in the role and position of men and women in society, to raise public awareness of the problem of violence against women, to establish adequate mechanisms of legal, psychological and social protection and to help women victims of violence, to provide adequate professional training of employees in the institutions of the system, to increase the degree of responsibility of the media in preventing violence and overcoming patriarchal social forms that produce violence; fourthly, to provide comprehensive protection and assistance to women victims of violence by setting up counselling, services for victims, shelters, as well as to develop a rehabilitation programme for the violent and fifth, to encourage and to promote and to promote the law enforcement of women and statistics, to ensure that they are consistent with the laws of law and standards of law, and standards of law enforcement of law, and to the law enforcement of women. Finally, to conclude professionally, violence is no reaction to stress, nor is violence an effect. As our people would say, it was not a man who broke, that it could not be controlled. Violence is a need for domination and complete control, so full control of the victim is established, in this case, of women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61235	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. Now the word has Danica Bukvić. Here you go, Mrs. Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61236	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Commissioners, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we are facing the Regular 9th Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We see in the report that the Commissioner, as in previous years, received the most complaints from persons with disabilities, from the field of public services or the use of objects, and secondly, complaints based on age, while thirdly, or every tenth complaint refers to gender-based discrimination. With the highest discrimination, citizens meet in the employment process, whether it is discrimination based on disability, age or gender. I'd like to pay particular attention to the problem of gender equality. The gender equality strategy for the period 2018-2023, the Council of Europe focused on preventing and combating gender stereotypes, sexism, preventing and combating violence against women, domestic violence, achieving a balanced participation of women and men in political and public decision-making. In the Republic of Serbia, women are not sufficiently represented in political and public life. Although significant shifts have been made at the republican level, at regional level, however, the situation is different, it is much worse. An insufficient number of women are located in public functions and management posts, and when it comes to local level, it is commendable that under the Law on Gender Equality in the bodies of local self-government, a permanent working body for gender equality is organised. I hope that in some future period we will ensure that women have equal opportunities to participate in all levels of decision-making in political and public life, both at the republican and local level. We are witnessing the fact that domestic violence is especially against women, or gender-based violence, still largely present. Violence against women is a dangerous form of discrimination and is a serious problem in the spheres of cultural, economic, political and social life. I also want to refer to complaints about discrimination based on the state of health. This case of discrimination exists if health services set the conditions for providing health services, which are not justified by medical reasons, refuses to make a diagnosis, provide health information, as well as insult, mistreatment during stay at a health institution. I would point out that in this kind of discrimination between the person following the HIV virus and AIDS, as well as those with malignant melanoma and autism are particularly endangered. It is necessary and I would like to point out the need to improve palatable care in order to improve life and preserve dignity in the last days of life for people in terminal stages of the disease, especially malignant ones. I'm saying this from years of experience, because I've been faced with the suffering of these patients, as their relatives. Unfortunately, healthcare has so far not solved this problem. Of course, the promotion of all kinds of support for children, especially children with disabilities, their inclusion in the education system, the involvement of professional help to children on the street, prevention and protection of children from any type of violence and exploitation is one of the most important priorities. The "Save the Children" organisation published an index on interrupted childhood, taking into account poor health, malnutrition, underage marriages, pregnancy, exclusion from education in which Serbia holds 46th place, out of 175 countries in the world. Given that today is October 1st, the Day of the Elderly, I would point out that the old are entitled to dignified living conditions, especially the right to equal access and protection from neglect, in the use of health and social services. Also, older people, 50 to 65 years old, are victims of employment discrimination. Many who have lost their jobs cannot get back into the work process just because of their age, although this is a great prejudice because the elderly also have a desire, experience, knowledge and wisdom. I would point out that discriminated persons often do not know that there are legal medicines, and that the majority of complaints stemming from the Belgrade region indicate the need for further work on informing citizens about the existing protection mechanisms. The existing law lays the basis for improving equality and combating discrimination, but this legal framework needs to be improved and harmonised with EU legal assets and international standards. It is necessary that we work in the future to eradicate any kind of discrimination and contribute to the construction of a tolerance society in which everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities. I would like to conclude my discussion with the words of Eleanor Roosevelt – a fighter for human rights and equality. Where do human rights begin anyway? In small places, near the house? These places are so close and so small they can't be seen on any map of the world. However, these places are all individuals. A neighborhood where she lives, a school or a college that she attends, a factory, a farm or an office where she works, these are places where every man, every woman and every child seek equal justice, equal opportunities, equal dignity without discrimination. If those rights don't make sense, they don't have it anywhere else. Without a joint civil action to exercise rights near houses, we will look for progress towards the white world in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61237	Thank you, Dr. Bukvich. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61238	I thank the chairman. Mrs Jankovic, the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, we have had the opportunity today to hear various complaints about the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and for the public's sake, I must remind that since 2013, in February, this Women's Parliamentary Network was formed and that thanks to its work in 2016, gender budgeting was introduced as a basis and as a recommendation in all local self-government on the request of the Ministry of Finance. You have also listed the case of the local self-government of Užica in your report, Mrs Jankovic. However, I honestly know that literally in my local government of Sokobanja, birth budgeting is represented, but it is also represented in other local self-governments of Serbia, so I would insist that the next time you have a more content report on birth budgeting. Another thing I would also like to comment on from your report, which is complaints about the state of health that you have recorded in your research that it is 6.1%. I must say that the Government and the Ministry of Health have taken really preventive measures and that preventive checks without appointment and without a health book are being carried out throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which certainly reflects the better health status of the Serbian population. This also reduces the percentage of complaints of the age because you have stated here that the age cannot be ordered by the Internet and other social networks. I think this is really commendable and should be an integral part of your report. Also, in the end, I would mention that you were always judging various attacks. However, I did not notice that you in no public way condemned Bosko Obradovic's attack on our National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, and that you did not condemn Sergei's attack through social networks also to our president, Maja Gojkovic. If I may have missed, here's your chance to correct me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61239	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go, colleague Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61240	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. Dear Commissioners, respected co-workers in the institution of the Trustees, distinguished colleagues and colleagues in a few minutes, I would like to address this report on behalf of the SPS, which is, by all means, substantial and I must confess from everything we have heard today and from you, we have the opportunity to read in the report itself, but also from most of my colleagues, we can congratulate you. This is the ninth report in a row, this is 10 years of work by this institution, and I believe that in the coming period we may be working on a new legislative framework in terms of promotions and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, but also adopting a new Law on Gender Equality. The National Assembly is proud of the co-operation it has with an independent body and I am free to say that the assessment of most of us is that you have succeeded within the framework of the law and legal provisions introduce some practice, ensure continuity of the work of the institution itself, and what may be most important, and the greatest challenge with all the representatives of independent institutions, to provide their independence in the work, and therefore on behalf of the parliamentary group I congratulate you. A lot's been said. I'd look back in a few seconds on these cases we talked about. So, in 2018, you had over 1,400 cases, the most complaints, but also all the accompanying ones, from recommendations, opinions and reactions of the institutions themselves. I agree that it does not necessarily mean an increase in cases, but the awareness of citizens that they can address the institution and that the institution still hears and responds to complaints in accordance with the law. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints were filed against state authorities, or public authorities, which is almost 50.5%, followed by legal and natural persons. I am talking about this particular information because it can be alarming, and it should also be warning for us as MPs, since we still have a legislative but control function in this Parliament, we may be getting closer to getting acquainted with individual cases so that we know that we may point out in the discussion and discussion of the report of the relevant ministries, but we are still talking to the ministry representatives about certain issues. The same quantifiable and visible work of the institution are the research you are conducting, the analyses that are being published. What the trustee needs to know, and I believe that she has experience with the executive authority in the production of sublegal acts, is very valuable to your opinions and recommendations that you have on the proposal for certain laws that come into the procedure in the National Assembly. For the work of the public watching this transmission, I would also like to point out the two extremely significant researches you did last year in order to see the situation in the area of protection against discrimination, which are the attitude of the media in Serbia towards discrimination and the attitude of public authorities to discrimination in Serbia. It is clear that discrimination is happening both indirectly and directly but consciously and unconsciously and through all these publications and similar research can be helpful to each of us, perhaps to raise some hidden stereotypes or prejudices. I would like to commend the manual for the situational testing of discrimination, where co-operation and possible further co-operation with human rights associations are being shown. For me, three focusses are important, and they concern the work of your institution. It is an unequivocal attitude when it comes to women and discrimination against women. Another important direction, that is, your focus that should be commended, is the trans-Community issue, i.e. participation in the breaking up of the trans-Community stigma as perhaps the most sensitive group within the LGBT population. I can freely say that at one point you were even mediators between the public authorities and that community, and that was something that produced results. What is particularly significant is that today is the International Day of the Old. You have one study that's from this year and it's supposed to be commendable, about old women, women of 65+ years. Perhaps in the following year, if you were to organize, or conduct research when it comes to men, I think it would be useful. In any case, you understand that this report is of great quality to us and that we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61241	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61242	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Commissioners for the Protection of Equality with Associates, Honorable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. I was on the SNS list in the assembly and I represent the United Peasant Party. At the Parliament Club that I belong to, it's... National Peasant Party – United Peasant Party. So far, we've always talked about problems, we've brought up problems, and we've always supported everything that's good and good. I will now speak of your report as I come from a small municipality where women rule. The biggest responsibility in the community is women. The president of the municipality is a woman, the president of the assembly is a woman, the head of the municipality is a woman, the head of finance is a woman, and a number of them run by the responsible municipality of Svrlig. Otherwise, your report is about all these problems where we talk about our women's problems. I always potentiate the southeast of Serbia, mountain-mounted areas, potential villages, people in the country, as our women in the country, will soon be the world's Women's Day in the country, which is October 15th, where our women really have a big problem in those villages because they don't have the same conditions of life, they're harder and they work all day, from morning till tomorrow. Therefore, as part of your report, we see this problem, we all have to work together, but I say, it is very important to know that there is a much greater problem in the municipalities of southeast Serbia, mountainous and mountainous areas, in municipalities that are most demographically threatened. These women in our villages are the pillar of our houses, our households, but we must pay much more attention to them not only with this speech, but also financially, that our wife in the country has a better opportunity to get resources that she can exercise certain rights. If a child is born in the country, that woman, this maternity family has at least 50% more resources within those women who are born in the city or in some municipalities that have been developed. By the way, I used to be the president of the municipality, in 2014, we used to extract funds from our budget, where 50% more were always allocated to women, for those children born in the country, women born in the country compared to women living in Srlig. It was of interest to us to see the difference, because it is much harder to live in villages. Every time I talk about our villages on mountainous and mountainous areas, about southeastern Serbia, I always said that it was necessary to allocate more resources for all people living there, who want to create their families, through marriage programs, for newborn children, for unemployed families. We always have to give greater support to such an environment, these people, because we are witnesses that other than those municipalities are the oldest, demographically most endangered, where in some of our villages the average age limit is over 70 years, some municipalities are on average maybe 68 years old. So, these people, within your report, you can see that there are, but we all need not only to speak so declarably, but we really must, and with specific legal proposals to help these people to stay there to live, to stay there to make marriage communities, to have children, and that they can normally work there and finance themselves and their family from their work. Every time we had a meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which we had this morning, I always spoke and potentiated, and I ask that when it comes to the problems of our children to put in a category of children living in the country. A category of children living in the country are children who do not have the same option as children living in the city. These kids don't have kindergartens, these kids don't have shops, there's no water in some villages. When such a child is born, that woman and that child, the family must have much greater separations, not only from the locals, but also from the Serbian budget. I've always talked about it and I'm looking for it because I know that municipalities that are in southeastern Serbia, such as Svrlig, White Palanka, Gajin Han, Meroshina, Bolovac and a large number of such municipalities, in these municipalities it's much harder to live, municipalities are empty, young people go to the white world to work, to earn, to stay their parents. That's why today's the day of old. We also need to provide our old people with better conditions. The municipalities, like my municipality, have no possibility, we don't have, say, an internalist. I need to make sure that all these small municipalities, such as Svrlig, don't repeat what municipalities are, that they have services, that they can visit every household at any time, that they visit that old man. Because these people, these people, they created this country, they kept this country safe, we have to provide them with a safer future. Here, we are now, when I'm talking about my end, we have potential, a large number of old people and a need for a gerontological center. We have a possibility. A gentleman bought an object and wanted to build a nursing home. It's not a good future for such municipalities, but we need to ensure a safe future for our children, for our children, for our women in the country, for people in the country, for everyone living in small municipalities, but we need to provide a safer future for those old people who really have big problems. As an SUV, as a veterinarian, I've been visiting villages where this host, this man who lives alone, he doesn't want his household to give to someone else to use tomorrow's funds through the Social Labour Centre. These people, they're real hosts, they love their country, they love their hearth. So my grandfather taught my father and my father moved on to live in the country because he's a pensioner and I expect to continue my life when the time comes to help my father and stay in the country. Because my grandfather spoke to my father, and my grandfather lived, gave God, 94 years old, said, "Son, don't put out your hearth." Therefore, because of such people, we must protect these old people, help them through the programmes provided by the state of Serbia, through assistance programmes, through geronto-home women, the conditions in the house and all that is needed. Mountain and mountainous areas, the great territory of these municipalities, the big problem is to come when the big snow is, when winter is, when there are great heat, that's why I always talk and talk, I speak from the heart because I know and feel the problems of these people living in southeastern Serbia in mountainous and mountainous areas. We need to provide these people with a better opportunity there to live and provide basic living conditions and to provide more resources from the budget and the Republic of Serbia and local self-government for these people and children in the country, married couples living in the country. If we don't, those municipalities are already empty, they're shutting down, and if we don't, it's very hard for someone to come back tomorrow. Once again, I, as a man, as an MP and as president of the United Peasant Party, will support your report. Normally, I'm always saying what I'm saying right now and that no one resents me, because what I'm saying I know and I feel right next to me. We are such people, good hosts, but believe me, it's very difficult there, in such municipalities, such people. We need to find ways to help them, to provide the young with a safer future, and to make age easier for the elderly. Once again, thank you again, Commissioner. I mean, you were with us with those embassy ladies, a few ambassadors, where on October 15th, women's day in the country got the funds that we provided 40 women, they got to break up, they got the chance to go through plastic production tomorrow, that they could provide their existence. Thanks again. I invite you to work harder and faster and harder, as you say, for these people and to solve together a problem that is really big in such areas as I come from. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61243	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61244	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, respected confidants, Mrs Jankovic, with co-workers, are on the agenda of today's assembly session, a report for the previous year of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Your report, first of all, I want to commend. He's very good, he's circumcised and he's concise. The topic is very exhaustive for discussion, and I would also like your report personally to have as little grounds for discrimination and as little complaints as possible, but you are here as the Commissioner to provide civil and legal protection and to give instructions to Serbian citizens for criminal and criminal justice. Unique Serbia sees the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality very useful and important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their security. We estimate the treatment of citizens' complaints and the recommendations you deliver to us with a high assessment. Therefore, I would like to commend your work and the work of your office, as well as your co-operation with committees, colleagues and I are in the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and we often receive your reports, as well as cooperation with the National Assembly. Unique Serbia is involved in all parliamentary and local programme social flows on the agenda and in improving equality and supporting the social and economic security of citizens. Also, we believe that raising awareness of the degree of anti-discrimination legislation in Serbia achieves a higher level of improvement in equality and combating discrimination. Birth equality is certainly in focus, but it still needs a lot of work. We've been looking here today, according to the report, on the basis of different types of discrimination. We talked about health, discrimination in the field of sports, older citizens. Then, when it comes to sensitive social groups and Roma categories. But what I especially want to focus on is improving and improving the position of young people, especially to shed an emphasis on reducing the high unemployment rate in smaller local environments, so it is necessary to create conditions in an environment where young people will feel safe, safe and equal. The needs of the labour market and the education system should be harmonised in order to reduce the high unemployment rate. Also commendable is your reaction to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, especially when it comes to parents of children with special diseases, which are not covered by the previous law, and children with autism. I expect this law to be found in the procedure of the National Assembly. The third focus of attention I want to draw is the position of women, where, I say, there is great progress in achieving the gender equality of women, and without a woman, there is no overall development of each country individually, and no region in general. In parliament today, we have 94 MPs, and they account for about 38% of the total number of MPs. The path of gender equality and the conquest of greater freedom wasn't a bit easy. Thanks to good laws and regulations, it is possible for women to be substantially improved and to be visible, represented and discriminated against. When it belongs to an environment, which is very important, in which a person lives and whether a certain degree of discrimination will occur, so that socialization and society, media and distractions are very important in every form of discrimination. But when you are surrounded by an environment where you have full respect for a woman, considering her gender equality, considering her the most important link of society, when she participates equally with her colleagues in all parliamentary debates, where a woman is a resource in politics and gives just as good results as a man, where a woman's voice is heard on committees, foreign delegations, political and social life and an environment where equality, moral values, respect for women and national interest are respected, I can freely say that the JS parliamentary group looks at our society with respect and equal involvement of women in all walks of social and political life. As for your report, you will have the full support of the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61245	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ma'am, as you say to yourself, the Commissioner is said in the Serbian people, I have really not thought well of your work, and I must confess that you have not convinced me today of anything contrary to what I thought so far. In fact, you've just confirmed my opinion that you don't understand the essence of your work, but that, above all, you're slaves to certain stereotypes and prejudices. It is well known to you, or should be known that there is no equality where prejudice reigns, and that you, instead of actually moving within your legal powers, are trying to reach out to as many foreign ambassadors as possible, as stereotypes that impose certain NGOs, or organizations funded and instructed by the embassy of Western countries. Your job is to actually promote respect for the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia, and you don't. By your views, you are actually treading and condemning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act, as well as other laws. Here, seeing as you may not understand something, I'll try to explain it to you. You talk persistently about some folk MPs and think, naively, that this way you will contribute to being more respected in Serbian society, thus making fun of both Serbian and Serbian traditions. It should be known to you that SANU, which I hope you appreciate as an institution, and its Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, that they had long ago, back in 2011, when this desecration began, or when it took hold of the wave under the DOS regime, that they had discussed it, and that they had made some recommendations, and that they had found that there should be no need to insult the Serbian language by speaking instead of the MP, which is the constitutional category, will be spoken – the MP, the MP knows what it is, or what you are going to say, the psychologist, the lawyer, and I do not think it helped anyone. Absolutely not. This shows that you do not understand the essence of your work, but that you do, above all, stereotypes and that you respect those who insist on these stereotypes. Here's what SANU says about it. They say – forms of female gender for nouns that mean professions should be used where their use is in accordance with the existing norm and good language practice. When it comes to forms of female gender to mark professions that are not normable or common in language practice, it is right to use generic male gender, e.g. A fighter, a pilot, an academic, because his use does not imply discrimination against women, but involves awareness of the equal social, human value of men and women. Well, he says -- the grammatical category of female origin is not the only means of ensuring the visibility of women in Serbian or any other language, nor can it affect the discrimination or equality of women. Equality does not depend on the use of certain grammatical categories, but on the context in which they are used, i.e. on the meaning of the whole text. Also, texts that do not use the grammatical category of female origin can contain attitudes that affirm gender equality. A positive example is the translation of the UN Charter into Serbian. The Charter stands for every form of equality, even gender equality, but in the text itself, the right of man, not so-called. natively sensitive syntagma – rights of men and women, no matter where they are, means to promote and promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, regardless of race, gender, language, etc. You're actually doing exactly what's opposite of what you bring in politics exclusively to women, instead of looking at them as being equal to yourself, as women in other professions, instead of proving themselves to be professional, you're only bringing in the female sex, and in that way you're actually doing their discrimination. It was similar with that case when you asked Nenad Popovic to apologize. I'll do it again. You also tried to avoid the essence, to apologize for saying that it was unacceptable for him to have two mothers in the elementary school textbook, that someone had two fathers. It's not just unacceptable, it's abnormal and unnatural. I don't know, ma'am, if you're a mother, but I'm sure you have no right to redefine the concept of mother. The concept of a mother means a woman who gave birth to a child. There is no child who has given birth to two mothers, as there is no child made by two fathers. She's always one mother and she's always one father. And what you are doing, asking for an apology for such a thing, is actually discrimination, discrimination of the majority attitude in Serbia and discrimination, which is even more important, the Constitution and the law of Serbia. In accordance with what law of the Republic of Serbia can one child have two mothers or two fathers? It doesn't exist. It is a similar example and related to this criticism that you have brought to the position of SPC and its patriarch. We can think of him well or more, but if you're starting out of equality, then besides being a patriarch or some bishop, they're both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and they have certain civil rights and freedom of speech and freedom of thought and have the right to stand up for whatever they want. Neither is it contrary to the law, so that you may react, nor have they sought any violent action, nor have they exercised it violently. So there was absolutely no reason for you to act as the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in these cases. It's freedom of mind. Whether you or anyone else like it, it's a completely irrelevant question. The point is completely different. The third thing, you say, ma'am, is how you reacted through public statements and through press statements. You, among other things, made a statement in the middle of last year regarding me personally. On my case, I felt your unprofessionalness and misunderstanding of the essence of the job. You've commented on the writings of the yellow press and the lies that were made in that yellow press, without any knowledge, without any facts. You've made some sort of assessment of something you don't know anything about. It's pure unprofessionalism, it's a disgrace to the profession you're trying to do. By doing so, you have done great harm to the institution you represent, and I demand from you a public apology for the falsehood you have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61247	Thank you. The word is from a fellow MP, Ruzica Nikolic. MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Commissioner Jankovic, methodologically observed, this report of yours is fine, it's in line with the methodology. However, when its contents are read, it can be seen that it is around the pituitary and the inward hunger. I turned this around a little bit. You said here what you did in 2018. And that we are not wasting time on the elaborates that you have done, that is about 0.2% and 0.02% respectively, compared to the total number of people in Serbia - 947 complaints, 300 recommendations, four proposals to the Constitutional Court. And you could also apply to the Constitutional Court for the harmonisation of the Constitution with the Law on Gender Equality, since you quoted some of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality there. I wouldn't be surprised if you'd done something like that. Three criminal charges, one lawsuit, one motion to initiate a misdemeanor procedure, some mediation, you complain about public figures, the media, and then you made a classification there on the complaints, when it comes to the faces and the classification of complaints when it comes to areas. Since we, the Serbian radicals, analyze this in detail, we, of course, had to see also the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, to link this report. Article 1 of this law says what the Trustee is. The trustee, therefore, is an independent state body, independent of his work. But there is one thing that is observed in Serbia -- which is more independent, independent, NGOs and other factors in Serbia, increasingly fewer Serbian citizens exercise their rights. I don't think that's good, and that's how you should act. Then, article 28 of this law says what the Trustee should, which conditions should meet - that he has citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, a graduate lawyer, 10 years of work experience in the field of protection of minority rights, etc. You're probably doing all this, but there's one moment, and that's a moral factor. Given what you've been doing, what you've been judging and not judging, I have to realize that you're not the most moral person to do this job. Note that we Serbian radicals respect all those who advocate protecting the weaker, older, one with less rights, and that is something where every normal person should support, and the contrary to condemning, but through your activities, along with the NGO sector, you are only trying in a populist way to talk more about it and more time to spend, and in fact I would not say that you have done enough. I'll give you an example that can't leave anyone indifferent. A young man had a car accident, somewhere with his 23 years of life, and then he decided to start playing sports. He's weakly mobile, or he's in a wheelchair. He came to our country being represented at the Paralympic Games. His arrival at a primary school in Ljubljana was provided by Professor Aleksandar Renovcevic. Imagine, the children did not show only in the field of sports and the results, which affected them in a motivational way. They said, many of us, children, elementary school students -- many of us can't make such significant sports results, but we can make a good result in learning and knowledge, and that really had one positive effect. You should have been more involved in the team, not condemning something that no normal would condemn, and skip, leave out what would really be a conviction. We're talking too much here, and I'm not really sure that that's the way we do, and by sending such decisions to the public, or messages, we may not lead to a threat to women's rights. Here, we have two members of the Serbian Radical Party, Mrs Verica Radeta, who is vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Mrs Smiljana Varga Glamocanin, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. If one of them were to say they're only in that place because they're women, I think they'd be very offended. They're not here because they're women, they're here because they deserve to carry such functions, so responsible functions, and we have to affirm these positive examples more than some of the other rights and fights that you're talking about, which is essentially not happening. Have you, since you are obliged to take care of human, minority and all other rights, ever wondered what conditions in the maintenance of the prison have Milorad Ulemek Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic, as well as many other prisoners? Are their human rights being violated there? Did you deal with these problems or didn't you? I doubt it, you probably didn't. The help law for families is probably welcome, but there is a large number, you have indicated in your report, a family, a large number of women who did not exercise those rights. Is that where you intervened? Your authority should draw from the power of public appearances, although you enjoy immunity as MPs, you have a salary as judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. That's quite enough. Immunity as a People's MP, and the salary as a Supreme Cassation Court judge, but your tools, this is not your only problem now, which you can act in public to send a message has no serious power, which is the modernization that has affected Serbian society, respect for EU countries, to other Western countries. Recommendation and opinion. You said there that you passed two demands on to a certain two ministries. The report doesn't say if they answered. I think you're unhappy because they didn't respond to those remarks you made. As soon as something has the strength of recommendation or opinion, it does not have enough opportunity to be realized and that someone accepts it seriously and as a commitment to himself. I look forward to the fact that, I suppose, all the other colleagues where you said it, and it's simply not your fault, it's such a condition, that the number has been reduced, or that it immediately intervenes when it comes to the violation of the right person with disabilities. It suggests to me that Serbian citizens are good people, that they are ending their obligations, the problems are being resolved very quickly. Given that we are essentially like this, then you would have to do your job exclusively in accordance with the law, not supporting NGOs and acting the way they want to. You know that a number of NGOs representatives were not only dissatisfied with your choice in that position, but simply until 2016 he had serious objections to your work, until you began to perform publicly as they wanted. I repeat once again, the more NGOs and the more non-governmental sectors the blade of the state's organs is beating. Here are the courts for all that arises as a problem, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, that is, it is now within the Ministry of Local Self-Government and other state bodies should solve these problems, not you. You can find a good example and work on it. Organize family workshops, organize something that is a good example, not whether an MP will be called a letter or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61249	Thank you. Ljiljana Malušić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61250	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Jankovic, with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a regular annual report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018. This is the first time in parliament to consider the report of an independent state body, and not only of yours, but also of Frankfurt, and was also the Commissioner for the Protection of Information From Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data, which only speaks of a great degree of democracy which currently exists in Serbia, about openness, about the charisma of our president who simply allows something that was never a practice, which, in my view, is completely normal and should be commended for that. I've read your report, and I'm going to focus on one of the divisions, it's gender-based discrimination. I hear they're getting it. Of course, this is the first time something like this has happened, and I'm proud to be able to talk about this today. Confirmation of what I said, there are more than 90 MPs in parliament today. We started with 30% of women. Someone said, "quote." Well, it's not a quota, it's smart, capable, educated women who came to show what they know. I was defeated by the fact that in 150 local self-government, only 7.6% are at the head of a woman, president of a woman. That's not good. I think that percentage should increase, and what you're saying here is a little bit devastating for all the people who live in this Republic, especially for men. Since this is one patriarchal environment, every fifth woman here according to the report is physically or sexually harassed. That's terrible. No comment. I simply appeal to these men. Well said my esteemed colleague, Mr. Rancic, that seems to be a desire for power. It's embarrassing. This is the 21st century. Do these men have daughters? Do they have mothers? Do they have women? It is also devastating that the abused women, the majority percentage, means the highest percentage, after 65 years and over 65 years, have women who have been abused. Nonsens. Inadmissible. Well, they're our mothers, they're our grandmothers. They raised us. All I need to do is show myself what kind of monster his mother's abuse is abuse her grandmother. Something like that can't happen in Serbia. I am pleased that all the regulations offered to the Republic of Serbia have been adopted. First of all, the Istanbul Convention. Bravo. Well, then, Resolution 1325 – Women, peace and security. So, recommendations. It's the only way we can get out of this grey. I just don't know what this data is saying that every fifth woman has been abused physically. Of course, there's also mental abuse and every fifth woman raped. My people, let's take a breath, let's do something about ourselves. This is terrible. This is inadmissible. I'm only interested in -- what is this data, and is it possible that every fifth woman has been abused physically? Something like that must never happen again. I hope that society with great education, because women don't know what their rights are... Since I live in the Vozdovac municipality, we did our best to educate women, to know what their rights are. That's why I'm undermining that it's necessary to establish a protocol on co-operation in the bar. This means that from the network of the MUP, the municipalities, the center for social work, the home of health and the judiciary. Without it, I don't think the situation in Serbia will be great. I saw 30 women killed in 2018. It's not good, and I'm sure next year, if we have a lot of education, if we talk to people who are simply the hostage of this society, because they can't understand that someone is raping someone or hurting a child, a mother, a grandmother, that we're going to have a lot of education with these people, who are somewhere on the side of the side, it's just not good for them, said my dear colleague, a desire for power, I'd say there's a lot of deviations, and I hope we can deal with it. What's still very important to point out is that this country has survived everything and everything since the wars of the 1990s, then recession. It's part of an excuse, but I still have no excuse for these rapists. A point with them. We've passed a lot of laws, and I think they should be even more rigorous. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61251	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61252	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one part of the Annual Report of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality for 2018 deals with the problem of discrimination based on age and what I must certainly point out is that this form of discrimination is common in our society. The demographic image of the world as well as ours is changing. So the majority population is made up of older people. This is also the situation in Serbia where our population belongs among the oldest populations with a forecast for further intense ageing. This is caused by different factors, such as low birth rate, fertility and higher youth outflows from Serbia, which, due to unemployment or inability to find work in the profession after completed studies or because they are underpaid for the job in the profession, leave the country. The status of older people in Serbia is unfavourable and elderly people face a number of problems daily both economic, social and health care problems and when it comes to age-based discrimination, it can be concluded that in Serbia, this type of discrimination is one of the more common and that older people are exposed both in the family and in all segments of life. This discrimination can be monitored through different domains, both in the domain of work, professional training, providing health services, services in the field of social protection. We have seen from just a report that several organisations in Serbia have dealt with this problem in society, and we can see that the number of complaints addressed to the Trustee in 2018 has increased compared to previous years and it has been stated that there are 166 complaints about discrimination on the basis of age. It is something that is certainly not good and can be said freely that it is also alarming if it is taken into account that there is certainly a much greater number of older people exposed to discrimination which, because of fear or dependence on younger family members, often because of the inadmissibility and inability to abuse and discrimination do not report it. This kind of discrimination is something that we must point out, poses a potential risk of abuse, and it certainly affects both the physical and mental health of older people. We also see that the Commissioner has given an opinion on a set of regulations in the field of health and social protection, and we would take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Commissioner a few questions on this particular subject. When it comes to respect for the human rights of the elderly, it depends largely on whether it is services in local communities or on the use of services in state-owned housing institutions of old or private institutions. Specific questions concern the accommodation facility, so-called Old people's homes. In addition to state housing facilities for old people, in which conditions are completely different, who are decent and worthy of men compared to those more private ones, because due to insufficient capacity of state homes, private homes are increasingly opening up for old people. Since there are certain conditions and parameters for the opening of such homes, they are respected at the beginning, or until the license is obtained, but later that picture is drastically changed. I'm not saying that in all private homes it's a bad situation, but we're witnessing that it's a common phenomenon. For example, mainly in rural parts of the city, away from the eyes of the public in homes for the old, instead of the precise number of users, old faces are placed in the home through the capacity of the institution, so for example, Instead of 30 users for which licenses have been granted, 40 users and more users have been set up. What's going on in that case? Old people who stay there are not given adequate medical care, they do not have the conditions for life they should have and often there is neglect of users, i.e. patients by healthcare professionals who are employed here, who or cannot, and often will not devote themselves to this user. Since it is most of the people who are demented older, who are unable to tell their family what is happening to them in particular in those institutions, this issue remains unclear, not much is said about it. So you'd ask the trustee how much he's working with the welfare centres, with all those inspections that are in charge of visiting these institutions? Also, how many complaints were there about neglect, discrimination and freedom to say, often abuse of old faces in these institutions? How many recommendations and opinions have you made in specific cases of age-based discrimination, and what measures have you stated by law? Then, as one of the problems arises also when it comes to single older people who need help at home. This service is often inaccessible in smaller local environments precisely because of a small number of geronto housewives. It's a big problem and it's something you should also react to. Then, when staying in an institution for the elderly, there is a great possibility of abuse when it comes to persons suffering from dementia or other mental illnesses. We're all witnesses to a story the granddaughter of a person who was to be placed in one of these facilities. Namely, a demented old person has been asked to sign a life support contract with this institution, so that after her death, that the property would remain at home itself. Since you were, as the DS manager of one geronto center by 2012, you are certainly directed to this problem in the surprise that you have not paid more attention to this problem, because you certainly know for yourself about many cases of abuse. However, when it comes to the particular case of this old woman, the demente, whose home manager wanted to take away the property, your reaction was missing. As she was left behind when some traitors and foreign mercenaries called Dr. Vojislav Seselj a war criminal. Instead of reacting, you've remained silent on these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61253	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61254	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have listed some key problems in achieving equality and protecting against discrimination in this report by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. The data is research by the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We see that one of the research was done with media representatives, as a category that can directly affect the representation of this topic through its reporting. What this report discourages is the number of complaints about discrimination based on disability. Although there is great progress in ensuring conditions for the smooth functioning of people with disabilities, it is clear that there is still a lot to be done in the area. One part of the report says that it is necessary to create such a cultural pattern and social discourse in which discrimination is condemned, while equality respects and supports. I think our society has such a pattern and it is on that discourse, it's just a question to what extent. Realistically, it's nowhere in the world and it's probably never going to be 100%, because the negative phenomena in society will always be, but the fact is that we have to try to protect the endangered categories as much as possible. What we also have to take care of, is that there is no abuse and that the perception of equality is not distorted, because I am absolutely sure that we all know that equality does not mean being above someone, but in the same plane with someone. I'll be back for that part about respect. The general impression is that today there is a lack of respect, whether it refers to respect for people, respect for rights or respect for freedom, and we often have to remind one another, and we rarely require respect. However, we rarely deny it to someone else. It's a starting point for solving this kind of problem, learning about the basic display of respect and reducing prejudice, and that's a job for each individual. We have legislative and institutional frameworks and in the field of human rights protection, we also have a strategy for prevention and protection against discrimination, we have independent bodies, we have offices dealing with this problem, but it always brings us back to what may be most difficult, and that's a change of angle of view and attitude. Changes in life, changes in society are the result of changes in attitudes in behavior. We are on a good path when it comes to improving human rights for people who belong to sensitive social groups. When we talk about national minorities, amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities were adopted during 2018. The most numerous national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, as is known, are Hungarians who make up 3.5%, then Roma who make up 2.1% and Bosniaks who make up 2%. All other ethnic groups have individual stakes below 1%. In Bor, the Roma national minority takes 3.61% of the total population. We are doing a lot of work on their integration in society, given the presence of problems and inadequate living conditions in informal Roma settlements, the city of Bor has implemented an EU-funded project in co-operation with the Ministry of Construction and the Office for Human and Minority Rights, which means improving the living conditions of Roma families. The completed technical documentation, i.e. the project of the building, was also done with a resettlement plan and 60 families that are mostly social cases will be moved into new apartments. 65 You have well explained in this report that the direct consequences of poverty and conditions in which Roma live are the frequent occurrences of contracted children's marriages, a major challenge for the integration of young Roma nationalities, which are particularly at risk of social exclusion. There is also a lack of education, which implies employment problems, and there is no need to forget about domestic violence, which is also one of the consequences of traditional underage marriages. In principle, it is a causal link and it is quite difficult to fight with, yet this project provides them with the possibility of socialization, and it is up to them to use this possibility to integrate into society, of course, with respect for the majority people and other national minorities, because it is of interest to all of us to live in a better and better quality society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61255	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61256	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Commissioners with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, is ahead of us with a report for 2018 of the Trustee, which is being discussed here at the National Assembly, unlike in those previous years when this report was discussed on the Assembly committees. This, of course, contributes to the transparency and greater information of citizens about all those activities that the Trustee met in her work in 2018. First of all, I have to say, as far as the report itself is concerned, that it is absolutely done in accordance with the methodology of making a single report, that it is comprehensive, that it taxively lists all the difficulties that the citizens have faced, that you give an opinion, that you make recommendations, that you initiate procedures and what I particularly want to stress, and that what your report shows is that the recommendations you gave to institutions and others, and that it concerns protecting persons with disabilities, or providing support in the exercise of their rights, that they all respected in the 100% amount. So this shows that we as a society are sensitive, that we are as a society of human beings, but of course it also shows that we have knowledge and recognize when there is some discrimination and in the conduct of the public authorities. Also, I must point out that you have done many trainings that are currently concerned by the public authorities, that in an adequate way and at the right time they recognize every act that can bring one person or more persons into a situation that can be discriminated against. Of course, I want to look back at one group that you've presented here, and these are questions about old people. Today is October 1st, International Day of the Old. Here at the House of the National Assembly, under the auspices of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic, and together with you, a meeting was held in a small hall concerning intergenerational solidarity. The meeting was really impressive. The children attended, the old attended, representatives of the competent ministries attended, and truly intergenerational co-operation and convergence and showing empathy to the elderly, indeed perhaps one of the main tasks of our society and what we should do. The number of complaints filed concerning the old faces is certainly not directly implemented, and they are a small number, certainly not directly implemented by the state of the old at all in our society. However, I must point out that since 2014, the government has also made these shifts precisely in the protection of old people. First of all, I want to point out, when it comes to old people without family ageing and without their own incomes, it is possible to house them in private homes. Of course, accommodation costs are borne by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, all in order to reduce waiting lists and to provide such accommodation to old people, who need such services, timely and timely. Of course, I want to point out that the government has done a lot when it comes to the health care of the elderly. The waiting lists have been reduced when it comes to the diagnostic process itself. It used to take years, today it lasts from 30 to 60 days. Also, an electronic recipe has been introduced, so old people don't have to go to doctors all the time to prescribe their therapy and the government has also done a lot, except to build road infrastructure on highways, they've done a lot of local self-government to build road infrastructure from the city to the village, which shortens travel for old people to health institutions and, of course, all those institutions they need. Of course, I would like to point out that the Government for the Development of Social Protection Services has also defined by budget a dedicated transfer for the development of social protection services, including a category of old and above all, I would like to emphasise the service in the home of old people, so that the old people will remain in their natural environment through adequate support. They are an old category of our young people to learn from, and today it is in the House of the National Assembly in an impressive way and depicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61257	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, buddy. I thank you. The Honored Chairman, distinguished Commissioners, respected MPs, the Commissioner's institution has been acting preventively in the field of protection against discrimination. The report noted the problems citizens face, also pointing to risks that can turn into problems, but also points to procedures to remove irregularities. It is of great importance that certain rules for protection against discrimination and improvement of equality in certain areas have been adopted in 2018. That's how some provisions were implemented, the credentials' recommendations. Also, the recommendations implemented gave positive results and started to work. Our legislation in this area is in line with European and international standards. This represents one basis, a legal framework for further development of anti-discrimination legislation with the possibility of further promotion. All in order to improve equality and combat discrimination. It is also a matter of improving the rules that will act in order to achieve equality. That is why we have the involvement of relevant actors and bodies in certain areas, who are familiar with the problem and who contribute to the resolution of such irregularities and the regulation process. So practice is changed for the better, and this is also about the adoption of certain laws and sublegal acts. In this context, the Strategy for Incentives of Birth, Public Health Strategy, Strategy for Safety and Health at Work in the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which regulates free legal assistance for citizens as its users, has been adopted during the reporting period. Society continues to face a number of challenges in the plan to improve gender equality. The disability as a basis of discrimination is present. According to the recommendations for the removal of the provisions of the Law on the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of disability, as a personal property, it has been acted in all cases. As for the number of gender complaints. The women filed a number of complaints. The reason is that on their return from maternity leave they were given places of lower rank or inability to advance, as well as family violence. The commissioner made recommendations to the courts, and most state authorities acted on recommendations. An example of good practice is that according to the recommendations of the Commissioner, citizens' problems in 98% of cases were solved by public authorities and this is very important. In the past, the state has done much to improve the legislative institutional framework for achieving gender equality and protection of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61258	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, distinguished Commissioners, respected MPs, the Commissioner's institution has been acting preventively in the field of protection against discrimination. The report noted the problems citizens face, also pointing to risks that can turn into problems, but also points to procedures to remove irregularities. It is of great importance that certain rules for protection against discrimination and improvement of equality in certain areas have been adopted in 2018. That's how some provisions were implemented, the credentials' recommendations. Also, the recommendations implemented gave positive results and started to work. Our legislation in this area is in line with European and international standards. This represents one basis, a legal framework for further development of anti-discrimination legislation with the possibility of further promotion. All in order to improve equality and combat discrimination. It is also a matter of improving the rules that will act in order to achieve equality. That is why we have the involvement of relevant actors and bodies in certain areas, who are familiar with the problem and who contribute to the resolution of such irregularities and the regulation process. So practice is changed for the better, and this is also about the adoption of certain laws and sublegal acts. In this context, the Strategy for Incentives of Birth, Public Health Strategy, Strategy for Safety and Health at Work in the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which regulates free legal assistance for citizens as its users, has been adopted during the reporting period. Society continues to face a number of challenges in the plan to improve gender equality. The disability as a basis of discrimination is present. According to the recommendations for the removal of the provisions of the Law on the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of disability, as a personal property, it has been acted in all cases. As for the number of gender complaints. The women filed a number of complaints. The reason is that on their return from maternity leave they were given places of lower rank or inability to advance, as well as family violence. The commissioner made recommendations to the courts, and most state authorities acted on recommendations. An example of good practice is that according to the recommendations of the Commissioner, citizens' problems in 98% of cases were solved by public authorities and this is very important. In the past, the state has done much to improve the legislative institutional framework for achieving gender equality and protection of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61259	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before the conclusion of a single search – whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61260	Thank you, Your Honor. It is now time to answer the questions of MPs and MPs. Let me sum up which were the same or referred to the same area and, of course, individually for what were specific questions. National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, I remained in debt in the first part, sorry, was not the intention. I just dropped the question of whether it was discrimination what is happening with the Serb list in Kosovo. Yes, it is an inadmissible violation of the human rights of Serbs in Kosovo and it is an uneven treatment of a political list, but I can only give it as a finding. National MP Predrag Jelenkovic had several questions concerning the matter, I don't see if the MP is there, but I will answer. From the region of southern and eastern Serbia in 2018, complaints were most lodged by natural persons and were the most relevant to the field of labour and employment and procedures before public authorities. So, the region of southern and eastern Serbia fully reflects the same situation on the number of complaints and areas, as you had the opportunity to see in the report. The issue of the same MP relating to the area of education and vocational training, in which 50 complaints have been filed, mainly relates to the area of education, and to different actions, i.e. missing preschools or primary schools, while the smallest relate to the area of higher education. National MP Jelenkovic asked what the reference number 16 meant. It refers to the need to establish social and health institutions, as well as to develop cross-sectoral services, given that the Social Protection Act provides for exactly these services. He asked for an clarification of our recommendation number 19 — which are activities that need to be continued in raising awareness of the obligation to report violence, especially in the health care system. So, first of all, we were thinking about educating health workers and increasing their capacity to identify and react to violence and their co-operation with other systems such as police, social protection and so on. As for working on a certain promotion of the importance of eliminating hate speech, he asked if we had allocated special funds. No, I don't. You heard we couldn't. The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality is part of the state and social order of the Republic of Serbia and, as all austerity measures apply to other bodies, this is also true for the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, so we did not provide for special funds in the budget. I would like to thank the MPs Mrs. Ivkovic and Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic for his commendation, indeed to conclude that the report is exhausted, that I am not repeating it now, there were no concrete questions, but that you have actually stated how important it is that we have a comprehensive review of the situation. As for Mr. Miladin Sevarlic's question as to whether a man's parliamentary network should be established, I don't know, really, my full support for the establishment of a woman's parliamentary network, because there is no dilemma. Here, today we're only on the number of 90 people's e-mails. Ms Malusic, whose presentation I fully agree with, points out that MPs have significantly changed this public discourse, made a serious contribution that today had a different picture in society. I think we have much more solidarity in all fields, and especially in this woman, we're not going to miss it at all. And whether or not the MPs here decide to form a network, it is not prohibited and there will be no kind of discrimination. As for the situation of Serbs in Kosovo, of course it is not possible for the Commissioner to resolve these issues himself. I fully agree with you that this is a serious violation of the law. You know very well that this is a special position, a question that has been going on for decades and that we certainly can't solve this issue ourselves. We give full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and welcome all efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, which have specifically focused on improving the situation and addressing numerous problems of the Serbs in Kosovo. As for questions relating to what the Serbian translation of the LGBT community looks like, therefore, it has not been invented by the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, it has been used since the end of the 20th century and it has been used by lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders. Asked why only Serbian chiefs could be cast out the mockery and poster you provided me with the bishop of the Montenegrin-Horse Amphilochy Radovic, we did not have a complaint. Otherwise, it is an absolutely inadmissible picture that certainly sends a completely wrong picture of our society, and it is unacceptable to treat the bishop. Otherwise, there was also information in the public that Amfilohija Radovic's bishop had filed a criminal complaint, and the case was brought before the court. According to Article 36(2), The law prohibiting discrimination, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality cannot act. I would like to thank the MP, Mr Rancic, for taking a special look at violence and pointing to all aspects, especially from the aspects of the profession he has been working on for many years, and another congratulations that Gajin Han won first place last year for the municipality of equal opportunities. As for the issue of Ms. Danica Bukvic's folk letter on gender equality in local self-government, therefore, it was more of a finding, but we are fully agreed that this issue should be paid particular attention. In particular, it was a finding, which was also a partial question of it, but also of previous MPs, regarding discrimination on the basis of the health situation, which was actually the issue. The complaints were applied and were followed by our complaints about the availability of medicines. I must publicly commend this time the Republic Health Insurance Fund that has acted on all our recommendations, which in many cases has not been easy, so many of our citizens have been given better treatment and treatment for the newest generation. I stayed in debt, but now more of Tatjana Macura's folk letter is not there, but she asked if we did anything for multiple sclerosis patients. This year, we had a meeting with the associations of the sick, and they told us that soon they would send something that would be more like an initiative than an appeal, because in this way many, for example, those suffering from osteoporosis, melanoma, we made it possible thanks to such good co-operation, along with the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health, better treatment and solved the problems of kidney patients by opening a special dialysis ward in Vranjska Banja. As for the issue of MP Dragana Kostic, who was referring to the birth budgeting that we did not pay attention. No, we can only do so at the request of the National Assembly, and we can make ourselves a special report on gender-based discrimination or, say, the position of women. Otherwise, we quoted the UN Smoke Report, the UN Agency for Gender Equality, so it's from their report, but we haven't even done a full analysis of all local self-government, so we couldn't contain it, because it's simply not possible. We've done an analysis of the number of women in all public authorities at local level, but simply, you can't do all these jobs that we ourselves would like to finish. Therefore, as I have told you, we are giving relevant research all in our report that you have, to be helpful in your work, because they are not complaints as I have highlighted the only indication of the presence of discrimination. As for the finding, if we had not responded to an insult at the expense of the President of Parliament, here you can see on our site, December 4, 2018, it may have been accidentally released. You know how, let our warnings and statements come across a much bigger echo in public, let not, but therefore you can find everyone on our site where, here, it says, only the first paragraph not to read the whole statement: "The Commissioner for the Protection of Equality condemns the insults which, at the expense of the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, brought forth by actor Sergey Trifunović through social networks... “ and I don’t really read you any further. I thank Parliamentarian Stefana Miladanovic for her commendation of this report, and I support that finding, in fact, in some way criticising the joint of all of us here that we do not discuss these life issues much more and again, I say, the door is fully open to improve that communication. It's a good idea to discuss certain individual cases much earlier and perhaps in some formats we analyze some cases so that we can solve some problems together. I just want to say thank you, too, to MP Milija Miletic and once again congratulated the municipality of Svrlig, water and women and are in key positions for being one of the criteria when the municipality of Srljig won third place in our competition in the municipality of the city of equal opportunities. Of course, not the only ones, because they're not just here because they're women, they've made a significant contribution. I find it true that we agree with you about the position of children in the country and the position of women in the country. You've seen that much of our report just contains recommendations for their improvement. We have given an initiative to supplement the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act to identify incentives for young women and other sensitive groups of people in rural areas. You have on page 130, so you don't hold back and read the whole explanation. So we fully support everything that you have stated in your presentation, and we agree that we are all obliged to pay much more attention to our villages. Thank the MPs, Jeleni Vujić Obradović, for emphasising how he sees the report as very important to all citizens and citizens, and thank everyone who sees it as something that is important to all of us. I thank Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, the MP of the people for their criticism. I fully agree with the position of stereotypes and prejudice, there is no equality, certainly. As for the finding of breach of Article 21, we need to look at it a little bit better and see that there are no violations on our part, but on the contrary, that we are working in accordance with Article 21. It is true that what everyone thinks about Serbia is very important to me, and of course, what the international community thinks. It is absolutely true that I care and that I am trying to represent Serbia in the best possible way. As for the finding of the use of the native sensual language and the endangerment of the right to abortion, if we were not to return, I had already answered in the secular state, so that I would not return because I had already answered that question. As for your findings on my response to the daily list "Kurr" you are absolutely right. I apologize for mistranslated only half of my statement, so you have every right to be told that they shortened the first part of my statement. I have proof that I have just sent the answer that I am saying for "Kurror" that we do not have relevant information about this event, so that every commenting on Mr. Sarovic's case would be irresponsible and irresponsible, and that as a trustee, we constantly point out that in each individual case, regardless of whether it is a public figure that must lead to the interests and rights of the child. In situations like this when it comes to child safety, there should be enough awareness in marriage partners to put their differences aside, that the interests of the child above all else, on the contrary, we just made a full finding. I'm sorry that it was presented that anyone convicted your case, on the contrary, I have proof that I didn't give that answer, but I apologize for the impression that I was commenting on something I didn't have information on, that's exactly the answer I gave. Unfortunately, it has been shortened and only a second sentence has been given, which is so conveyed, has been drawn absolutely out of context. As for the finding of MP Sreta Perić, who finds the methodology to be good, that he has an objection to why it is mentioned in the initiative for the assessment of constitutionality of the Law on Gender Equality. There is no mention of the Gender Equality Act in force as just one addition to the Law Constitutional Assessment initiative to support the family with children, which is exactly the opposite of what is somewhere. Of course, everyone has the right to think, and I respect every kind of criticism very much, and that is that we are not dealing with the weakest enough. On the contrary, the entire report is just dedicated to our most sensitive social groups. When it comes to the position of citizens at the service of prison sentences, it is the responsibility for the protection of citizens who represent a national mechanism for the prevention of torture. As for the need for the existence of organs and weaknesses of our recommendations, 98% of the public authorities' behaviour on them speaks. As for the answer to the question of MP Ljiljana Malusic, thank you for your commendation of the Report. I fully agree with you on the position of women. You asked whose research we announced. A large-scale OSCE survey of the OSCE's emissions of violence and sexual harassment. That's right, very defeatingly, it seems that women are not yet encouraged to talk about it. Who knows what we're gonna come across one day, which is whose fault it is. It's true that I represent the report for the first time. I know your criticism wasn't addressed to me. We regularly delivered every year, so that someone didn't think we were discussing it for the first time because we didn't deliver. It's true, the previous trustee did represent, I'm the first time, and that's why I'm very looking forward to it, especially today on International Day of the Old. The reply to the MP Ruzica Nikolic, who applies, and I apologize for going out for a moment, I really had to, I didn't want to show any respect for any MP. We co-operate a lot with social work centres, precisely because the most frequent complaints arrive for procedures before public authorities, often with centres that are ready to comply with most of our recommendations, because somewhere they themselves are aware that it is difficult to rise above their own prejudices in very sensitive procedures that are being conducted in front of the centres. As for the finding that I haven't dealt with the elderly enough and the position of the older institutions of social protection, I have to admit that it's absolutely incorrect, because as you can see since the 2015 elections in this place, there's not one year where there's not been at least one study on the elderly. As for your specific question about the abuse of older and numerous types of fraud, including forced accommodation and signing of life support and abuse contracts, you will have the opportunity to see in your work report for 2019 when we present next year, because this year we have made a recommendation to all social work centres and all social protection institutions precisely about the prejudices they have when they put the elderly into a home, because they do not feel that they are able to decide on their lives because of their age. So, that's something that's totally inadmissible and I'm totally in agreement with your exposure, and otherwise I was, so, for 12 years I've spent in a social security system, I haven't been in a position of any political party, not one member, which I don't think is a bad thing in life, I don't know if I'm ever going to be, but I've just never been before. As for the issues and more findings of the National Parliament of Studenka Kovacevic, thank you for one comprehensive explanation of all that is done in our society, especially in that most difficult work, which is the change of social and cultural context. Thank you for being fully aware of this, as a folk MP, and for having partners in you in this very change. As for the finding that you are discouraged by the number of complaints, there is really no reason, not one, because it personally encourages me. I have a completely different approach to it and my colleagues and colleagues because, I said it one more time, but to conclude, the number of complaints can increase dramatically, that does not mean that discrimination has increased. Well, here, do you see the number of reported violence we have? If we talk about it and solve problems, the number will increase, sometimes it will all depend on the current social context. Also, I would like to thank Parliamentarian Milanki Jevtović Vukojičić, who is really using every opportunity, not only today in the tide when we are reviewing the reports, but to realize that he is very important in the work and that he is exhausted and detailed and provides insight to you, as MPs and MPs, in the highest place in our country, that they are realistically looking at the state and helping in the control of the executive government. Also, in the end, thank the MP Milan Ljubic for all these praises and findings. Thank you all once again for your attention. I hope I've answered the questions of all the MPs. If I accidentally dropped something, it was not my intention to disrespect anyone, because in the work of institutions whose head I am is extremely important and the most important opinion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61261	Thank you. My colleague Radeta, on what grounds? (Miss Radeta: Replica. You do not have the right to reply, especially in this part of the session. She didn't mention you once. Comrade Chevarlich, what's your base? Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. You don't have a right to a replica, either. On the basis of Article 98(4), I'm closing my rules of procedure for a unique search. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Arsic, you have injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when you did not react earlier as Mrs Branko Jankovic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, spoke to the MP's fellow MP, in charge of the vote in Kosovo and Metohija on 6 October. The team mentioned the southern Serbian province five times, and each time the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia said "Kosovo", "Kosovo", "Kosovo". Mrs. Branko Jankovic, the October 6th elections are held in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The "Serbian List" is voted in Kosovo and Metohija. So you can't, you can't speak in public. We have criticised you today that you do not react when someone else violates the Constitution, and you five times as if you were to consult the National Assembly, as if you were telling the MPs, but well, that is your face and your relationship with the National Assembly as much as you are trying to introduce yourself so nicely, and above all towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So remember never forget, Kosovo and Metohija are AP and an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61263	Radeta, a colleague of Brankica, was in no way wrong, because if she submitted a report on Kosovo and Metohija and discussed it, she considers it an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. (Faith Radeta: She did not make a mistake, but you did not react when she said it.) ) So, I'm just asking you if you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, no, no, Thank you. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to amend the Commission's decision to elect members to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the impact on the environment with special reference to the consequences left by the use of a project with impoverished uranium. Before opening a single search, I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the Proposal for a decision to amend the Commission's decision to elect members to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the impact on the environment with a special reference to the consequences left by the use of the projectile with the impoverished uranium, which was submitted by the MP, Professor Darko Laketic. Does the promoter, MP, Darko Laketić, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61264	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, namely the Commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing, we all elected together here last year on the proposal of the National Assembly President, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. This way we undoubtedly went out to meet the people and began in a serious way to talk seriously about a subject that is very important. Unlike the previous period when it was not talked about at all, and it seemed even less, I will remind you that this authority is the very authority that for the first time began to mark the death of our people in NATO aggression. In addition to the loss of our people in NATO aggression and that kind of marking, for the first time this government began to talk about the responsibility of those who committed aggression, but also of the consequences, of all those consequences that caused and the use of ammunition with poor uranium, but even more importantly, which caused all those toxins, toxins, carcinogens, which were released in the shooting of industrial plants that were at environmental risk and all those, to say, plants, whose destruction led to ecological devastation. What is also very important is that the Commission has been tasked with establishing the truth about all of this, and this particular Commission has been doing so since its founding. I would remind you that the Members of the Commission are Members of the Members of Parliament who have been elected by the citizens and who are tasked with working together and to come to the results of this work and research which all together would consider and reach certain steps and conclusions. In addition to members of the Commission who are MPs, we have included, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the work of the Commission and all relevant professional and scientific institutions in our country. In addition, we have included all relevant scientists dealing with appropriate problems depending on the needs and direction of the Commission's research. What is our common goal is to sublime and sum up all of our results that we have come and present them during the next year, therefore, before the end of this term. I will also remind you of what activities the Commission has had. We've held seven sessions so far. Each session is carefully prepared, each session is, it shows and gathers a lot of important information and evidence and what is very important is that, first of all, this work is very important and that our work has already produced certain results. The first session of the Commission was held on 15 June 2018. It was a constitutive session where we set out the methodology of work. At the second session of the Commission, held on 5 and 6 July 2018 as the first witness, Mr. Djan Piero Skano, President of the Commission of the Italian Parliament and adviser to the Commission, Mr. General Amodio Albino, appeared. What is important is that during this testimony, that first testimony, we had and gathered a number of evidence and information, a number of significant statements, such as the testimony and testimony of Mr. George Trenta, Mr. Annie Letieri. I'd like to remind George Trent that he's the president of the National Cancer Organisation of Italy. Enio Letieri was a military figure, a health worker, head of the Italian KFOR health sector, and what is even more important is information about certain mechanisms that have led to the disease of Italian soldiers in Kosovo and Metohija. In parallel to the evidence we received from Mr. Djan Pierre Skanu, we also received a large court material. The court material concerns the judgments of Italian courts, with Italian soldiers who were part of Italian KFOR suing and receiving certain disputes and the material is stored in our archives. In fact, Italian courts have established the principle of qualified probability. What does that mean? This means that a soldier who had malignancies, who served in Metohija territory, Kosovo, is not artificial in the principle of getting sick, but according to this automation, only the degree of physical damage and the degree of illness and the determined compensation are determined. It is a great success of the Italian Commission. Based on the Italian Commission's report, this just happened, I'd say, precedent. What's very important, regarding this testimony, is that we've collected a lot of evidence from Italians, got their full report that we've translated, got all the testimony, got court records, a lot of things that were necessary for our start and for our work. But then we heard a lot of ominous comments, that this commission of the Italian Parliament is political, that Italians have no problem. I'll tell you and deny such claims. I, by the way, participated in a conference in Rome on 5 April 2019. The conference was called "Uranium", a year since the fourth Italian Parliament. There I also met with Health Minister Mrs. Grillo and President of the Defence Commission or the Committee on the Defence of the Parliament of Italy, Mr. Djanluk Ric. And what is essential is that the conference was held in front of families and relatives, the closest relatives of the deceased and the sick soldiers. The hall was huge, and the number of people was very large. I've had meetings after that with them. So, the story that Italy had no problem getting these soldiers sick is a lie. In a personal conversation, I saw for myself, collected documentation from these people. Therefore, the point is that Italy is a serious country and Italy has responded by forming the Commission to the problem that has arisen as a result of the emergence of malignancies in that population that is healthiest, has been regularly tested. The third session of the Commission was held on 18 September 2018. At that session, again in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we proposed the inclusion of the most important institutions in our country, to help us and to work together. We included the Institute of Nuclear Sciences Vinca, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Agency for the Environment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Faculty of Science, the Faculty of Chemistry of the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Agriculture, the Faculty of Forestry, the Institute of Public Health Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut, VMA, the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Serbia in Belgrade, the Institute of Oncology of Vojvodina in Sremska Kamenica, the Clinical Centre of Nis, the Institute for the Health Protection of Mothers and Child Vukan Čupić, the Clinical Centre of Kragujevac. We have included all relevant scientists and teachers who are important to our work. The Commission also includes the Faculty of Medicine in Pristina and its Rector, Prof. Zdravko Vitošević. Along with these institutions, together with significant individuals, scientists, the Commission has already achieved significant results. The fourth session of the Commission was held outside the seat. It was held in Vranj. The reason why we held a session in Vranj is that the Pcin County has just been affected by the contamination of the environment by the missiles that were made from the impoverished uranium. We had a meeting not only with health institutions in the territory of the Pcinj County, where we collected all relevant statistics, where we had a direct encounter with people. We met with people from the village of Bratoselce, Kosharno, Reljan, etc. What was remarkable to me was that only that day from the people of the village of Bratoselce, who usually numbers about 300 inhabitants, we recorded three brain tumors on that day based on medical records. There is no significant statistics and scientific work to be made on such a small pattern, but isn't it some signal to all these events and related to the environment and to human and resident health? On the 300 inhabitants, three people had brain tumors. And we found two other children with malignant blood diseases, and only one village. So, 1% of the population just found out that there was this pathology. Also, we had meetings that day with the workers of JP Vodavod Vranje, who worked on building wire fences around the contaminated area of Robbery, around the relay of the Robbery, right after NATO bombing. And these are workers who are in a working relationship, workers who are now retired and talking to the families of the deceased, who, unfortunately, are the most. The fifth session of the Commission was held on 18 March 2019. At the session, the guest was Professor Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, professor of epidemiology and assistant director of the Institute of Public Health of Serbia Milan Jovanovic Batut. She presented a significant study, which she worked with us on, on which we examined the health of children using a highly sensitive method, which is a study of generation cohorts. What does that mean? Unfortunately, children are also ill, but we can calculate that risk of disease for each generation of children at a certain age and that risk for different generations should be similar. Every deviation from that data turns on the light, lights the alarm, and with us the doctor causes suspicion and fears that some factor acted on those children and caused the disease. That's exactly what happened in a generation of five to nine years, and that's where we got signs of statistical significance, which is what the teacher presented. The sixth session of the Commission was held on 16 April in the Hall of the City of Kragujevac Assembly. The topic was oral contamination. Namely, the "Lakirnica Zastava" was a drive in which large, huge industrial transformers were, I would say, targeted by NATO aviation. Then there was an outflow of huge quantities of pirates in the river Ždraljica, first in the drive of the flag, then in the river Ždraljica, which pours into Lepenica and then into Morava. We had a meeting in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, not only with the directors of health institutions who brought statistics about the illnesses that are important to us, for our research, but also with people who directly cleaned the flag, and they are alive, and with the largest number of people who represent families who have cleaned up, and they have passed away. The largest number of people who cleaned the ‘Lakirnica zastava’ died of lung cancer. These men were cleaning the flag plant, the lakirnica plant after NATO aggression. The statistical consequences based on this data are evident. The seventh session of the Commission was held here in the building of this Parliament. The witness was Prof. Dr. Ivan Matic, professor of the Faculty of Mining and Geology in Belgrade retired, a prominent expert, who helped us and provided us with a lot of information and data that is important precisely for Kragujevac and Šumadija. In 2002, the EU financed one project consisting of the following – to analyse the contamination of the environment with a spiral in the Lepenica River Basin to the mouth in Morava. In short, the professor did research, carried the material to the Czech Republic, was sent to the Czech Republic because there are reference laboratories for the laundry and the results are catastrophic. Ten times he found higher values than the limit in some samples, in some samples five times the rate of intervention. The study ended in 2005 and, unfortunately, as if it had not seen the light of day. The state didn't react. There was no reaction. Nor were there attempts to continue the research and get new information on the movements of the concentration of the propylene. Unfortunately, I say, because it was an ideal period for analysis, for further work and for reaction. Unfortunately, the reaction is missing. We agreed with the Ministry of Environment to continue the study and to conduct an environmental survey, i.e. land on the move and the river in the coming period. This is about what we've been doing for over a year. A lot has been said about NATO aggression so far. Two decades later, we can view NATO aggression as one, I'd say, criminal action. What is particularly important is that today we can present remarkable illustrations of the consequences of this disgusting act. Also, this terrible and perilous event in our history we remember and mark, but we must not only remember and mark. We have to look at it from this distance so that we adequately identify ourselves to it in all dimensions. Why do I say that? Because NATO aggression has caused our country's developmental lagging behind. They were targeting intentional industrial plants. They were targeting vital industrial plants. We also have an unresolved Kosovo problem. It's the result of NATO aggression, most of all. We have many displaced, escaped and exiled with kiM which have destroyed and devastated property. We've got health consequences, we've got ecological devastation. In addition, we have a serious bias and absolute fondness of Western civilization to finish what the Albanians started, which is ethnically cleaning up Serbs at KIM. Also, NATO aggression has led to the stimulation and storage of the separatist ambitions of certain groups in our country. And that's all a fact. The consequences of these bombs falling on us, unfortunately, we're already feeling it. We are also facing one, I would say, an ecological and health disaster that will always be an indelible stain on the conscience of Western civilizations. We're a state victim, we must always know that. The only thing scares me is that the number of victims, after NATO aggression, with the flow of time, will be much greater than the number of victims created by direct criminal action. It's also inconsolable, at least for me, which, despite the flow of time, I haven't heard from any of those countries that bombed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that they're willing to accept at least part of their responsibility, and it's even worse to see that they now particularly care about the completion of the transfer in our region that they started and to lead it to their ultimate idea. In the end, I just want to tell you that, personally, I and the Commission are doing our best to bring what we are entrusted with by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to an end, in an impartial and objective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61265	Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing with special reference to the consequences of the bombing of the impoverished uranium. All of us who are 30 years old and over remember this hostile act well and when the month of March is mentioned, our first association is March 24th when NATO aggression took place. Of course, the month of March is, let's say, in black letters recorded in the history of the Serbian people. There's still a lot of things that happened in that month. We had the murder of the president, or the murder of Milosevic in The Hague, and then the murder of the prime minister, and then the famous March 27th, that I am not talking about it, but the first association, the most important and difficult for Serbia and the Serb people, was precisely this 24th March when NATO aggression took place. I come from the city of Nis, and it is known that the city of Nis is one of the cities that has suffered the greatest consequences of this hostile act. My colleagues, who are members of this commission, which we heard here and from Mr. Laketić, will talk more about concrete things, because they are more directed at it. What I can say is that the general public is not familiar with the fact that members of a military unit, almost all members of a Nish military unit, that I'm not talking about which unit it is, were killed. They died from the consequences of NATO bombing. I think something like that needs to know the general public, and these heroes of ours have had this accident to defend that part of enemy territory the aggressor handed over the most deadly cargo in this bombing. I want to point out here and praise that it is good that one such commission is formed, and in this sense all praise for this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as this Commission has arrived with its work, we have heard here a part of the President of the Commission. We hope that these tasks, a difficult task entrusted to them by this Assembly and the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, will lead to the end. The Serbian Radical Party has its own representative in this Commission, it is Professor Dubravko Bojic and, knowing him, with the greatest enthusiasm it has dealt with and hearing some things from him, I think this Commission is doing a good job of its own. Unfortunately, we can also notice some other things that don't exactly go in favor of all of this, which is that we have certain obstructions in this matter, above all informal circles. We have all read, heard, listened to the statements of Dr. Danica Grujic, who claims, which is in the most direct way involved in all of this and the actor is also a witness to everything that needs to be discussed and what is the task of this commission, that there are many problems and even threats to cancellations, death, etc. Something like that can't be allowed under any circumstances. The state of Serbia must stand in the protection of all its citizens, especially one of these, who is doing an exceptional job, a job of vital interest to the state of Serbia. Serbia has experienced many tragedies through its history, but this is one of the greatest. The final consequences of this will not be seen by those who live in Serbia today, but will be at the opportunity of the next generation. If we look back at world events, the trend of bullying small peoples is still present and if this continues this way, then there will be no way out for human civilization. It seems that the great do not think about the fates of small ones, and they think that it is only those who should enjoy the benefits of these planets and this world, and that there is no place for little peoples in this order, but that they simply have to play as they say. The Western civilization that personifies the NATO Pact and which is the personification of NATO aggression on our country is a civilization that has exerted a devastating influence on all other civilizations, starting with American Indians, African, Asian, Australian tribes and, of course, small peoples of Europe. Western-European civilization thinks they have a greater right to life than everyone else, especially think they have a greater right to a better life. And it really doesn't lead to anything, and it will lead all of Europe and the whole world, if this doesn't get in the way, to a certain disaster. Today, many people, including people from these Western civilizations, see that something is wrong, that a lot of things are wrong, but they can't understand what's really wrong, or they're simply not able to, they're not in a position to stand up to it, so by the system -- come on, I guess that'll pass. That may be the thing that's going on right now, but it doesn't seem like it. No deception can be seen at the beginning of the road, but it can always be seen at the end of the road. Where there is a force, and today we know that in the world there is a power, there can't be a word of any freedom, of any justice, of any democracy, etc. We are witnessing that, there, in 2001, 2002, when it was already, he withdrew charges against 19 NATO member states of the pact that have committed aggression against the Republic of Serbia and we believe that it was a catastrophic mistake. Such a thing is not allowed at any cost, and therefore this regime, which we must admit, takes a little more care of the interests of the people and the state, must take into consideration this issue and find a way to renew these claims, because every reasonable man on this earth and in this world it is clear that it was an eclectic example and an eclectic act of the most brutal aggression. There's always a way. Serbia has had the misfortune through its history that many conquerors, many enemies, have fought against it. Our people and our ancestors opposed as much as they could, and not just as much as they could, but much more than that, and that makes the history of a nation. We all know that, let's say, throughout history today, as Spartans in the Termopils, at the Thermopil Clan, have fought against a much stronger enemy of Persia, and that's something that's left in history. That fact itself speaks of the size of that nation that opposed it. If we were to mention this NATO aggression on our country now, it could indeed, it might seem pathetic to someone, but it could indeed be compared to that aggression in the Termopils by the Persians, because history never recorded the case that a nation, a country, had been attacked by a greater force and there was no more unequal relationship of power. And if that factor is in mind, that relationship of strength, material, military, economic and all other resources, in that sense we have nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, our army, our people, and our leadership, have done more than they could do in this respect, because we know that America, and America is the personification of the NATO Pact, fought many wars, countless wars after World War II and everywhere they fought wars, were not forced anywhere to sign such an agreement, but a Kumanian agreement. So, they didn't step on our soil with a soldier's boot, until before that, one way or another, that I wasn't getting into it, they weren't making any kind of deal. In that sense, given the ratio of strength, it can also be treated as our, in one part, victory. Of course, no one stands for the war option. These things should be avoided. There's always a way to confront the enemy. Branko Ćopić once said in his song that no saber has yet been forged that can cut our moons, our dawns and our dawns. There's always a way to confront the enemy. He doesn't have to be military. As a rule, it's always better if it doesn't have to be military. That is why we should oppose the enemy and our culture, our history, our athletes who certainly achieve success at every step and of course our young students and students and our young scientists. So I want to once again praise that it is good that this Commission exists and it is a good thing that this government is investing more and more in strengthening our army because we know that whoever doesn't have his army will have someone else's. Our army cannot now and when it is most capable of dealing with many armies, but in any case we see that our former neighbours and people who have lived in the common state in every way possible are provoking, anxiously, seeking something from the state of Serbia and we see that they are trying to sue a variety of courts, the UN is making war damages from Serbia. That is why it is our path to bind ourselves to those of our true military friends, which is, above all, Russia and lately China, and through strengthening our army and our resources, to protect our territory. We hope that these consequences, where people die daily, will not reach the most tragic, highest level, but we should think again about renewing the lawsuit and suing those countries that bombed the Republic of Serbia and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61267	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61268	Thank you, Chairman. I will also address myself as a member of this Commission who, behold, has been working for the second year. We have heard the presentation of Dr Laketić and summed up on the work of this Commission which has indeed done its best. This is a short period of time, and we've had so many meetings and so much data has been collected so far. I would remind you that this Commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombings on the health of the population, which was founded last year, was founded with one good majority of MPs. The formation of this Commission was voted by 152 MPs and it seemed that everyone had a common goal, which is to prove and present the truth about the consequences of NATO bombing. The Commission's task is to identify scientific facts that can be verified and can be proven and to learn about these findings about the National Assembly of Serbia. The main motive is to find out the truth and how much the health of citizens is at stake and how much this is due to NATO bombing. According to some estimates in Serbia, NATO bombings will increase the number of cancer patients until the middle of the next century. In addition, the number of babies born with this deformity grows slightly. Another indicator of the direct consequences of NATO aggression is breast cancer, where we are at the very top of Europe. The disease represented by women, the late-year population, in Serbia took primate in girls aged 20-25. About 5,000 women get sick every year, and about 2,000 women lose the battle with this disease. Also, in Serbia, 80% of children suffer from cancer each year more than in EU countries, and that is certainly not an accident. During the 78-day bombing, where 2,300 air strikes were carried out on 995 buildings across the country, and nearly 420,000 missiles were launched, over which NATO reported, 35,000 of them with poor uranium and over 90,000 of them, according to Russian sources. Overall, as many as 15,000 tonnes of poor uranium in southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are estimated to have been expelled. We're not just talking about the material damage that was done on that occasion. Serbia has filed a lawsuit against the NATO Pact on 24 April, but the International Court rejected the suit because Serbia was then not a UN member, therefore, only for procedural reasons. The comparisons were registered between 15,000 and 20,000 new cancer cases in Serbia prior to the 1999 bombing, to increase the number to as much as 40,000 newly ill. In addition to being more common, these tumors are more aggressive and according to research, our country is at the very top of Europe by the mortality of malignancies. The profession also believes that the dramatic increase in cancer and disease mortality in Serbia is due to the bombing of poor uranium, long-term continuous radiation, as well as the bombing of industrial and petrochemical plants during which toxic and carcinogenic substances affecting the health of the population and the environment are released. During the bombing, pirates from trafostations, powerful carcinogenic benzenes, as well as thousands of other product by-products and chemical substances were released as a result of the bombing of bow and refinery factories. If it's meant to be, not for the moment, but for the continuous, cumulative influence, then the danger is even greater. Most of the sites were bombed by poored uranium in KIM and southern Serbia, and there is a map of locations on the NATO Pact site. These effects are felt, not only in these locations, but in a much wider space, because they are contaminated both by air and land, as well as by the living world, flora and fauna, as well as by water. Unfortunately, the population in the endangered areas is not systematically controlled, especially in KIM, where it is assumed that the consequences are most severe for both the Serb and Albanian population, as the largest projectile with the poored uranium has been thrown at KIM. The problem of the inexplicable consequences of NATO bombing opened by the Italian parliament, as Italian troops from KFOR suffered from cancer. Over 500 Italian soldiers have been ill and 47 have passed away so far. Many Italian soldiers who were ill have sued for damages to the Italian state and all 19 NATO members. There have also been strong convictions. Focus on the consequences of bombing the poored uranium should exist, but we must not ignore the consequences of the mental health of our population as a result of the bombing. Even if there are no other health hazards, we must not ask ourselves – what about the mental health of the population? What about stress and posttraumatic syndrome? In view of the inconceivable and unpredictable consequences of our people's health and the environment in which future generations will live, the state must be responsible for identifying all the consequences of NATO bombing, which is also the attempt and work of this Commission. That is why it is necessary to establish the truth about the consequences of NATO bombings on our nation, citizens and the environment, no matter what that truth is. We owe the truth to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because what I believe we all agree with, the bombing of Serbia was a crime that unfortunately left tragic consequences. It is important that the public, experts, people's representatives and state authorities have almost an undivided view on this, and that is the right to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61269	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61270	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Laketić for his report on the Commission's work so far on the investigation of the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999, as well as all the members of the Commission's efforts so far. It was obvious that it had to be two decades ago that after so many years some government began to talk about how it was necessary to determine the consequences of health, the environment, which caused the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium during the 1999 NATO crime aggression, and not only to speak, but also to take the first concrete steps in determining the truth, which were reflected in the formation of the NATO bombing commission in 1999. When we talk about the war events of that year and when we specifically talk about the aggression on the SRJ without any real basis and without the approval of the UN Security Council, it carried out 19 of the richest countries in the world, gathered in the NATO Pact, the Serbian people have nothing to be afraid of, nor anything to be ashamed of. The Serbian people have never been on the wrong side in their history, never been an aggressor, never been a conquering people in 1999. That year, the Serbian people were forced to oppose the coming evil for the sixth time only during the 20th century, defending their centuries-old hearths, defending everything that generations and generations of citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia have created. In air raids that lasted 78 days without interruptions, aimless targets such as business facilities, infrastructure facilities, hospitals, schools, churches, cultural objects have been targeted. What is particularly significant is that the material damage the SRJ suffered is between $60 billion and $100 billion. In addition to unknowns related to material damage, the exact number of victims is unknown and this figure moves up to 3,000 victims, with more than 7,000 wounded. In order to definitely put an end to an unknown number of victims, the Socialist Movement has sent a proposal to parliament to establish besides the Commission for the investigation of the consequences of NATO bombing, a commission tasked with establishing the exact number of dead and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression, as well as to establish the name and name of each dead and wounded citizen, regardless of whether he was a member of the Yugoslav, MUP or civilian military during NATO aggression. NATO's aggression on the SRJ wasn't just a war conflict, because the SRJ wasn't the only enemy in the form of NATO soldiers at the time, but the criminals, terrorists, criminals and killers followed them, because whoever went to war to defeat or kill an enemy soldier, that is. The police officer, he is the enemy, because they both went to war with the same or similar purpose. But whoever goes to war to kill the children, to kill the sick, old and powerless, who goes into war with the intention of poisoning your country, water and air, and that in that way, I can freely tell you, kills even those who weren't born at that moment, that's the criminal and the murderer. After their military echelon, for years they've been sending us various experts, calling diplomats, and all sorts of domestic homeless people, alluding to the green American currency, who today are trying to convince us that the poor uranium is not dangerous, that it's even more medicinal, that our children and our children are killed by smoking and bad genetics, not the radioactivity of the poor uranium. How else do you call these people these people than monsters? But the Serbs know very well their genetics, the genetics that created one Nikola Tesla, Michael Pupin, Milutin Milankovic, Patriarch Pavlov, Uroš Predic, Sava Šumanović, one Novak Djokovic. Serbs know that the area in which they live today is not inhabited by thieves, criminals, rapists, murderers, such as the inhabited areas of certain world powers, which have proved their superior genetics to crimes against innocent Serbian, Iraqi, Libyan, Syrian children and civilians, as well as crimes against many other innocent peoples of the world. The crime and injustice that is being committed today, e.g. of the innocent people of Venezuela. For all of this, I would once again like to tell the gentleman in question that the Serbian people know their genetics very well, and that is the genetics of one of the best and most humane people, which is the quality of their genetics, e.g. prove back in 1885, when Serbia interrupted war facts against Bulgaria for one day to miss transportation with Bulgarian wounded across its territory. Because of this event in the hall of the International Red Cross building in Geneva, today stands the signboard – be human as it was in human Serbia in 1885. After the Serbian people, no other people have ever again earned such gratitude by their humanity, especially some of the 19 military forces that have committed aggression against the SRJ. The Socialist movement, the party I represent in this Parliament, is aware of our obligation to determine the truth, to determine what caused this significantly increased frequency rate, particularly malignant diseases, and particularly malignant diseases in those young, among those who were not even born during the shameful NATO aggression. The Commission will determine the facts and the truth and we from the Socialist Movement will stand firm behind that truth and fight for it always and everywhere. We will fight for our children, for those who have not yet been born and who are yet to be born, for those who have not earned anything to be victims of someone's monstrosity. We are convinced that the proposed colleague Milena Turk will be able to contribute to the quality of the Commission's work, and we will also support the votes in the voting day along with colleagues from the People's United Peasants' Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61271	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61272	The esteemed chairman, co-workers and colleagues, the SNS supports the election of counterpart Milena Turk as a member of the Commission for the investigation of the effects of NATO bombing on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the environmental impact. We are convinced that they will work hard, hard and committed in this Commission, and the Commission's job is of great importance, because bombing with modern means of killing, with great human casualties and a great destruction of the country, has caused huge, invaluable and invaluable damage to Serbia's environmental system, i.e. the SRJ. The harmful consequences of the bombing are long-term, and the health effects not only of the current generation of Serbian citizens, but also of generations of descendants, are inconspicuous. During the aggression, the whole country was a NATO polygon to investigate the efficiency of the most modern electronic technique and new weapons. During NATO's aggression, NATO waged an indirect chemical biological war against SRJ citizens and their environment. In explosives and rocket fuels, during the bombing, chemical compounds were used to release large amounts of highly toxic and carcinogenic compounds or chemical radicals through their combustion. A total of 112 locations in the area of the SRJ were shot at the impoverished uranium. Most of them were dumped in KIM territory. About 15 tons of poor uranium, which is a by-product of uranium 235, is otherwise used as fuel in nuclear power plants. But in the aftermath of these bombings, not only are tons of poor uranium listed but also tons of harmful and carcinogenic, chemical matter scattered and burned because of the bombing. The use of this ammunition on civilians is prohibited by the Resolution of the Sub-Committee for the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the Human Rights Commission of 1996 and 1997. The detonation of various conventional-explosive missiles has forced a large amount of gas into the atmosphere, resulting in acid rain. The released gases are toxic, and when combined with the combustion products of certain chemical compounds, they produce effects of the real chemical war. Bombing targeted targets, industrial plants and warehouses, chemical raw materials, as well as the burning of oil tanks and oil plants are indirectly caused by effects with consequences such as the use of battle poisons. In the midst of the explosion and the fire, the earth’s water streams reached huge amounts of highly toxic and dangerous matter’s health. Such bombings cause ecological disaster, endangering the area with sources of unpolluted water and food. The shooting of chemical industry factories such as Petrochemy, Azotara and the Panchev and Novi Sad oil refineries, the First Iskra in Barič, oil tanks at multiple locations and other facilities located on the banks of the Sava and Danube rivers, except for the pollution of the atmosphere and land, has also caused water flow pollution. During the aggression, Panchevo was exposed several times to the effects of the real chemical war. Therefore, NATO strategies have deliberately polluted air, water and country in Serbia and thus endangered the health of its citizens. In many parts of Serbia, which were most often hit by NATO aviation, the number of cancer patients, for example, five years after the aggression was 200% higher than the usual average before the bombing. Even the US Congress formed a Commission that examined the degree of environmental pollution in Serbia following NATO's aggression. A report submitted by the Commission said that the degree of pollution is extremely high and that the most polluted cities of Panchevo, Kragujevac, Novi Sad. The Commission said further information was requested from the US Ministry of Defence on the bombing, but of course not received. That NATO committed crimes on purpose and planically, according to US General Michael Short's statement, whose son was otherwise hit on plane A-10 above Cosmet, the chief air operations commander over the SRJ. He says, I quote, "You can't get a job unless we destroy the possibilities of normal life for most of the population. We need to take away their water, their electricity, their food, even their healthy air." It's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's... But then NATO Secretary General George Robertson said after the aggression ended that there was no scientific evidence that poor uranium caused health problems. But the truth is different. In the U.S. and NATO countries, they know well how much ammunition use with poor uranium is dangerous to human health and the environment. Former Major Doug Rock, responsible for radiological protection of the U.S. Army, a physics professor and former director of a projectile development programme with impoverished uranium, published documents in 1994 confirming that the US authorities were aware of the genocide consequences of the use of poor uranium in 1943. U.S. military regulations in the field of radiation protection require every soldier to wear a protective suit while training and wear a protective mask at each activity at 20 to 50 metres from an object affected by ammunition with impoverished uranium. Why, if there are no adverse consequences? Radiological weapons and other U.S. sources and knowledge cause lasting consequences for the population after the war has stopped. That's what Dr. Alexandra Miller wrote about in her papers, who worked in American military structures. All of this, therefore, was well known to the planners of the use of this type of weapon during NATO's criminal aggression on our country in 1999. That is why they are now taking steps to protect their units and officials in Kosovo and Metohija. Members of the "West" multinational brigade, after the entry of KFOR on Cosmet in November 1999, received a nuclear-chemical-biological manual, titled KFOR International Brigade "West" impoverished uranium, information and instruction. In addition to the manual's name, there's a dead body head on the front page that warns of radioactive danger. The contents of some of the handbooks point to the kind of dangers faced in the field by the brigade members and how to deal with them. The part called ‘Golden Rules’ states: ‘Keep away from tanks, vehicles and buildings affected by missiles or cruise missiles with impoverished uranium, wear a protective mask if you work within 500 metres of the tank, vehicle or building affected by missiles or missiles with impoverished uranium. Inhaling insoluble particles of uranium dust is long-term associated with health consequences, including cancer and malformation of newborns. These consequences can only become visible a few years later," says the instructions given to US soldiers. The situation of the cover-up of truth, and the international situation, shows a report that in May 1999 the United Nations in general hid from the public. It is a shocking report by Senegal's Bakari Kante, head of the first UNEP mission, the United Nations Human Environment Programme on the environmental consequences of the SR Yugoslavia bombing. This text has never been published by the United Nations, but its parts have been leaked to the public, thanks to US independent journalist Robert Parsons, a reporter from international institutions in Geneva. Robert Parsons testifies that the United Nations offices, in the atmosphere of internal dissension, censored and haired reports on the health consequences of the use of weapons with impoverished uranium in the Balkans. After 12 days of staying in another bombed-out SR Yugoslavia, in May 1999, where it was with missions from other UN agencies, Bakari Kante submitted to UNEP a report on the ecological horror: "The atmosphere and soil in the former SR Yugoslavia are permanently polluted with toxic matter due to the bombing of an industrial-chemical complex and the use of weapons with impoverished uranium." The report is categorical in the assessment that the next generations living on bombed soil will suffer from carcinogenic diseases – leukemia, the number of spontaneous abortions and malformations of newborns will be increased. The eighth chapter of the censored report by Bakari Kante discusses pollution caused by the use of weapons with poor uranium. According to available data, the report says, NATO forces have used ammunition with impoverished uranium to target military and civilian targets. The use of this ammunition has terrible consequences for the population, as it causes radiological contamination in addition to physical injuries. The contamination has toxic and radiation consequences caused by cancer, according to the Cantva report, which was sent to UNEP Director General Klaus Tofer in May 1999. Cants further states: “When weapons of poor uranium are used, uranium oxide is produced, such as, among other things, highly reactive radion and radon gases. Oxid particles are the widths between 0.5 and five microns and the wind can blow them away at hundreds of kilometers." Staying in Yugoslavia in May 1999, while the bombing continues, Kante witnessed an ecological disaster and writes: "Serious damage has been done to man's environment by destroying oil refineries, oil-chemical complexes, chemical and artificial fertilizer factories, pharmaceuticals and other industrial plants." Klaus Topher, UNEP director-general, ordered that the public turn aside knowledge of the environmental disaster in Serbia, unprecedented in European history. Experts of the United Nations environment programme immediately after NATO bombing the SR Yugoslavia have carried out a new mission to assess environmental threats amid aggression. The report, titled "Kosovo conflict – a consequence of the environment, human settlements", published by UNEP in November 1999, was more about the chronology of bombings and political assessments than the expert assessment of the environmental situation. The report, however, recognised the environmental hazard in four so-called "four". Hot spots, in Novi Sad, Pancheva, Kragujevac and Bora. The problem of using ammunition with impoverished uranium has largely come to the recommendations of members of the international force in Kosovo and Metohija how to behave if they stay in potentially endangered areas. Disturbation of the international public over the appearance of the so-called "Balkan syndrome" during the year 2000 forced UNEP representatives to re-exploit the effects of using ammunition with impoverished uranium in the environment. In November 2000, UNEP experts conducted a mission to assess the environmental threat to 11 sites in Kosovo and Metohija. The report was published in April 2001. Yugoslav experts were not involved in the mission. Research has been done to about 12% of sites, in the very conclusions it has been reduced to endangered environments. However, the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium has been recorded, and even plutonium has been found in some samples, bringing further concern about the degree of environmental hazard in ammunition sites. In the period from 27 October to 5 November 2001, UNEP experts and Yugoslav experts carried out a new mission to assess the threat of living environments in southern Serbia and Montenegro. The report was published in April 2002. The UNEP report on the impoverished uranium in southern Serbia on the Art of Arza in Montenegro, which was published in April 2002, is essentially similar to the previous UNEP report -- Kosovo from 2001. In both reports, it was unequivocally confirmed that ammunition with poor uranium was used. The results in southern Serbia and Montenegro are more accurate than samples taken at previously identified locations. In this mission air sampling equipment that has not been used in Kosovo has also been used. It's an amazing fact that after two and a half years, radioactive particles have been detected in the air. This find raises strong doubts about the Kosovo report's conclusions, but also the conclusions of the report in southern Serbia and Montenegro. This means that radioactive particles are still transmitted to large distances through the air, endangering the environment and the health of the population. This finding is an argument that decontamination, which is still possible, is largely done as soon as possible. Finally, the conspiracy of international proportions aimed at hiding the truth about the effects on the environment and people's health from the criminal bombing of the NATO Pact and the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium continues. Therefore, the Commission's work has special weight and long-term significance. The Commission needs to find out the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61273	Thank you. As no one calls from the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we continue the debate in order of the MPs and the application for a word in a single search. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61274	Thank you. First of all, I would suggest to work group president Laketić that there is a PhD defended in 2003 at the Faculty of Biology on the consequences of NATO bombing of trafostations in Kragujevac and pollution from pirate oil. I think if they didn't have an insight into that doctorate, it could be found on the link of the first original.com, which is in Kragujevac. Secondly, I support all activities of the Working Group with regard to continuing work. Third, I support all those who are finally in order to make a full list of all victims of NATO aggression, and that, in line with the Serbian tradition for those who have disappeared, they are helped to be built by the highways, beside their houses and properties, in the streets where they lived or in the places where they were last seen. Also, I suggest that the Assembly draws a binding conclusion to the government of the Republic of Serbia that all states participating in NATO aggression are asked for compensation, through all international organisations and through all judicial cases. We can forgive but must not forget and must not neglect the consequences that have been done to our country. One of these consequences is a demographic exodus from these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61275	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61276	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a full 20 years of criminal NATO bombing, we have finally dared to speak to this unremembered genocide in a way that determines the real consequences of this crime and the eco-genocide at the end of the 20th millennium. It is also terrible for human dignity that we can only now and can talk about this genocide, and all of this thanks to those who were brought to power by NATO on October 5th and who, not only tried to relativise, reduce, facilitate, but even cover up its catastrophic situation. To remind you of NATO bombings were called campaigns, air strikes, interventions, and only today in the National Assembly do we have a job so ungrateful that this is something we want and we can say. How many who are no longer among the living and who would have and could say what? You should have heard these earthquake stories and seen these people in Vranje, because on the Vranje – Bujanovac move, the section considers that most of the projectile with the impoverished uranium was fired. Nothing smaller was the problem with a cancerous spiral, as a result of the flag bombing on the night of the eighth to the ninth, on April 12th, 1999. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that New Sad, Bor, Panchevo and Kragujevac were the most polluted cities. We'll agree that this isn't about some infectious disease, but it's about a cumulative, now two decades of harmful fact. Here I would absolutely agree with my colleague Torbica and colleague Ševarlic, to finally establish the exact number of victims and names of each of them. As a member of the Commission, I asked for the report with results to be presented to the National Assembly and for the brochure with conclusions to be published and translated into increasingly larger world languages and the results to meet the important all European institutions, as well as the United Nations Security Council. To meet with the report all neighbouring countries, to see if they formed their own commissions and whether they were doing analysis. Then, to see diplomatic results, the 1999 "Focus" diplomatic group made up of Switzerland, Austria, Russia and Greece, to use the report already mentioned by Senegal's Bakari Kante, to use international aid, if any financial, professional and any other, unfortunately we had only the assistance of the fourth Italian parliament commission. Then talk to Robert Parsons at UN headquarters in Geneva. Requesting a report from the Swedish Institute of Radiological Protection and Swiss Laboratory. Key words in the work of this commission are: permanent pollution of toxic substances, cancer, leukemia, spontaneous abortion, malformations of newborns, nuclear waste, Uranium 238, poored uranium, radiological and chemical decontamination, polluted air, soil and water, health and environmental consequences. These are questions that only make sense if this bombing is treated, not as a Serbian issue, but as a global, civilization, human, is not a matter of one time in 1990, not a question of one regime, but a question of humanity, the survival of the species, because its consequences extend to the next millenniums of the fascist genocide of the last century, this is now the largest genocide in the image of the world alliance. The nuclear energy that man has released from the core of the atom and has mastered it has a great perspective in light of the fact that natural energy resources of oil, natural gas from day to day, and the need for it is growing and greater. The construction of nuclear plants costs a few billion dollars, but the benefits of that energy undermine all these expenditures. Today, there are supplies of nuclear weapons in the world that could destroy the entire human race. Around the world there are 442 nuclear power plants that produce 15% of electricity, 35 are constructions, and 95 have completed their work. The biggest problem is the nuclear waste storage facility. It has been found that the natural background of ionizing radiation is enormously increasing in recent decades due to nuclear energy, whether for peaceful use or weapons, so that by searching for new achievements, man has polluted his own environment with agents that threaten the life of all living beings on the planet. In particular, the indication of malignant tumours of ionizing radiation in humans is. So we NATO bombings were a live experiment to test the poored uranium by NATO villains. As I'm a member of this NATO-related research committee, I'm going to tell you that missiles with poor uranium are used to destroy armored combat vehicles of tank transporters and that in the impact of this projectile with an impoverished uranium, temperatures of over 3,000 degrees and that other particles that go into the ground and air are toxic, can also be deadly to those who breathe them, and through the food chain and to man. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to point out here that we were a small-scale commission and that in our work we used a lot of the experience of the fourth Italian commission, Mr. Djan Pierre Skanu. The Commission of all seven members who, I must admit, has never been in complete composition, so I hope that by choosing a new colleague in the commission membership, we will be able to do a little more and more effectively. I say, a commission with only seven members, unlike an Italian who had 20 members and who had her own budget, had the role of prosecutor, could have sued for false testimony, could have proposed laws and so on. I don't know why there are other commissions here. The government's board of experts, I think that the divorce here was unnecessary, that everything could have coincided as the assembly committee that has the highest authority, as the largest body, then some lawyer, I think it's all organized. I mean, what we're doing wouldn't make sense if it wasn't for the state, relying on its allies, real friends, like China and Russia, to raise the issue of war damage collection. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61277	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61278	I will, like my colleagues who spoke before me, confirm all the things that Professor Laketic said, the President of the Commission, our fellow MP, who really said a lot of things. All the problems that have arisen since the bombing of those bad things that NATO's alliance has done, where they've been throwing everything that moves in every part of our Serbia, targeted Nis, all the small municipalities have been shot, the consequences. These consequences, I am sure, that this commission of ours, led by Mr. Laketić, will determine the possibility of some things being improved and normal for some of our people to be helped and normally financially to ask for some help from those who were throwing us. I think it was inappropriate, that it wasn't normal, but what's done is we're talking about it here now, for the first time we're talking about something that was done in 1999. For the first time, the Assembly's assembly, our assembly of Parliament, spoke of it, and condemned all those things that were sacracial during NATO aggression. I think this assembly of ours and we're all talking about those things that are negative, which are bad, where there's a really large number of our young people who have malignancies, leukemia, everything that's bad. I think of all of us sitting here we know what we're doing and I, as an MP and as a man, will support the proposal that a new member of the Commission be Milena Turk, a young person, a person who knows, a chemist by profession and a person who has feelings for all the necessary things. Mr. Laketic, as President of the Commission, is a man who really speaks in detail about everything, has experience, knowledge, and so does the other commissions. By the way, I don't think anyone's gonna blame me because these days, I mean. In a few days, there will be another election in Kosovo, where I call once again on all of our people to come out on October 6th and vote in favour of our "Serbia" list, because this is another chance to work in the interest of our country of Serbia. Dear fellow MPs, I'm sure we all know what we're doing here, and Mr. Laketti will, along with our Milena, I'm sure she'll have the opportunity to determine all the negative things and ask for responsibility from those who were throwing us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61279	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61280	Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, firstly I would like to express my satisfaction that a Commission was formed to investigate the effects of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as an impact on the environment with a special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. I am convinced that the Commission has the capacity and expertise to do the entrusted work in the best possible way, and for the benefit of all citizens of our Republic. Bombs have never and never brought anything good wherever they are used in the world, but to throw them mercilessly at a small country, such as Serbia, which has not caused great world forces to reciprocate us in such a way, is indeed a major crime against our people. We're not large numbers, but in all the wars we've fought so far, we've never attacked anyone to conquer other people's territories, we've always been targeted by all the conquerors who intend to expand towards Europe. We were guards at the door of Europe, and then the great forces returned to us by bombing and occupying the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I will quote the dictionary, recently held "The Wolf's Assembly" in Trsic, a respected director, Emir Kusturica, who at the time said: "The United States bombed SRJ not because of endangered human rights and crimes, but because of the shift of military force towards the east. The Atlantic Force has shown the muscles not only to us, but also to Europe, where drama and new territory have taken place." No one's life has a price, and thousands of people died, women, children. What was the fault of a little militia who lost her life sitting on a stretch or an unborn child in the womb with her mother and all the other innocent victims and wounded and mutilated in that 70-year-old bombing was nothing to do with the NATO people, and they took their life, something that is most valuable to every living being? Not to mention the destruction of cities, hospitals, bridges, roads, factories, railways, television, military facilities, religious facilities, repeaters, buses. Our city is the only one in Europe, the largest number of times in its history has been bombed, yet it has survived and is proudly bright in its size. In addition to the lost innocent lives of thousands of people, there has been a major psychological trauma among all our citizens. The very sound of the siren, and then the plane crash couldn't leave anyone indifferent, because it was known to sow death, it was just a question of who it would hit at that moment. We all lived in suspense and fear. As a doctor, I can say that in the last two decades, the number of malignancies has increased and that the age for the occurrence of these diseases is increasingly moving towards a lower population. I'm convinced it has a lot to do with thousands of missiles with impoverished uranium and the products of its collapse, which have been dumped on our territory and which we can never get rid of. Treatment of these patients requires teamwork, large material investment, and as a result we get a person mostly reduced working ability. In addition to the damage to the individual, the damage to society as a whole suffers. If the Italians have proven the existence of a causal link between their soldiers' malignancies, members of KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija, I really don't know how our population would be spared that harmful influence, especially where their concentration was high. As a gynecologist, I noticed that there was a higher number of spontaneous abortions in the early months of pregnancy. I hope that this commission will look closely at and examine whether the faulty genetic mutations have been caused by the adverse impact of the poored uranium or toxic products caused by its decomposition. Also, there is an increasing number of young couples who have problems with conception and need professional help, requiring large material resources. Whether this too will be the result of NATO's harmful aggression on our country, I ask the Commission to pay special attention to that. My proposal to the great powers who bombed us, to pay us war damage, to at least ease the suffering and distress of all our citizens who have suffered or suffered and today any consequences of their bombs thrown into our territory. Also, I suggest that the former owner of the Farmacoma share his profits estimated at around 20m euros in Zajaca alone with residents of Zajaca and the surrounding area, at least paying them a little bit for all the evil he has done to them with his unconscious business, which is water, air, land pollution, and worst of all, children full of lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61281	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61282	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, NATO bombing in 1999 has caused major consequences for Serbia's citizens' health. The incidence of malignancies is significantly increased, especially where factories are bombed, especially industrial plants. According to the study, they were found to have malignancies and children aged five to nine years and to increase in number of patients. For example, according to a 2014 report by the president of the Serbian Cancer Society, cancer has been said to have increased by two and a half times the world average. For example, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is compared to 2013, 50% more is the presence of malignant diseases. It can also be noted that, during the bombing, so much poison has been thrown into the environment, about 15 tons of poor uranium, and it can be concluded that this is the main cause of an increase in malignant diseases, especially in children from birth to 18 years of age. We have the latest example of illnesses is a small five-year-old Helena Raven, where we can see on social networks the cry of family and friends for help of half a million euros for treatment in France. Why are they the most endangered? Because all those born after NATO bombing, where they live and grow during certain ecological changes, release of various toxins, or poisons, especially the facts of the poored uranium. We have repeatedly stressed the research by the Commission of the Italian Parliament, which has proved that there is a link between the poored uranium to the death of Italian soldiers who were on a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija. This high house formed the Commission to investigate and do what the Italian Commission did, i.e. the Italian Parliament. It came with a big pomp and enthusiasm, which I don't doubt the Commission that was formed, to do something big for the citizens of Serbia, and it moved, but unfortunately, it cares. I ask why and is this Commission just for the sake of advertising and to distract both the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Perhaps this Commission is bothering friends from the West, that it should just be on paper and not live, without burdening thousands and thousands of Serbian citizens with malignancies, by what I said, under the quote of a friend of Serbia, with his own "merciful angel". In the end, I will quote the president of the Serbian Society for the fight against cancer: "Throwing the poored uranium to one people is a crime. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61283	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61284	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the consequences of the 1999 criminal NATO bombing are tragic for the citizens of Serbia, and these consequences will not be suffered only by us but by many future generations. I would remind you that NATO has bombed both certain chemical and oil plants that are extremely dangerous for both human health and the entire ecosystem. This kind of facility doesn't normally bomb in the event of a war, precisely because it can cause major disasters. Then, four locations in southern Serbia were bombed with poor uranium, in the vicinity of Vranja: Omlječevica, Borovac, Reljan, and between 10 tonnes and 15 tonnes of poor uranium were extradited to Serbia-Montenegro. The presence of plutonium indicates that it's on SRJ, that it's actually bombed with nuclear waste. Many cities in Serbia such as Novi Sad, Bor, Panchev, Kragujevac, these cities were declared insecure for the lives of people and there, although there was no poverty in uranium, were targeted by certain chemical plants and then there was the spilling and burning of various toxic and carcinogenic matter. As I said at the outset that the consequences of the bombing were catastrophic, I would also present some data on the increase in malignant diseases, because the expansion of malignant tumours coincided with a latent period of exposure to carcinogenic agents during the 1999 aggression, and the first six to seven years later increased leukemia disease, because for this type of cancer period is the shortest and then from other malignant tumours. As far as leukemia is concerned, mortality has increased by 139% since 2002. If we look at the period from 2002 to 2005, there were 32,000 people who were registered with various malignancies. By 2009, the number increased by about 8,500 people, while mortality increased by 5,500. By 2014, nearly 40,000 newly ill with different types of malignancies were registered. The period from 2002 to 2005, the average number of leukemia patients was about 800 and this was about 74% more leukaemia, and I already noted that mortality increased by 139%. If we compare the global average of malignancies compared to the number of patients in Serbia, the global average is 2,000 per million people, while in Serbia the figure is 5,500 per million people, which means that Serbia is, unfortunately, 2.7 above the global average. Then, when the Commission's investigation into NATO bombings in 1999 showed that children were born between 1999 and 2015, which were exposed to a toxic factor affecting malignancies, these studies unequivocally show that more and more generations in a certain period were exposed to some factor that made them vulnerable to malignant diseases. Of course, when we talk about all this data, about health consequences, the most drastic example is the number of children who are ill, according to the Institute of Batut, is 314 children a year. I would also point out that right now, unfortunately, the cytostatics are missing and that they are necessary to continue treatment. All this data is unequivocally pointing out and they are only one in a series of evidence that the EU should not be approached, because it certainly draws with it and membership in the NATO Pact, and we are all witnessing what this criminal organisation has brought us, which is at war for the interests of large capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61285	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61286	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, in the spring of 1999, NATO aggression began on Serbia without UN Security Council approval and had no respect for international law. The bombing of Serbia, involving 19 Alliance countries, lasted 78 days. About 2,500 people died in it, and injured and injured over 12,500. 20,000 missiles and 40,000 cluster bombs were then dropped in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On the night between March 25th and 26th, there was a first attack on Leskovac. When he was bombed, a warehouse with military ammunition in the Arab Valley was hit, and 500 buildings were killed by explosions and detonations. The next morning the city was in the heart of the columns, all the glass in the bars and most of the homes were broken. The territory of the town of Leskovci killed 67 fighters, wounded 92, and out of them 45 members of the Yugoslav Army and the reserve. The attack on the Throat took place on April 12th on the second day of Easter. Passenger train number 393, which was trafficling from Nis to Ristovac, was hit by missiles as it crossed the bridge in the Grdelička Klisur. Four missiles fired from NATO aircraft. Two were hit by a train, and two fell on a road bridge nearby. From the first missile of the locomotive and the first wagon were separated from the rest of the composition. The second missile burned the third wagon, while the fourth one was stuck to the tracks. The number of passengers killed has never been established, and it is known that at least 15 civilians were killed in the attack. It is believed that at the time of the train attack, there were over 70 passengers, including children. The attack on a passenger train crossing the train bridge in Grdelica is one of the most tragic images of NATO aggression on our country. With the memory of the victims, we need to do everything we can to ensure that Serbia is not brought into war again. Our country has been too drawn into wars throughout the 20th century and everything we do should be done in such a way as never to be involved in any war again. Unfortunately, we can't bring back the dead, but by remembering we can kind of extend their existence between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61287	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61288	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I am sorry that there are no people from the Alliance for Serbia in the hall when discussing a very important topic – the consequences of our country's criminal NATO bombing. I understand them in some ways, because some of them during our country's bombing were locators, and some persuaded our country to bomb faster and harder. So they were regular domestic NATO dusters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the aggression of the criminal NATO alliance in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999 was the first aggressive war that NATO itself has waged since its existence as a defence alliance. The NATO Alliance's aggression was carried out in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a sovereign country that did not endanger NATO's interests, either by any member or by the Balkans or anywhere in the world, but has tried to solve the internal problem caused by an armed rebellion by Albanian terrorists, or by a separatist at KIM. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have failed, as you know, all attempts by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia to resolve the crisis in KIM through direct dialogue on a principle-based peaceful path. However, negotiations in Rambuje and Paris were only one farce, designed to fail. America had no political solution to the crisis with these negotiations. The US goal was to bring NATO troops to our territory if Yugoslavia signed an agreement or if the agreement did not sign, security of the good and international public acceptable, formal, cause for war against our country. The aggression was carried out after NATO's decision to the pact, more specifically by the decision of America without the mandate of the UN Security Council. All international law norms and international relations systems established by the UN Charter, the 1975 Helsinki Document, the 1949 Geneva Convention, the 1977 Additional Protocol and the North Atlantic Treaty founding act. What is very important, honourable MPs, is that Germany, Great Britain and Italy participated in the bombing of Serbia against their own constitutions and against their own laws. With this kind of behaviour, America suspended the UN organisation, in fact, by doing so, by bombing Serbia, together with NATO the pact imposed an ancient law, the jungle law, according to Solženjicin. Dear People's MPs, let me say that NATO used ammunition with poor uranium in the aggression of the SRJ in 1999. There's a lot of evidence for that, and the most reliable are... First, contaminated uranium land was established in 238 at six locations on the territory of SRJ van KIM. Five locations have been established in the Vranja, Bujanovac, Presevo districts in Montenegro at the site of Cape Arza on the Lustica Peninsula. 112 effects were carried out using ammunition with impoverished uranium at 91 locations. Twelve facts at nine locations in Serbia, two facts on the location in Montenegro and 98 facts on 81 locations in KIM. It is estimated that over 50,000 grenades with low uranium or over 15 tonnes were fired in the SRJ territory. Dear People's MPs allow me to quote a NATO bomber to our country, a Spanish fighter pilot, Martin de la Hoz, captain. I quote: "On many occasions our colonel protested with NATO commanders for targeting non-military targets. They threw him out with swearing. They once received orders from the North American army that we should drop tape bombs on sites above Pristina and Nis. The colonel absolutely refused, and a few days later, his transfer order arrived. Since we arrived in Italy, Captain de la Jose continues, there has been no end to humiliation. Commanding officers are exclusively North American generals, no one else. They destroy the earth, bomb it with new missiles, war poisons, surface mines thrown out of the parachute, uranium-containing bombs, sprayed the poison on crops, and used everyday weapons we don't even know about yet. North American Americans are one of the greatest barbarians that can't be imagined against humanity at all," finished a quote, Artikolo 20 magazine number 13, watch the date from June 14th 1999. Dear People's MPs, the Serbian people survived 500 years of the Ottoman Empire, survived the criminal Nazis and their Croatian and Muslim allies, survived the brutal Tito's rule, survived the DoS rule, survived the Serbian people and NATO bombing, survival, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian people and these increasingly intense pressures on Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic when he invested all his intellectual and other abilities to seek a compromise, permanent and sustainable solution to our southern Serbian province. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hope America will build good relations with our country Serbia. The condition, in my opinion, is to apologize for the bombing of our country and for the wars of the '90s, with the payment of war damage. So be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61289	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'll just take a moment. All we heard today about this topic is the best evidence that Serbia should reconsider its European path, if for nothing else, because of the fact that EU membership is inevitably pulling NATO membership with it sooner or later. Let's not kid ourselves. By joining NATO, Serbia would enter a society of bandits and we can look back and see what our neighbours, Bulgaria, Romania, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, have received by membership in NATO? Nothing. They only got the obligation to send their young people to Iraq, Afghanistan, and other battlefields on the globe to serve there as cannon meat. All those who believe that joining NATO will receive protection are mistaken. NATO is not designed to protect someone, but to threaten someone. I haven't thought of those countries that are NATO's own founders since the beginning of NATO's membership. The best evidence for that is Cyprus. England, which is one of the main NATO members in Cyprus, owns its bases. For 40 years, part of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus has been occupied. Even now NATO is part of the European Union. None of these NATO members have moved to protect the people and restore the sovereignty of Cyprus throughout their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-01-0.u61291	Thank you. After having carried out a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft decision in the voting day, and on the basis of Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, October 2, 2019, starting at 9.45 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
