ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Emergency Sector – when will you approach the amendment of the Law on Anti-City Protection in order to finally regulate this area and to prevent Serbia from waiting for the disastrous consequences of the city, such as on 19 May this year, but that the competent state authorities, units of local self-government, which are obliged to protect it from the city of settlement, which is more than seven million hectares in Serbia, act on time by means that will allow them first of all the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the way it is arranged in many other countries? Today in Serbia, in the 21st century, anti-urban protection is carried out through launch centres which are 13 in Serbia, over 1,400 launch stations, technology from the 1970s. You think it's normal, because anti-urban protection was organised and for the first time in the Serbian area was started long ago in 1968, when the rule was first passed, but this was the year 2019 and crops, which people had badly planted, sown, are now destroyed because of the negligence of the state, and above all by the competent authorities that should do so. What are the problems with anti-urban protection, that people know, because each one of these farmers expects this miracle to happen and that someone will protect him from the city at that moment first because of the fact that you tried to edit this area by the 2015 Law. You must arrive immediately, I am speaking again to the competent ministry, and to the entire government, with the amendment of this law in order to oblige RHMZ to distribute anti-urban missiles based on predictable situations. This is how we have the situation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is May 23rd, and four days ago there was a total disaster, especially in the area of Ivanjica, Požega, 15 days ago in the area of the municipality of Topol, that many rockets remained in drawers and were not used because there was no predictability of the situation. So I can't have anti-urban missiles distributed in such a way that everyone has it for something. They can't let go of mercy and mercy, it's usually people over 60 and 70 years old, that they're volunteering to do this job for a lousy compensation of 4,000 dinars, and they're thinking -- and if I've saved a rocket since last year, and if someone delivered it to me and if he's had mercy to give me another one this year to protect the area from that launch station. It is, therefore, a disaster, a great irresponsibility and a huge damage measured in billions of dinars. We'll only have an estimate now, and remember what happened a few days ago, but remember 2017? Didn't you have there, as the people would say, a subsequent mind so that you could do all the things that are applied everywhere in the world to protect these people? You can't tell when you know everything. So much science has gone away, so much technology has gone away, you can't predict a situation. Well, every kid on the Internet, on these cell phones apps, every man can look at the predictable, how-so-so-time forecast for the next seven bottoms. Here, let's talk about the experience we've been in the People's Republic of China, so that's where it's all known. Well, how would they prevent such mistakes and such disasters on huge agricultural crops from doing business properly? Well, there'd be someone there right now who'd be out of office and out of work, and here, it doesn't matter. What do we have after that? People appear by the hydrometeorological institute who say – it's this one and they transfer responsibility to each other. The second question is referred to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance – when, after the initiative launched by us Serbian radicals here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is supported by Mr Risticevic as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to meet the government's commission to allow farmers, and they are over 200 thousand who have entered the programme for accumulated debts, freed the works concerning non-payment for health insurance? Many of them, therefore, did not use health care, and they cannot go on a farm pension because the debts are huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54869	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54870	Thank you, Chairman. Today, I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, which concerns a serious social, or social programme first of all. It is children and persons with special needs, with several thousand in Serbia, who require day-to-day supervision and care. Most of these children are cared for by their biological families, and one number is located in social protection institutions. Several times, an initiative has been launched to resolve the status of children’s parents with disabilities who take care of their children and care for their health, or care for them for 24 hours. During the adoption of the 2011 Social Protection Act, the SPS parliamentary group, in co-operation with a number of special-needed parents' associations, managed to act as a legal solution by which the right to permanent financial social assistance has a parent who takes care of his child with developmental disorders, which is why he cannot be employed justly. So a parent like that can't make money for his family. Also, there is a civil initiative with over 150,000 signatures requiring foster parents to equalise the status of children with 100% disability, i.e. to adopt a parent-steer law. For the adoption of one of these laws or for the introduction of provisions relating to parent status – fosterer to existing legislation, above all the Labour Act and the Social Protection Act, there are a number of legitimate reasons, from psychological, social and economic, because the life of children with special needs in the biological family is the most vulnerable solution. Only the family provides all forms of support and protection to their child in these cases. When it comes to economic reasons, it is also more appropriate for the state to keep these children in their families, not to be placed in social protection institutions, which are expensive, and there are not enough. To point out, this is a practice in the largest number of developed countries and the practices of many EU member states. With this in mind, I would like to ask Minister Djordjevic if there is any reflection on the adoption of a citizens' initiative on the adoption of a parent-steward law, which would equate the status and position of biological parents who themselves care for their children with special needs with the status of fosterers who receive material compensation from the state for taking care of these children. We believe that the state needs this important social issue to solve exactly the way it is proposed to the parents' initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54871	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54872	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking the Ministry of Culture and Information. A strategy to develop the culture of the Republic of Serbia for the 10-year period from 2017 to 2027, adopted by the Serbian Parliament at the end of 2017, sets strategic priorities for cultural development and systematically regulates public interest in the field of culture. In this same document and the development of local culture and art is supported through the so-called ". The national "Towns in Focus" programme, aimed at encouraging local development of culture and cultural infrastructure. This local environment support programme enriches cultural offer and raises the quality of content in a particular environment, improves and modernises cultural infrastructures, preserves cultural monuments, creates an ambience for creative expressions of artists and experts in general in cultural and cultural co-operation. The question would be – how many cities and municipalities have supported the ministry in the last two years and what are the effects of the projects implemented?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54873	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54874	Dear President, respected Serbian citizens, I ask my first question to the justice minister, and the issue is very simple – why did the state not process Dragan Gilas, who repeatedly, and what the citizens know in both Belgrade and Serbia, damage Belgrade's budget, as well as the budget of the Republic of Serbia? A string and a list of violations, abuse is a very long one, could possibly be published volumes of books on "How I Destroyed the budget of the city of Belgrade, How I Ruined the budget of the Republic of Serbia". There is an obvious abuse in the Big Brother affair in the pioneer town. It is very clear that his associates have been arrested and processed and who is the organizer of all this has not been processed. Why has it not been examined in detail that the city of Belgrade and the whole state of Serbia was at the threshold of bankruptcy, and that it was on the threshold of bankruptcy just thanks to Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, Dusan Petrovic, and that I do not list the rest of the team that worked for the destruction and destruction of the budget of both Belgrade and Sapac and all cities in Serbia, but also the budgets of the entire Serbian state? The second question, also to the Ministry of Justice – will the Law on the Investigation of Origin of Assets give instruments and state, but of course also give the truth to the citizens of Serbia about tycoons, on DOS rich people who are just in irregular, unfair and above all for the state of Serbia, citizens of Serbia, Serbia, a destructive way, and will this law finally bring truth to the citizens of Sapac, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of all other cities of Belgrade, Subotica, Novi Sad, etc.? When will Vuk Jeremic be called by the state authorities to answer the question how are his associates prosecuted for abuses and malfeasance and what is his share? To that very question, we owe our citizens the answer again. We simply speak for our citizens and people who think well of this state of Serbia. We owe answers to questions as to where Volku Jeremic, Dragan Gilas and all those who are now trying to force themselves to pay and buy power in Serbia, to kidnap her from Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, both from the SNS and the coalition? What's good, citizens won't pay for it. Next, a very important question, namely the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, why and how and in what way exactly in the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, can a commission be formed or any other form that will finally examine who has allowed and proposed it, we must disclose to the citizens and the people, who, for what personal reasons, has removed the problem of Kosovo from the UN Security Council to the EU and EULEX? Form a commission to support the fight that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is leading to Kosovo. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must do everything to ensure that once and for all, the truth comes out who is for what money, for which good, for whose interest, has just done something that no one normal or with a gram of brains would do, which is to transfer the talks and the situation on Kosovo from the UN Security Council, where we belong and where we are part, in the European Union and EULEX, where we cannot achieve those rights, and our rights are just Kosovo under the auspices and unification with Serbia? What I must finally ask the Justice Minister exactly why the law is not consistently applied when it comes to the application of criminal measures in cases of organised crime and the imposition of penalties, exactly the easiest penalties are imposed on those who have abused the official position and who have put their hands in the budget of Serbian citizens? Why and why not step up exactly the measures for abuse of positions and the spending of budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54875	I thank my colleague Birmanchevic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54876	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to refer the first question to the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Ruzic and Minister for European Integration, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic. We are interested in how are citizens of EU Member States living in Serbia allowed to vote in the European Parliament elections? We think it would be important for those living in Serbia to have the right to vote for the European Parliament to use their electoral right and we think that it is also in the interest of the Serbian state to do so, if for no other reason, and then, first of all, because of the fact that representatives of the Serbian national community living in Croatia get the votes they need and get positions in the European Parliament, so that the vote of the Serbian national minority living in Croatia is strengthened in the European Parliament. Not only because of this national issue, but primarily because of the democratic issue, encouraging citizens' participation in political life, strengthening the process of European integration in which the state of Serbia participates and raising awareness that participation in elections for the European Parliament is important and that the institution also has an importance for which we want it to affect our lives in the perspective. Another question I would like to refer to the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health and the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, as regards the events at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, so they would ask for information on what is actually going on there and as far as it came with the clarification of various events and circumstances for which MPs have been informed in several memos? It is that at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, the state audit institution carried out control and established a number of irregularities and illegalities in the course of 2017, that the budgetary inspection of the AP Vojvodina also carried out control and that, as a result of that control, it has filed a number of misdemeanours and criminal charges against the responsible persons of the university, that the Agency for the fight against corruption has also been filed because of the existence of suspicions in numerous cases of conflict of interest, trade in influence and abuse of official position. It's also alarming that one of the incriminating persons is the Dean of the Medical Faculty. The Anti-Corruption Agency, among other things, has initiated proceedings on suspicion that the law has been violated. Emergency inspection by an educational inspection was carried out, and for a long time there has been a problem with the constitution and election of members of the university's council, for which the university has told the appeal when the ministry has disputed the election. The ministry has reached a solution that refuses the appeal, so it is of interest whether and when will these things be resolved and when will the bodies of the Medical Faculty, after months of inability to establish their organs, when will these bodies at the university finally be established? Because here it is not only the teaching work that is at stake, but also the health care and health services that citizens receive, and in which the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad plays a very important role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54877	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the issue, I welcome yesterday's words by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia -- there is no compromise with the gray economy. Everyone has to have the same conditions on the market. So says the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. I strongly support that statement and do everything in our market to do so. Therefore, the question for the Government, for the Ministry of Telecommunications, for REM and other regulatory bodies that regulate and control electronic media, I refer to the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Advertising, to a law confirming the Convention on Cross-border Televisions of the Council of Europe, and here I show you that our viewers know, here are 80 large companies, brands, in the Republic of Serbia, which advertise, so-called. cross-border channels, I will say pirate channels, which take bread from home-registered channels by broadcasting ads, of course from Luxembourg and Ljubljana. I received a reply from the Slovenian electronic media sector, Tomaž Gorjanc, who says that in all the TV programmes I have listed, including Sports clubs, Fox, Fox Life, Universal, TLC, N1, only Slovenian ads are broadcast. Under the Law on Electronic Media, cross-border programmes must not be amended. I received a strange response from REM – that N1 television, as I was saying, is not registered in Serbia. So it's an unregistered medium that, if you sue, and there are, for example, in the Republic of Serbia, they don't respond because they're not listed in the register of electronic media in Serbia. This does not pay compensation for broadcasting paid by domestic channels, real domestic channels registered in the Republic of Serbia. That doesn't even pay SOKOJ's fee. They're not paying for anything, and they're broadcasting commercials, and they're endangering those who pay. It is reportedly cross-border channels that broadcast from Ljubljana, are registered in Luxembourg, and here, Slovenians argue that they consider these channels cross-border in Slovenia. So they broadcast a programme from Serbia and REM dared to say that the owners wrote that the programme is being broadcast from Luxembourg and that the programme is being broadcast from Ljubljana. I therefore ask the Ministry of Telecommunications and Regulatory Authorities to send an inspection to Luxembourg and Slovenia and to determine what kind of programme is being broadcast in these countries, i.e. whether the signal in Serbia is N1, sports clubs and 27 so on. fake cross-border, actually pirate channels, has it changed? It's work on black. If we're fighting work on black, the media should be the ones who carry that message strongly, not just the government. The government shows that message, the media needs to pass it on. How will the media support us in the fight against black labour, if the 27 channels themselves have pirated channels, if the pirate channels need, which are working on black, take that message to the public? So, I'm unhappy with the REM's response that says he's not in charge of cross-border channels. So, all televisions can go to Ljubljana now, repackage the program and say – we send the signal to Slovenia, so the signal goes back, we are not domestic media and we are not paying any compensation, when they can do these 27, allegedly, cross-border television, why not do so and all other domestic channels and broadcast the programme on black, because they suffer in black unfair competition because someone gives special discounts on advertising, because these ads have no right to broadcast cross-border television unless they are broadcast in countries where they come from, unless they broadcast them in Luxembourg, unless they are broadcast in Ljubljana because they claim to be registered there. All these media are gathered around SBB, School, Gilas and David Petreus. That is why the second requirement of the opposition – give us REM, because if the composition of REM changes and these machinations are established that are worth over 100m euros a year, at that point the Gilas team, Petreus, will be left without illegally acquired money, and we will make the market. That is why my question for the government, the Ministry of Telecommunications, REM and other regulatory bodies – what will they do to stop this work on black? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54879	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts from points 2 to 4 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 2 to 4 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the Criminal Court in Kruševec and a proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice in Piroth. Does the proposing representative, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54880	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is more of a technical matter that we are talking about today and we need to make a decision. Namely, the vast majority of the presidents of the courts of general jurisdiction and special jurisdiction and criminal courts ended the time they were elected to, during May and now in this period, between May 22nd and 29th. For this reason, the National Assembly must make a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Courts to those persons because it has passed, past time, as I have said, to which they have been elected, and in the meantime, competitions for the election of the President of the General and Special Jurisdictions have been called. The contests are over. Talks are under way with candidates for the presidents who have applied, so they will come before the assembly in one of the next periods of a proposal to elect new presidents of the general and special jurisdiction. When it comes to the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Krusevec, the president, or president, has resigned on a personal request, so it is simple, only to be determined by the National Assembly's decision to suspend her office as President of the Criminal Court. When it comes to the President of the Pirot General Court, he was elected a while ago to judge the Supreme Court in Piroth and for this reason must be suspended from his post as the President of the Court of Justice in Piroth and the Assembly must make such a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the General Court in Pirot. So it's about something that's foreseen by the Constitution and the law. This congregation just needs to make a decision about what I was talking about. So, on the termination of the office of the president of the primary courts and courts of special jurisdiction and the termination of the functions of these two Presidents of the Criminal Court in Kraševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Piroth. Thank you very much. Along the way, if I am absent from the O.R., the Committee member will be Nedjo Jovanovic, who will answer any questions, if there are any questions at all, some disagreements, misunderstandings, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54881	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a full three years of this assembly's call, we've had many times on the agenda proposals for the election or termination of the office of judges, and today we are for the first time able to really, within one item of the agenda, talk a little bit about this matter and a little bit more about the courts and the state of justice in Serbia. We have here today, as counterpart Petrovic said, formal points on the agenda. Nothing like this is formal, because it's not done properly. One hundred fourteen judges, the President of the General and Special Jurisdictions, will be decided by the National Assembly, will cease their office mainly, not mainly, but because of the end of the term of office they were elected to, and their term of office has expired from 4th to 24th, which is today, I think, in May of this year. We had one period, I guess, in 2010, when almost all the courts in Serbia were in V.D. condition. It really was an interesting period. The presidents of courts throughout Serbia or almost all over Serbia, and this was because they could be manipulated by making decisions, that these judges, possibly the presidents of courts who are in V.D., could be blackmailed in any way and proved to be indeed doing so. Now we have a different situation, now we're going to have some period without the President of the Courts, not even in V.D. condition, because when we find tomorrow or Tuesday, when it's voting day, when these functions stop, then those courts no longer have presidents. We are told here by the High Council that they have asked for this to be spoken by an urgent procedure, says – that conditions are created for the High Council of the Judiciary to propose candidates without delay for the election of the President of the General and Special Jurisdictions in the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with Article 74, etc. How was this supposed to be done? Today, at the same session, we had to talk about the termination of these 114 functions, and at the same time we had a proposal to discuss candidates for presidents in all these courts, whether they were basic courts, economic courts or criminal courts. The question is, since the National Assembly ends a regular session in two or three days, now that it is back on the agenda, will it wait for a regular session, will it be during some extraordinary session, and when will the High Council of the Judiciary ever send us a proposal to elect the president of these courts? This isn't good. This is not a good practice, and we hope it never happens again. This is irresponsible and irresponsible, and then we have a situation where every moment, when one of the authorities answers questions, if one journalist dares to ask, why someone is not being held accountable, why no criminal charges have been filed, why no one has been charged, etc., and every answer ends – please don't ask us, ask the judicial authorities, because they are a special branch of government, no one is affecting them, etc. It's certainly stories for small children, but we don't think, and we always said that, even in 2010 when she was a cleaning judge, and then we said that big, that we're convinced, and today we think that, the number of judges is waiting somewhere in some kind of peace that she found herself in a courtroom, some time when judges will actually be able to work by law, by their own conscience, and when there won't be influence, there's no attempt by the executive authority and not just by the executive authorities. You know, in courts around the Republic of Serbia, by local self-government, every single one of them there is a fisfir, whom the party has set up in some important place, can go and allow himself to go to the judge, to the president of the court, and to demand that he be judged in some case as he is sought, as he is, and if a judge dares to say that he is a judge, that he does not listen to such orders, then he will come under attack very quickly, and even the High Council of Justice. So, these pressures still exist, and those pressures really have to be eradicated. We have always called on judges to resist such pressures, by freely and courageously rejecting pressure and influence on decision-making, but in order to really do so, they must inform the public who blackmailed them, who ordered them, etc. We in the SRS always put ourselves at the disposal of helping such judges and protecting that independent branch of government from those who are trying to usurp it. Yesterday someone here said, yesterday or the day before, that we are expected to be seriously reformed by the judicial system and that this will finally be something very well done. We've been listening to this for 20 years. All justice ministers tried to do some, they always called it reforms, and nothing positive happened, so they did reform, reform reform reforms, etc. And it was all going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round Today, when the minister of justice was Mr. Selakovic, after Snezana Malovic, then he claimed that by his proposal he would correct all the mistakes of the reform proposed by Snezana Malovic as minister to the National Assembly. We really expected it to be done. But it's not like that. First, in order to seriously approach judicial reform, we need to restore the courts to general jurisdiction. We have been witnessing that since the time of the Association City Court, now these special courts for organised crime and war crimes, there has actually been no movement and no good and no positive attitude in the development of the functioning of the judicial system by forming these and such special courts. They're special court departments officially, but formally, but informally it's called special courts and special prosecutions. This has also started in this way, and later, by introducing a prosecutorial investigation, it has actually begun to introduce the Anglo-Saxon legal system into our European system, and it is most specifically that many examples can show that the tribunal of our judiciary has been done. They looked up to no less than the evil UN tribunal, which does not "p" than rights and justice in its years of work, but unfortunately, this path towards the EU, and it is shown here, is so bad that we have destroyed our not very good judiciary, because in Serbia, in recent history, that politics has always had an impact on courts, and it has always been known that this is not good, but what has happened since the formal and constitution and the laws have written that judges cannot be members of any political party, and then the parties have started to influence judges. That's very interesting. While formal judges could be members of political parties, but not officials, then somehow that influence felt less. I guess now everyone wants to get in touch with the parties in power, so we haven't forgotten that in 2010, when the re-election of judges was made, that all the judges were literally left without a judge's office and that in the office of the party and Dusan Petrovic, there was a list of judges who would be elected, and now we've read dozens or hundreds of names here, mentioned. I don't know from some reference officer in the farming community, he became a judge. Of course, that reference in the farming community has finished law school, and we respect that, but with such experience to come to the place of a judge of a court is indeed something that could only result in this situation in the judiciary as we do today. Then when this current government came to us, then they boasted of 670, it seems to me, the judges who remained unscheduled and we have no problem taking them out to the conference, part of it, not all 670, but part of it, and what they said are -- unscheduled judges and we are now helping them, we are fighting for their rights. They were returned by the Constitutional Court, but it was perfectly normal and completely legitimate, but it's not normal that nobody wants to admit that that's how it happened, and the rest is written down. It just can't go away. It can't be forgotten. Why are we even talking about this this way? Because we want it to stop with the hypocrite once. We also speak in general in some other political views, especially when it comes to the judiciary. It is the third branch of the government, it is an independent independent branch of the government, nothing is disputed, but then the authorities of the executive authority should behave, and I repeat more than these, to say, high-ranking officials much more internally affect those local cabadias, who, through the office of the president of the municipality, think they can think of anything that they can think of. To go back to what was said to be reformed. So we have to go back to the courts of general jurisdiction, the basic courts, more courts, the Supreme Court, who would only judge as in the second degree and in the most difficult cases in the third degree, something like that before. democratic reform and it was the best system of functioning. What do we have to return, too? We need every municipality, every headquarters of local self-government in Serbia must have a court. You're talking about even development, you're talking about investing in every corner of Serbia, etc., and you're closing courts, or you've accepted them, you haven't closed them, so you don't replicate for no reason, but you've accepted what you found with closed courts in a large number of small municipalities. A small municipality, shut down her court, shut down the cadastre, shut down the high school, close down the elementary school in half the village, and expect people to come back, live in such municipalities, in such places. Of course not. People can't go back to living somewhere where they don't have any conditions. By closing the court when it was current, I'll just remind you, you're not only then, or those before you, you didn't just leave the judges out of work, you're out of work with lawyers, witches, you're out of justice because the citizens couldn't get a neighbor, friends, etc. to go testify to them. For example, he lives in a village called Tutin, and he's going to testify in Novi Pazar. Vala won't. He won't lose his day, and let this neighbor see how he and the court can settle this dispute. Milija, our colleague, is not here now, every time she speaks, says she comes from Srlig, from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. It is a purpose of a beautiful municipality, but Srljig is a municipality that has no court, no notary. For example – Sršlig, a municipality in which the law cannot be applied, because the law says when the signatures are collected and the signatures for the elections are certified that these signatures must be certified by the notary. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He says if he doesn't have a notary, he can do it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who's confirming? In the end, the meat office. Now the second question is whether the system is better, and it is, especially when it comes to local elections, but it is not the topic of this area, but some others, perhaps Minister Ruzic can talk about it, but it has to go back to some normal frameworks, into some normal system, and it is also one of the kinds of resuscitation of these small municipalities, small local self-government. The problems with the functioning of the courts. Again, I want to point out that we would not be misunderstood, when we talk about bad judges, corrupt judges, judges who are in contact with lawyers, warlocks, etc. Then we don't think about most judges. On the contrary, we mean a small number of judges, but that small number of judges is clear and dressing. It's not a secret, you have a murder case, and then a good friend will advise you, say, go to that and that lawyer, he's connected to that and that judge, and that judge can make sure that he gets your case, and that judge's fine is five thousand euros a year, so if you don't go to jail for ten years, he sees how much you're gonna pay, and the rest of you go to jail. There's been a robbery. You'll also be instructed, go to that and that lawyer, he's involved with that and that judge. It's all the same story. The judge gets the case, and the prison's fine is reduced as well. These are problems that must be solved by really responding when something like this happens and when it is known to work in Serbia. Everyone will probably say now – that's not so, say the case, etc. That's what the D.A.'s office is for. The prosecution has an obligation, among other things, to listen to the National Assembly and the D.A.'s office must react, and when he hears something, to determine, to examine. We're yesterday that I haven't read that this Zagorka Dolovac received that asshole Brammertz, I forgot that we have Zagorka Dolovac as a state prosecutor. Is that woman showing up somewhere? Did he say anything? Is he doing something? No, but that's why she took a picture of what's the same as her, to explain to him how war crimes are being conducted in Serbia against Serbs, who allegedly committed war crimes somewhere against Muslims or Croats, and there is no telling how many proceedings in these neighbouring countries, how many proceedings were conducted, how many Muslims or Croats were convicted of the war crimes they committed against Serbs? She doesn't care about that. She snuck into her office there, 12, 13, 15, I don't know how many years. I remind you, that Nenad Canak brought her to this place, that the condition of the League, his then was to support the government of Boris Tadic, I no longer know who the prime minister was. The condition was for Zagorka Dolovac to be a state prosecutor. She's been in that place ever since. That would be good, it would be good if the function of the republican public prosecutor lasted so long, provided that he actually performed it. That would mean she has continuity, she's organized services and she's really doing what she's set up for. No, of course, she doesn't, she doesn't care about her, she doesn't seem to care about anyone in the country. When we talk here, when we started the amendment proposal to punish ourselves with a life sentence, anyone who says that genocide happened in Srebrenica, we were so little in the surprise of beginning to be seen by colleagues, but during the debate, more and more have understood how important it was, and again, it doesn't have to be a prison sentence for life, it can be a limited prison sentence, but the state doesn't want to deal with this so important for history, for the future of important things. As you were completely deaf about Vojislav Seselj's proposal seven, eight, maybe several months ago, when he asked the state to form an institute that would examine all the verdicts and work of the UN tribunal. So we have a lot to do in the area of justice. We're ready to engage actively, to help with both knowledge and experience, but don't ever make this job a joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54883	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Does anyone else want a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? If he wants to, please sign in. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54884	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was talking about this a few days ago. He says, Miodrag Majic, judge of the Court of Appeal, who, at the time of the strangest reform, has skipped the Supreme Court's deformity of the Serbian judiciary, and immediately went to the Court of Justice, although he had never resolved complaints in his court career before. The Court of Appeal mainly deals with complaints, as far as I know, although I'm not a professional lawyer, lawyer, or judge, but I believe that some regular trace of progress to go from the Court of First Instance to the Supreme Court, or earlier it was the District Court, so when you solve complaints, when you qualify, is that so, Mr. Jovanovic, once you have acquired some experience, then you go to the Court of Appeal, in some subsequent promotion, which mainly deals with complaints. So, the strange progress was during the famous reform of the judiciary, but I didn't know that the judge was so uneducated, he didn't even know the Constitution. Says the judge on his Twitter warrant -- how is it possible that an MP would say that the judge took the money for the verdict without any of the authorities still responding, what is it? No one is excited about corruption in the judiciary, it certainly turns me on, and everyone knows that it's unpunished to tell the worst lies here. So the judge advocated that my freedom of speech be denied, but the judge violated the Constitution. Article 103. The Constitution says - a MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the performance of his parliamentary function. The MP may not be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of his or her parliamentary function. Judge Majic, who participated in the release of the Gnjilan group of KLA terrorists, 11 of them, who deprived the lives of 80 non-Albanians and who tortured another 250, did not punish them, but would punish me for talking about it. We have anti-Serbian courts in Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina, The Hague, but here, we now have anti-Serbian courts in Belgrade. Nowhere is being tried for crimes against Serbs, Serbs are only guilty. Serbs are not allowed to be victims, even when courting courts in Serbia. So, the Gjilan group is freed. I ask all of us – were the Serbs victims? They are for me. For Mr Majic and he are not alike, he says – he is not beyond any doubt. It is not beyond any doubt, meaning that Serbs seem to have killed themselves, ethnically cleaned up about a million people, killed only in BiH by over 30,000 Serbs, on various other parts of the former SFRJ in war horrors killed tens of thousands of Serbs. Some are beastly tortured, but there is no judgment. Gotovina Markac, especially Gotovina, is interesting. So they blame even those who have already been convicted, even wrongly convicted, they bear the mark of the guilty, and those who have been unjustly released, such as Haradinaj, such as Gotovina, such as Markac, are innocent to the Belgrade public and Serbians. Doesn't mean they weren't convicted, they were innocent. As it means that those who have been released by Judge Majic, it does not mean that they are not guilty because they have been released in a very strange way. I said last time, it was a judge who, along with Hadji Omerovic and another judge, freed the Gjilan group, probably for money. Probably. The judge doesn't know the difference between likely. He says - he's lying. That I said the judge took the money. I said he was freed probably for money. I had in mind, and I don't know how much that's allowed, the Center for Judicial Research, the NGO founded by the judge, the judicial authority of the NGO. Let us fellow Members of the Parliaments also form a society of MPs or the National MPs' institute and, in peace, comment on court decisions and press the court, as they put pressure on the MPs of the people, have even held on so much so that they can order what I shall say. Your Honors, gentlemen of the Judges' Society, gentlemen of the VSS, you have conducted a trial against me in the First Basic Court, according to a stenogram from the National Assembly. I have been called three times to account for an opinion on the National Assembly, which coincides with Article 103. The Constitution. I was called three times by a stenogram from the National Assembly to be responsible for the opinions expressed in the National Assembly that were in line with Article 103. The Constitution. My colleague Atlagic was with me when the judge said it was written in the Constitution, but I disagree. And he continued to invite me to the trial. The Society of Judges, then this NGO – Center for Judicial Research. I hold their statement condemning the attack on Miodrag Majic, so-called. The attack, signed by Miodrag Majic. That's weird. Yeah, and we're setting up an institute, and I'm the president of that institute, and now that they've attacked me, I'm gonna write a statement for my own benefit and say, "Here's a conviction." Says the Human Rights House. Wait, it's not just Judge Majic, Hadziomerovic, they're not just human rights judges. The right to freedom, life and security. We have to ensure everyone, but that right is exercised through courts, not because the courts punish the violation of those rights. It's not the basic purpose of the court. It is to punish a crime. To punish crime, but also to prevent crime and crime, preventive action. That's not what happened. They're weird associations. Now I'm asking, did this Justice Research Center get the money? Here I say it is. Well, probably for the money. If I'm a judge and I make a verdict that suits someone, there's probably a donation. But let them choose the authorities to check it out. The judiciary is not divinely independent. That's what I was saying. It can't be independent of the law. These are people who should be subject to the laws, like all of us, to legal regulations. They think they're divinely independent. We can't say anything about them, and they can tell us anything. They can qualify us for the laws we make, to say in advance, that I don't know some death penalty for the perpetrators of the most difficult acts is not in accordance with what. And when he goes to the U.S. Embassy, he tries to ask the American ambassador Scott, do any more life sentences, which are prescribed by U.S. courts, does that violate human rights, etc.? Whether something that applies in America, even more stringent laws, should not apply in Serbia. What decisions do they make? This is the Gjilan group tried in 2013. If I can't comment on what happened in 2013, the injustice to release 11 KLA terrorists from Gjilan, if I can't, and to say that his mentors in 2001 and 2002 released 2,108 Albanian terrorists, that they released Brovina, the Mazreka brothers, Kurti. So wait, what am I doing here? He's got this organization where he and the lawyers are together. Let them call on a prosecutor, and let them settle it in a pub, and let them make judgments, and let them order as food. And almost, let's not spend any money on court proceedings. If we do not have the right to comment on the most serious crime against the Serb population, if we are to be anti-Serbian, such as the courts in The Hague, Sarajevo, Zagreb, Pristina and that we support such courts in Belgrade. Then what are we doing here? Let's buy some rags, if we're all going to work on American dictatorships and some of the others who took part in our territory and assigned someone else under the formula to take care of human rights, because we didn't take enough care of the human rights of the people of KIM. The pressure is now being put on the international recognition of a stolen area. If we all need to fit in, then let's go home, end parliament, let alone these judges. I was saying, they're not dangerous laws, our laws are good, far better than judges. They're dangerous judges who need to enforce the law. Honoring the judges. I know a Kosovo judge who is a tenant, after a 30-year career as a tenant in Stari Pazova, a tenant, so he has no NGO, he is not driven by expensive cars, which when he tried until the last day he could go to KIM. Judged with a gun in the table, which was absolutely insecure. And today he's a tenant. I know judges who don't know what they have. And that's why I'm asking the parliament to declare whether we are for the Majic judge or for the victims? Does the Centre for Human Rights or the House of Human Rights think that those 80 Serbs had no right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security? Did they only have the right to be killed and that no one should mention that crime? Thousands and thousands of Serb victims were killed, mutilated, and no one was punished for such crimes. Just because a court released someone doesn't mean he's innocent. He says – Risticevic called on the link between Judge Majic and Hadjiomerovic. What kind of lynch did I invite? What's a lynch? What's an insult, he says, insulted, what's an insult? What did I say if the Gjilan group was released or not? Is she freed or not, basic question? Was he in the council, was he or wasn't he? Has he progressed from the basic court immediately to the Court of Appeal, skipping the Supreme Court? Is it true or isn't it? So now that we're judges, we're divine beings, we're nothing, we're sacred cows, no one can say anything about us. I'm asking you, since constitutional amendments are being prepared, are we even going to vote for it? Is our judiciary, above all, judges, even more than half of them perhaps honorable people, but those who have made progress, we don't even know how, who decide about fate and society, about the fate of people, about punishing crime, can we let them go alone? Examples like this are examples of a goat guarding cabbage. So, on an honorary note, we believe that they will not abuse it. If they've abused me once, they'll use it another time. He says, how did Miodrag Majic get to the court and the Court of Appeal? That's what the press says. Do we have the right to read the press and comment on the press here? They say it was from July to DS and that he skipped out, he quickly caught the yellow hookup, and he's probably on the suggestion of new mentors from the embassy, even though the chair still had a minister from the government left it behind, etc. That's what the media says. I didn't make it up. Individuals are trying to relativize crimes even Vladimir Vukcevic talked about it, that our judiciary is relativating war crimes, war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic. Here, and it's from the press. The famous Humanitarian Law Fund, in connection with the verdict, says – the court has hidden part of the Gjilan Group's verdict. Let the NGOs or the anti-governments agree on what they're going to do to us. When they fight with each other, it comes out of some truth. So the humanitarian law fund is certainly not an organisation I support, Vukcevic too. Let Wolfevic tell me who he was chasing from the criminals over the sprawl victims? Whom did he prosecute and whom did the Belgrade court condemn for the crimes against the Serb population? I don't agree with the idea that he's the only one who's a Serb. So the verdict is approximately, in these courts, either you're a Serb or you're innocent. I can't agree with that option. You on the right, you know I don't change my mind. What I'm saying now, I've been saying in the 1990s. At the time, I was thought to be a traitor in some way, but now I'm turning out to be an ultra-nationalist just because I'm telling the truth. It says – a message to all experts, you better be quiet, Boljevic in the case of Majic, etc., the Society of Judges. I didn't put a thousand judges out of court in the famous reform. That's what someone else did. Today I defend the right of the judge to judge impartially, to judge by law, not to go to the American Embassy for their own opinion, and then to enter the courtroom, to make a decision, and now none of us can say anything, is my God, he has made a decision, the decision is not commented, the judge is not responsible for the verdict he has made. The judge is not responsible for me being tried by an anti-constitutional member of 103, saying there is another procedure, I have not received an invitation yet, says it is based on a video from the Assembly. The first time they wanted to judge me about opening the case, I went to court three times, based on a stenogram, a stenographic note, and now they're going to judge me based on video, I've heard so much. I'll probably get a subpoena very soon to be tried on the grounds that someone posted a video of my speech and the court seems to have opened proceedings, so I'm going to have to answer for an opinion, which is contrary to the Constitution, Article 103. When the judge makes a mistake, when the Constitution, Article 103, does not apply to the judge, Mr. Atlagic is my witness, says it in the Constitution, but I disagree with that, then nothing. When we say anything against them, it's our fault, then we put pressure on the judiciary, etc. What pressure? Well, the verdict was passed in 2013. What's my pressure now by commenting that the Gjilan group that was released is a crime committed under the tactics of taking a soul lightly? The witnesses themselves testified that the tactics of Albanian terrorists were easy to take a soul, which means torture, cutting off certain extremes, cutting off women's breasts and putting on, frying, burning, stripping for the abundance of blood, all very well described by the witness associates. If we can't comment on this right now, if this Gjilan group is freed from such a kind of responsibility, if crime isn't punished, whoever can prevent evil from punishing evil and not doing it, there's a saying, that new evil is going on. My question is -- will anyone else in parliament be clear and unequivocally saying that Serbian victims have the right to justice, to have the right to justice, because that is their human right? If we can't even talk about unpunished crimes against Serbs, I don't know what we're doing here. Who do we need to represent? I believe those in other Serbia have some motive. Look, Oliver Ivanovic was killed, I'm guessing they killed him, I'm guessing these guys killed him for not being punished. Those from the "Gnjilan Group", those from the "Drenic Group", those 2,108 Albanian terrorists, the one from Vezji, the one from Kurti, that Brovina who showed up a picture from Iraq and attributed the crime to Serbs. The judge's company kept quiet, the human rights house kept quiet. Everyone kept quiet, and that's done. So, if they're all released, so how did those Serbs get killed, what was in Klecka? Who's gonna answer? It's been released 2,108. Could any of them have killed Oliver Ivanovic? It probably is. It's the Serbs' fault right away. Well, those who killed several thousand Serbs could have killed Oliver Ivanovic, probably just killed by the terrorists our courts and other Serbia freed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54885	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the Committee on Ethnic Affairs of the Svekine National Congress, led by Mr Siao Huein, chairman of the Committee on Ethnic Affairs of the Svekine National Congress, the former chairman of the Permanent Committee of the National Congress of the City of Tianjin, who is staying for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Let's welcome our esteemed guests. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54886	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, given the very content of the proposal for personal solutions when it comes to the holders of judicial functions, it is logical that we will support such proposals, given that they are based on both the law and the needs of the functioning of the judicial system and especially the courts in the Republic of Serbia. I must begin to express something that seems very important to me, which is that when it comes to the President of the Courts as holders of judicial functions, given that a large number of the Presidents of the Courts are in office and are being appointed or appointed by the officers of the President of the Courts, that in this direction those who have the legal authority to appoint the officers of the President of the Courts, and then the High Council of Justice which decides on the election of the President of the Courts, or proposals for the President, must be very, very careful, very well founded, and that at the point of view of the profession, as well as the point of view of what is called the dignity or morality of any candidate who should be proposed as the holder of the judicial function. Why am I saying this? Because the president of the courts no doubt depends on the quality of the court's work. No doubt it depends on whether a judicial council will be formed to decide on important issues properly. Undoubtedly, it depends on how complaints will be resolved by citizens about the work of the judges and the court themselves. It is doubtless dependent and whether the items will be updated correctly, whether the inflow of the case will be resolved as necessary. These are all facts that cannot be doubted. That is why the President of the Court must have the highest degree of authority, but at the same time the highest degree of responsibility. That responsibility implies that always behind the judge he chose and placed in the larger one must stand his name and last name, which is why he placed the judge in the larger one in order to decide on the matter for which the judge was authorized. On the other hand, we need to be completely open and honest. The presidents of the courts, unfortunately, were not given the powers that had to be given to them in full capacity, so that exactly what I'm talking about, which is the highest degree of authority and then what's called professional potential, was expressed. In fact, we're burdened by one big problem. It's not the only problems my predecessors have been talking about. In any case, a certain conclusion can be drawn from them. A far greater problem affecting the state of Serbia when it comes to the judiciary is an unequal case law that creates legal uncertainty where citizens do not see themselves, how if they seek judicial protection, they will experience the same judicial protection. Whether they will experience it in a way that due to unequal court practice they will be discriminated against or experienced by what they will say – yes, I have legal certainty and this state has given me legal certainty. Between these two scales, we must bear in mind that one who is authorized to balance court practice, and that is the Supreme Court of Cassation, must be far, much, much more, much more, much more responsible to this problem than it has ever been. Why am I saying this? I am also saying this because the presidents of the courts are exempt from the authority to be both presidents of the case law. To be clear, court practice is the last link in the chain that depends on whether the correct verdict will come out of the court and if the majority makes a decision only the caselaw such a decision unless it is correct, legal, the missing one can return it and say – do some sort of review of your attitude and your decision and then do it right. Therefore, the President of case law must be the most authoritative, the most professional, the most responsible and the one with the highest degree of capacity or potential in any case, and that is the President of the Court. That's why we always choose the best for the presidents of the courts. If we choose them, then why aren't the presidents of the court even presidents of the case-law? It is an absolute absurd that someone who in any case, regardless of what I will never say anything bad about judges who decide in this way, to confide in someone who in any case cannot present this job as his own burden, in the way that citizens expect it to be, and citizens expect the decision to be, under one, legally, under two rules and under three, just, without it, the court's decision cannot, in practice, realize what citizens are asking of the state and the court, the availability of justice and legal certainty. What further, from what we have heard today, arises, is trust in the judiciary. Do Serbian citizens trust the judiciary? If we take into account the sampling of public opinion, the various types of polls and everything else, the judiciary is not on some big scale, in some high position when it comes to citizens' trust, but we cannot say that citizens have no confidence in the judiciary, because we must never, absolutely never generalise the problem. Generalization is very bad not only when it comes to the judiciary, but also health and education and everything else. Not all judges, judges who can be questioned in terms of their work. The vast majority of judges do their work responsibly, devotedly, legally and professionally. Those who don't, they don't belong in court, but dear fellow MPs, it's not just up to us, maybe even least of us. That depends on the judge and most of all on the judge. Why am I saying this? Because there's a big problem called so-called. false solidarity. What does false solidarity mean? This means that the judge who sees that his colleague is not working in a professional, responsible, dedicated and legal manner, is silent, does not launch an adequate procedure against that judge, and those proceedings that have been initiated, unfortunately, are few, and on the other hand, and those who are few are not put to an adequate penalty for that judge who is his job, let's just say in a pesorative manner, he has tarnished, which in some ways influences the loss of citizens' trust in the judiciary. There, also, the presidents of the courts have a huge responsibility, where they should not, in any case, because of the fact that it is a colleague, because it is someone who is a longtime judge, that it is a parameter that has the effect of being tolerated or tolerated by the president of the court. This is something that implies a zero degree of tolerance, because a judge in no way can make mistakes that will cost, under one, citizens, because they judge and bring themselves into the name of the people and bind themselves to the citizens, and two, thus destroying the reputation of the court and the judiciary in general. What we must point out when it comes to the choice of judges is the fact that a significant shift has been made in relation to some earlier periods. This shift implies that election processes are transparent in the case of judges and that there are criteria, i.e. rules under which judges and presidents of the courts are elected. Unfortunately, some of the recently held or conducted electoral processes for the highest courts in Serbia are somewhat denying us. Therefore, a serious question arises, my fellow Members of Parliament, should we, as MPs, assume a kind of responsibility that is very serious and say that these constitutional amendments ahead, which we will consider, which we will ultimately adopt, mean that we, as a assembly, or legislative authority, must be excluded from the whole process for electing judges? I'm absolutely against it. I'm in favour of us as MPs here not choosing judges. And that's not controversial. It is not disputed that they should be elected by the High Council of the Judiciary, and prosecutors by the State's Chief Prosecutor. But the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors have to answer to someone. They have to bear responsibility for what they're doing being subjected to some kind of surveillance. Who's going to do that kind of surveillance, let the citizens. Only citizens have the right to gain full insight into the work of everything that relates to both the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's binders. And by whom will the citizens realize this insight if not through the MPs of the legislative authority? It's not pressure on the courts. It's not an influence on the independence of judges. On the contrary, in this way we build trust in judges, because if we leave 10 people to decide the fate of Serbian citizens, then we are in a serious problem. Why am I talking to 10 people? That's what I said metaphorically. If these 10 people were just judges, and not representatives of the legislative authority, then they would create the consequences of the very dangerous ones that exist today, which are nepotism, which eats the judiciary, which means that the judge of his son, daughter, godfather, brother, whatever professional potential he has, will choose instead of the judge who has and how high professional potential, exceptional career, professional, professional success in business, quality of court decisions, urgency and everything else we get? We've got something that will destroy the judiciary and undermine the foundations of the state. We can't let that happen. Such constitutional amendments must not burden us. So we come to another question that requires an answer. Certainly, as a lawyer, and as a MP, I will never comment on court decisions, especially I will not comment on court decisions that are not judicial, I will not comment on judicial proceedings that are under way, I will not comment on judges who participate in these proceedings because I consider it inappropriate, I will in no case comment either positive or negative when it comes to the facts of which a court ruling may depend. That is why I think it is very important that we, as MPs and public officials, be very careful that in our discourse, and especially in public discourse, we do not reach for anything that could harm the prejudgation of innocence, under one, and two, so that the courts are burdened with the attitude of public officials. It's very dangerous. You don't need to go there in any way. Of course, that does not mean that our position on the judiciary that I am presenting today must be completely public, it must be completely transparent, because as MPs, we too have the right to express our view of the work of the courts, and hence the situation in the judiciary as a whole. What especially encouraged me to comment this way are various media speculations about very important court cases, especially criminal cases. So you'll see in the media that for the murder of a certain singer one proof was found, then another, and another, and another. Who found them? Did the D.A. say that? No, I don't. Did the court say that? No, I don't. I don't mind a reporter's research part of their work. This research of a newspaper structure should absolutely be present but should not affect in any case the work of courts and should not be so placed through the media, because it can in some way even reroute a public prosecutor's investigation and that would be bad. For this reason, we must make sure that in a political discourse we have and what responsibility we have for every spoken word when it comes to the judicial system, which does not mean, in any case, that our criticism, as a justifiable criticism, should not be brought out in public, should be as well. I need you to get it out in public. On the other hand, however, we expect the holders of the first judicial functions to decide in the same way when it comes to our work. Therefore, holders of public judicial functions are obliged to determine, within the framework of the profession, according to problems relating to courts and the judicial system. No judge can appear with comments for daily political purposes. As much as we are expected to respect the independence of the judiciary, to respect the independence and expertise of the judge, which I do honestly and absolutely, so much is expected that anyone, a lawyer, a judge, in the daily political, do not appear as someone who condemns anything that makes a legislative authority. Because we are, in any case, three branches, two branches that are as independent as this third one. If so, which was the avalanche of comments by a dear colleague, an avalanche of comments on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, when two days ago, the same proposal was adopted, introduced as a criminal penalty for life imprisonment and for the most serious crimes with the greatest degree of social danger, we abolished the possibility of parole. I am in favour of leading professional polemics and respecting the division of professions in this direction, respecting different thinking, and my fellow MPs from the SPS Group are fostering such a manner of respecting the opposite, or dialogue as a democratic dialogue, but if the profession imposes something in which it could participate, it could be participatory, it could sort of channel this way of making a proposal or draft law, then everything becomes hypocrisy and demagogy, because there is no longer a possibility of criticism for something you missed, and you could do, to correct, to reach some goal, which is in the interest of citizens and the protection of victims. I am convinced, my fellow Members, that we have done the right thing, both from the moral aspect and from the aspect of legality and the Constitution, that we have passed the law as it should, and that is my personal position, no matter how contrary he was to the rest of the professional public. In the end, I want to point out something that seems to me that lately we as MPs have to look at in the right way, and these are comments about the pressures on the courts. These are comments again used for daily political purposes, and it is said that the judiciary is directly subordinated to the ruling structure of the government, or directly subordinated to politics. Let's take some examples. Dear colleagues who deal in the profession, I hope, that if anything else is to deny me, if I make a mistake, and I hope I won't make a mistake, that we have recently had a large number of rulings which are precisely these daily political comments that are purely political marketing deny. Let's take an example, an example of a crime that's very dangerous, drug trafficking, or narcotics, the suspected Cosmajac, there's evidence, or let's say, on the grounds of doubt, even a reasonable suspicion, everything is handed over to the prosecution. The outcome of the acquittal procedure. Well, what's more important is to say apart from this and what kind of comment. Did politics lead to a liberating verdict, did Vukic and Dacic pass the acquittal? Well, they're not. Who brought it? He has brought in one who is authorized and competent, and these are judicial institutions. Well, then where's the political pressure on the judiciary? Then how can we come up with the idea that there's some kind of pressure? Well, it's not the only case, there's a lot more. I can even suspect that the evidence was extremely valid, that they were factually justified. Unfortunately, the citizens, who were expecting a verdict that implies that the vindictor was always punished for the misdemeanor he had committed, were what it was. At the very end, Mr. Chairman, I thank you for putting me up to date for this time surplus, the SPS parliamentary group will support these proposals. We will fight for the integrity of the judicial system to the extent that we are fighting for the state, and we will follow this course that is being conducted today, so that the country on its healthy feet in the further path of reform and the EU's convergence achieves the goals that we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54887	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54888	Thank you, Your Honor. Here today, on the agenda, we have proposals for decisions relating to judicial functions. I will in my own way contribute to this debate in principle. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will allow me to briefly return to the not-so-far past, more precisely in 2003, because we need to remember how the judges came to office, and how these judges were being replaced. Then the legislative, executive and judicial authorities were in conflict with each other, and for what? Because those who were in the executive power wanted to abuse and use the legislative authority to put the justice system absolutely under the control of politicians and politicians. You know, it's terrible when someone uses, when they abuse the country's state of emergency, that from the post of acting president of Serbia, they use a political position to resolve judges, to change judicial laws, to pressure judges of the Supreme Court to resign. The leaders of the judiciary were replaced to prevent illegal judicial reform by their stand and their arguments. They tried to make everything subject to political influences, blackmails and manipulations, which were mainly from one party at the time. Unfortunately, and in years after 2003, the judiciary continued to suffer. He continued to suffer pressures, malfeasances, consequences of breaking the law. In 2008, laws were passed that actually directly followed the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In 2008, laws were passed that directly violated the provisions of the Constitution, which represented actually the DS front, to make an unremembered cleanup among judges, which was ever recorded in Serbia. In doing so, it was all done under the rule of judicial reform, all done under the protection of good intentions, that our judicial system would be better for God and that our judiciary would be more quality, and more efficient. This reform was actually implemented with one single goal, which is to put the judicial authority under direct control of the DS. That's why there are more than 700 judges, you can say banished, thrown out into the street without any explanation, without any sense of guilt, which then spit on their biography, their reputation, their honor, their dignity, their experience and their work. The consequences of the worst reform of the judiciary, which has ever been implemented, of course, have also been reflected in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The abolition of more than 700 decisions on not re-election of judges, the return of those judges, damages to reputation and honor, suffering fears and shame, for lost earnings cost our country more than 30m euros. On the other hand, the newly elected judges were DS activists, who, even if they wanted to, probably didn't know much about justice, and they didn't know much that they were suing and making such decisions. At that time, they were logically grateful to the party who proposed them, leaders, senior DS officials, were loyal, were naturally subject to their influences in making decisions, so they were not governed by laws, not by knowledge, but by party instructions. In this way, they first led to uneven court practice, whose consequences we are correcting today. The items in which they were unprofessionally, unprofessionally and very often ordered to judge, have caused new costs for our budget, and citizens, of course, are neither guilty nor debtors, mainly suffering consequences. In this infamous reform of the judiciary, only important influential individuals and DS committees were. You know, when one of the presidents of the Assembly's Committee on Justice, in doing so, is a prominent DS member in Nis, when the same man is in charge of coordinating the election of the High Council of Justice, and later becomes a member of the Visa Council of the judiciary, in order to select judges from the DS ranks, he is more than a clear abuse of office. So now we're in the field, that is, between 2008 and 2009. Another example of how judges were then elected is the DS Committee in Vlasotinc. The document submitted by the judge's company shows clearly how the established lists of judges and based on recommendations, in fact by the local board of DS, and that, even considering the membership of the spouses, it was characterized as a plus or minus, and then at the next level, it was those who were just sympathisers, and it was those who provided only legal aid to foreigners. The document exists, the list exists, signed by the then chairman of the DS municipal board and the president of the Municipality of Vlasotince, to place even DS seals on the list and the seal of the municipality. That's what you say about candidates. Candidates for judges, says this on the list – a sympathiser, a DS member, ten years ago provides legal assistance to DS. That's a big plus. Ambitious, deserves to progress, interested in a judge in Nis, undeniable. It's so nice that they could choose functions, since they've already been put on those lists. We have another candidate for the judge. He says, the President of the Court until 2000, a member of the DS, a long-standing, uncontested, and a positive opinion is given that he may be a judge, but you also have candidates who are characterized as tough enemies of the DS, precisely because of the shift. In 1996, he said, as president of the council, sentenceing election theft in Vlasotinc, before retirement, it does not matter that man struggles to gain the office of judge, undeniably negative. The candidates for public prosecutors were also disputable. He says this - fair, hardworking, on the side viewed as unsuspecting. Whatever that means on the side of an observed unsuspecting, long-standing DS sympathiser, but he rejected all criminal charges against the officials of the municipal board of DS Vlasotince. That means, on the other hand, unsuspected, and in fact, he rejected criminal charges against DS members. A son of a member deserves attention and a chance to advance, interested in a deputy special court or a major prosecutor. We have another candidate. Deputy district attorney since the founding of the party's sympathiser. Safe voice, fair, unsuspecting, usable, undeniable for the deputy attorney general in Leskovec. So their candidates were useful to those functions that they assigned to them on those lists. It's good, so they said they weren't corrupt. This document, the Society's letter also confirmed that during the re-election of judges and prosecutors, the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors used the data supplied to them by the Security and Information Agency. The citizen's protector at the time Sasa Jankovic, of course in her report on whether there was a secret police who was checking out the candidates for judges, expressed his opinion and said that in fact, the BIA had not supplied any data, but was denied by Snezana Malovic, then the minister of justice, so she stated in her statement that the High Judiciary Council had requested data from the prosecution for some cases and that these data had just been obtained from the police and the BIA. Apparently, they didn't agree to at least agree their statements when they were already protecting, actually destroying the judicial system for putting it under DS's paw. In 2010, we all know that almost all courts were in V.D. the state which further allowed manipulations, political influences, blackmails, malfeasances, through which DS actually came to the same judgments as it wanted through judges, i.e. the President of courts who are in V.D. The condition was at the head of the courts. Today we are struggling with the remains of such personnel who are using their positions again to take part – we are presenting expert opinions, attacking the government, and even the MPs who have declared themselves to vote for the proposed solutions. So we have the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Miodrag Majic. If we look at his career advancement, we'll see that his career is very similar to the personnel I was just talking about. From the prosecutor's office, he comes to the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, so that after the Friday-October revolution, what? Progressed. In 2008, the call of a doctor of science gained an impression, and to be stronger, the defence of his dissertation was also attended by Snezana Malovic, this great reformer of the Serbian judiciary and then the minister of justice. In the famous cutting of judges, the insinuator of the DS, this current judge, the current judge of the Court of Appeals, has actually made progress and has been directly elected to the Court of Appeal and to the Department of War Crimes. So, the conclusion is that at that time someone who did not have a day's internship in the District Court, or now the Supreme Court, that someone who did not make a single decision in the appeal procedure, skipped a number of candidates who then met the conditions and reached directly to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. Speaking of which, in 2013 it will remain remembered for the shameful judgment of the public, when both the profession and not the professional part of the public were unfavourable, and the citizens were disappointed in the already-wrought judiciary and had already had their trust in the judiciary which was the way it was in the previous years, so before 2013. Judge Majic was a direct decision-making actor allowing 11 members of the criminal group of the Gjilan Liberation Army to be released. In 1999, they committed a crime -- a war crime against the civilian population when, we will remember, 80 people were killed and 260 were captured. The charge involved torture, rape, physical injury, murder and property robbery. The atrocities are committed towards Serbs and other non-Albanian populations. While we are still in the field of the biography of Judge Majic, who is otherwise public, so we can talk about her, he is the chairman of the Management Board of an NGO, more specifically the Centre for Judicial Research. The question arises, the compatibility of the judge's office and the membership of the association, and if we question both independence and impartiality in the decision-making process, why do we make a mistake? So it is a matter of impartiality in making decisions. What if the case in which he has to be tried finds a lawyer on any side who is with him in that association, or in that NGO. Of course, it's also about independence, because none of us know who's funding this NGO. The provisions of the law on judges are clear on this point. The judge cannot be a member of the political party or act politically otherwise. To deal with any public or private paid work, neither to provide legal services, nor to provide legal advice with compensation. Other services, jobs and procedures that are contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge or damage to the reputation of the court are not associated with the judicial office. Whether we will be guilty as the MPs we comment on, in fact independence or impartiality of one Court of Appeal, who, on the other hand, wanted to put pressure on the MPs, commented on how we would vote for some draft laws in the voting day. In addition, he allowed himself to host on TV as a judge. So, from the point of view of the judge, he commented on the cases and gave an opinion. And not only that, he criticised the tightening of criminal policy, the introduction of life imprisonment for the most monstrous crimes. Of course, everyone has a right to their own opinion. Whether it's an expert opinion or not, everyone has the right to give their opinion. But is it allowed for a judge to comment on a television show on such a bill, or life imprisonment for the most disgusting crimes? With what right does one judge in the show criticise MPs who will vote for certain draft laws in the voting day? Does this mean that this puts pressure on the MPs and the National Assembly in general? So, let's get this straight. This wasn't about some public debate. This wasn't about a debate on justice issues. We can't even say that, in fact, this particular situation is about dialogue as a basis for democratic society. This was about hosting the current Court of Appeal on television and commenting on certain things, putting pressure on the National Assembly. Of course, media machinery has now been launched that will make a great sacrifice from Judge Majic, in which Aleksandar Martinovic and Maja Gojkovic will actually be on call. Why? Let me remind you. Because they mentioned him at the National Assembly. Aleksandar Martinovic only asked him to explain why he considers it an inhuman act of voting by the MPs for such a bill, as he himself commented that it would be inhuman, etc. So Aleksandar Martinovic just asked him a simple question. Maja Gojkovic didn't even ask him anything. Maja Gojkovic said only after Martinovic's presentation that she didn't actually know that he was the current judge of the Court of Appeal and that she actually thought he was visiting as a representative of an NGO on the show. I see nothing bad about Martinovic or Maja Gojkovic's comment. But that's why we have the media. That's why we have a media machine that will make Judge Majic a victim. So the daily list "Today" describes it in the following way – insults that the ruling party's MPs have oversold Judge Majic, questioning his professional integrity, and the next sentence says - a call for a lynch and an attempt to silence this judge, etc. What does that mean? Does this mean that anyone who wishes can ask the MPs what they want, can criticise the MPs, can criticise their work in parliament or outside parliament, can press the MPs how to vote for certain drafts of the law, but when we ask the question, it is immediately a lynch and immediately this media machinery of these people makes great sacrifices that we have asked from here, for God's sakes, something. Secondly, no one is trying to discredit Judge Majic by talking about his biography. His biography is available to the public, there is one on the Internet, and there is no reason not to talk about it at the National Assembly session. Now, if that's what those who write these texts think, that his biography is really discrediting him, then that's their problem, that's not our problem. Our problem wasn't whose biography. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I would just like to say -- these are all the assets of the Democratic Party. It's these blatant frames that think they're God-given judges, who think they're god-given to be on someone's list and express their wish for what function they want. It's these guys who think they're stronger than the law, who think they're stronger than justice, who put pressure on it when it's in their interest. It takes a lot of time for our judiciary to get back on track, to recover from these reforms and personnel. But the Serbian Progressive Party, eventually, took responsibility for the judicial system as well, and I am sure we will work to ensure that all procedures and procedures comply with the law and are implemented in accordance with the law. Our judiciary has no more time, no more power, to be subject to political influences, and I want never again what happened in 2008 and 2009, under the auspices of the Democratic Party in our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54889	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from the point. of 2-4 points of the agenda, Article 96(1), indent 4) and Article 98(1) and (2) Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. First of all, the People's MP Jahja Fehratovic has the word. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54890	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have witnessed these days of orchestrated campaigns by some media and various NGOs against Aleksandar Martinovic, the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's MP, Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, National MP Marijan Risticevic and, of course, Aleksandr Vukic, who is the on-call target of these same, as it is, of course, an attack on the independence of the judiciary, the attack on the integrity of the judicial authority, the endangerment of freedom of expression, violation of ethical standards and who know what further instructions are in their statements. See what it looks like, a daily paper that has long ceased to be a newspaper in the right sense of that word rather than already represents a political pamphlet of a party, or a group of political parties, you guess, it's a daily newspaper "Today", which has been dealing with this topic for days. There we can read a statement from some CEPRIS, it's an NGO, but we'll say about that later, how unacceptable attacks by the authorities on Judge Majic are. That judge Majic is their main political figure now. In the same "Today" this Majic also answered, so he says - the minister was my intern, so he knows if I'm professional. I don't know how he's not ashamed to speak in this way and belittle Minister Nelu Kuburovic? The same Majic says in the same "Today", visiting a certain tribune, because, you know, he's in the political stands, he's hosting political shows, he's commenting on daily political events, he's got his blog, so he's a blogger in his spare time, so he says -- we don't have judicial authority in Serbia. That's what he claims. The judge claims we don't have judicial authority? "Today" also gave him the column – a person of the day, where he also continued orchestrated attacks on the mentioned ones. I have to make a deep dissension with these attitudes, primarily because it's not all true. The only sin of Aleksandar Martinovic is that, as a national MP, in the discussion of Tijana's law, he referred to these diabolical and deluded comments by Majic and called them the real name. He called them "a hypocrite and false humanism" because they are. Whoever had the opportunity to look at this political show, a show that largely includes all three of the same-minded, on various political issues, he could agree with such Martinovic's allegations. Now I ask, what was Alexander Martinovic wrong? What's wrong with what he said? Does Majic, as a judge, dare fool around on the television show to comment on the work of the National Assembly and the MPs, and the MPs cannot say anything about him, not even to ask any questions? What did Maja Gojkovic say incorrectly, so the object of the attack these days? That she said she was an "instinct" that Majic was a member of an NGO? He is, and not only a member, but also the chairman of the board of directors of the NGO CEPRIS. It's some kind of justice research center. So let's see, so that's information from their website, so it's nobody's opinion. Center for Judicial Research Miodrag Majic – Chairman of the Management Board and then his biography. Now watch out, this Justice Research Centre has otherwise agreed with a statement condemning the divine attacks on Miodrag Majic. So, Miodrag Majic as chairman of the Management Board of his NGO makes a statement defending who? My dear Majic. Or, perhaps it hurt him that Marijan Risticevic, a fellow MP, asked a question - did Majic, in time, get money for one of the most recent convictions ever? The most scandalous judgments ever made when it was released so-called. "The Gjilan Group", which we've heard about. Personally, I think he's the most affected by the fact that he's part of a wider campaign. The campaign was directed against Serbia's president, Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government, the SNS and the campaign have various responsibilities. So some pretend that they're independent journalists, some pretend they're politicians, some pretend they're independent intellectuals, some act, today's not the case, but they're headed by some kind of so-called. "independent institutions" such as that of the Citizens' Protector, the former, like that of the public information trustee, the former, and apparently there are some in that group who pretend to be judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54891	I thank my colleague Markovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have not yet established a society of MPs, we have not yet established the National MPs' institute that we too may be unpunished, or that we can quietly criticise the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people of all the mistakes of the courts, and they are possible and random and intentional, sees as a mistake by the authorities. They think that we as the National Assembly are responsible for courts in the sense that we can talk about the judgments they make, that we can talk about their work. We don't have those powers. The prosecution is independent, the judiciary is independent. The judiciary is independent of this authority, but let's all ask ourselves, is the judiciary independent of the former government? Did one party rule out the court of its own party when it eliminated a thousand judges? Mr. Atlagic will tell you about it when they chose a dead judge just because he was partylike. Was it the court of the people or did those who knew what they had done, how many robberies they had committed, how much money they made out of the privatisation, and at the estimate of Financial Integration, they made 51 billion dollars by 2011? Did they provide themselves with the court, the court of their own party? I think they did it in 2009 and 2010, to get unpunished from a major robbery, from a major robbery not only of property, but also robbery of the personal incomes of those who were fired, even those who have become underpaid because of the heavy layoff. To get out of that big robbery, they wanted to establish, they wanted and tried and partially managed to establish the court of their party. Today, if you wish to condemn the former officials who have robbed the people, who have kidnapped everything that was social, who along with the tycoons and the bankruptcy managers have competed who will kidnap and transfer more property to various world accounts, Maldives, to the Kukov Islands have arrived with their accounts where they invested money. What they stole caused new poverty, that money they took took out and took it out of the optics in the country. They didn't spend it here, they spent it outside. It was the extra effect of that robbery they committed. It was best for them to choose their party buddies and their relatives nicely. They're full of sons-in-laws, sister-in-laws, former officials and former judicial chiefs in our justice system. Today they call for the punishment of the Messengers of the people. Today they call upon that the laws are not good, for my God, in their day some of the laws were so good that no one was responsible for anything. The court needs to apply the laws. The court should punish the guilty and protect the innocent. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and you who watch this transmission often did not punish their court guilty, but protected the innocent, but vice versa. He often punished the innocent and protected the guilty. That's where so many drug dealers. Hence so many crimes that have occurred, which have been punished very mildly or not at all. Hence, privatisation and tycoons are not punished. From there, Gilas has 500m euros without anyone knowing how he gained them with a salary of 1000 euros. We often talk about the products of crime that occurred since the 1990s, when various tycoons smuggled into enormous wealth that they increased after the fall of Slobodan Milosevic. We often ask ourselves – why is it not punished? It is not punished because those who have done so, the court of their party, those who have delegated the courts, did not punish. One of these examples is Judge Majic. He just did what, here I'll resign if he proves he wasn't at the US Embassy, here we ask Judge Majic if he was at the US Embassy, did he go to congratulate them on their independence in the name of an independent Serbian judiciary? Here, I say he was happy to go to the American embassy. Hence, the court of their party made decisions and the worst, and today the court of their party protects their officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54893	I thank my colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54894	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Milicevic, honourable MPs, respected citizens, we are considering judges here today. These proposed judges, it's about good candidates and very good evaluations of candidates. What is important is that the High Council Commission of the Judiciary has done its job in the way that the law has been overlooked, namely that candidates meet all the criteria and criteria for evaluation, and in particular expertise, competence and dignity. When I say so, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have in mind a party of the former regime, and these are those who are gathered together in the alliance for the second robbery of Serbia. First they robbed while they were in DOS, and now they're acting in the cities of Serbia's traveling circus, not taking care of criteria for the election of judges. To them, party membership was more important and important than expertise, training and dignity. For their DS, the judiciary in Serbia was the worst in Europe. That's not just me. It was also an assessment of European institutions. The judiciary was then moved from unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges to unbalanced crimes. I will remind you, gentlemen of the MPs and respected citizens, 800 judges have been expelled from the judiciary, among them by the most professional judges in the Republic of Serbia, among the five most professional judges, one of the judges has been expelled, left without a job. It's about frames, and there's a lot more pearls. I'll mention he's an assistant minister of justice, imagine, an assistant minister of justice, and he had a high school. That was their shot. And it's no wonder our judiciary is still in this situation today, especially at the time. Our judiciary was rocking during their rule as a building prone to fall. Some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide. The former regime's power in the election of judges has made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary. I repeat, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia have made one of the biggest scandals in Serbia's history by choosing a dead judge. They chose the dead judge, the late Ljubiš Ristic from Požega as judge. Believe it or not, but it is true that the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, then Mrs Nata Mesarovic, said, quote – that all candidates have been checked and that she spent 200 hours with judges for talks. It's a finished quote. Dear citizens, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how she could talk to the deceased, to the dead judge, and how much time did she spend on him? You, gentlemen of the former regime, have chosen as judge, when I speak of the staff, Sonja Brkic, who has dangerously violated the Law on Judges, because, at the same time, believe it or not, she has served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the Republic Election Commission. And, look at the wonders, the Law of Judges specifically forbidded it. She took in RIK, not to mention alienated, two million and 673,000 dinars. Look at the wonders, she refused to pay back that money. So to conclude, the former regime did not adhere to the expertise, did not adhere to the dignity of the characteristics required at that time for judges. In the European Commission's report, it is written, quote -- the government's reforms, then in Serbia, are of particular concern. It's a finished quote. From the book "Court Reform in Serbia" in 2008-2012, page 96. The European Commission continues to say, I quote, the judges' re-election process, e, we are in the field, was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence. It's a finished quote. The European Commission, often said by the former regime's party, quotes the government's reforms as the worst possible thing. It's a finished quote. Posted by “Politics” 07.07. in Lord 2012, page 1. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honored Citizens, today we were talking about Judge Miodrag Majic. What do you say about that? At the time of the reform I was now talking about, carried out by representatives of the former regime's party, from the basic court, according to counterpart Risticevic, skipped to the Court of Appeal. That tells us right now something's wrong. It's either a genius or a mule. Imagine, he participated in the release of a "gnjilan group", 11 Shipatarian terrorists, who killed over 80 Serbs and other non-Albanians. Now, that's the problem. An open story among Albanians in Kosovo's Mitrovica is that it is a huge amount of money. She's absolutely right, Marijan Risticevic, when he says he's suspicious, because it's said to be a large sum of money. Justice Research Center, imagine the NGO he founded and chaired. Let us, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, accordingly establish an NGO of former Members of the People and current MPs, and we cannot do what we want. He's signing his own press release. You heard him on TV saying, not only is he talking, but he was even telling the truth, that there was no public debate on the amendment proposal and the additions of the Law on Public Procedure. And the House of Human Rights called. Right now, let me say that maybe this is our fault, because we really need to pass a law on NGOs, and then it wouldn't happen like it's going to happen today, just today, right now, that a man who was a minister of defense, destroyed our army, brought down the fire company, let tanks and cannons in Jelizara melt, believe it or not, get a special award for security and democracy, and it's about Dragan Sutanovac, in a people of the famous grabper. Now, this is the NGO that NATO formed for you, and NATO representatives share their NATO duster with special recognition. Now, you see, in the election of judges, this judge has been elected without a single day of work, Mr. Majic, who is here. Imagine, the Court of Appeals judge, and he never worked on complaints, he didn't write or decide on complaints. Well, that's how the court was. Mr Selakovic's arrival changes the situation, and so does Mrs Kuburovic. It's gonna take a lot of time for a lot of things to change. However, patience is needed, and it should indeed be done honestly and we should not partyly choose a judge, as they have done so far. He's not the only Mr. Majic to release the KLA criminals. That's what his mentors did. Who were his mentors? And that's what the DOS gentlemen did, who freed 2,108 terrorists, including Brovina, the Mazreka brothers, etc. Let me once again say that there is really talk in Kosovo's Mitrovica among Albanians about this Gjilan group. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is said among Albanians that there is an open suspicion that big money has been taken. Finally, let me say that my smallness, as well as other MPs from the SNS and our coalition partners, will vote for the proposed list, because this is really what you saw from your biography, about judges with rich biography, with rich experience, especially with the President of courts who have both dignity and expertise and honesty in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54895	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the look here is about a formal decision, and we today need to decide on the termination of office of the Presidents of 114 courts of general and special jurisdiction. The reform of the judiciary started in Serbia in 2008 and ended in 2010, formally the time period. It has started since the DOS's arrival in power, and the election of the president of the courts, according to counterpart Vjerica Radeta, from the farming cooperatives. The saying of Valtazar Bogisic is known. The coat of arms is not right. It's a waste of trying everything now, and we can't do this job well and do it all the way. My goal is to point out, fellow MPs, that there is a very serious job and a serious task in front of us and we of our judiciary, as the third independent branch of government, on our own, should be saved from the tribunal. Whether we succeed depends on our will and strength. There's one judge who's usually a favorite of NGOs, but one thing he said, which I'd like to mention here. He says – if the Swiss judge were brought to Serbia he would get worse than ours very quickly, and if our judge went to Switzerland, he would very quickly rise to the level that is there. What do I want to say with this sentence? I would like to say that as MPs, we should create a legal framework for impartiality and independence in the judiciary. Unbiased means that the judge who does not see whether or not he is familiar with the party is trying to judge under the Constitution, the law and other regulations, who is independent of one whom no one can influence. Is there any impact on the judges? Of course there is. He's had it before, he's got it now. It's much less than it used to be. What kind of influence can they be? It can be a direct influence. He's a lot less in the bang, because it's also recognizable as a crime. It can be an indirect influence. It's more common in practice. It's very often difficult to prove that it was, and then we can't fight it effectively. Very often some European Commissions, some Venice Commissions require, I would say to the citizens of Serbia, there is no greater sovereignty than Serbian citizens, some changes, some reconciliations, and few who are involved in studying how judges are elected in other European and world countries with so-called. developed democracy. It is evident that Serbia's rich is the most free choice of the judiciary. You know, in Austria, a federal president chooses judges. Imagine if it were in Serbia. We want to be kidnapped and the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. I disagree with counterpart Neđa Jovanovic, who says the choice of judges from the National Assembly should be removed. There are excellent lawyers in the National Assembly, there are lawyers, there are people who were ministers in the justice ministries, there are lawyers who deal with other affairs and there are other MPs from all over Serbia. Can anyone better know the work of the court, know these judges than we do of the messengers of the people? Some combination we have now may be a good solution. I must remind you that someone who was the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, once it was the Supreme Court of Serbia, then the Supreme Cassation, so the holder of the office of the High Council of the judiciary, Mrs Nata Mesarovic, said - we received a verdict. When she was due to deliver a verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic, she said - we got the verdict. I guess what's really true is faster than thinking about her and it's not her only sin. Her son Vladimir Mesarovic was elected, without meeting the conditions, to judge the High Court at that time in the special department and now not to talk about his abuses later, that is another issue. Here's another judge, also a favorite of NGOs, the NGOs have entered the Serbian judiciary to a large extent. We have to fight it, give them back their independence. He says the following – it is quite true that there are a large number of unprofessional, unconscious, possibly corrupt judges in the judicial system. If there were, there would be. When we speak criticism, I speak for the MPs of the SRS, we do not generalise the position. The highest number is, we assume, honest and good, professional judges, but of course there are others. Now the choice of these judges leads to it. There's an objective problem. In five years, the Justice Act has changed 12 times. It says that... Then this judge is kind of right because we can't identify, and the problem is in the system. Those who write to us, or propose laws, do not seem to harmonize life, need, and what should be judges. They don't do it that way. If we were under some influence by the executive authority, or most of us, don't mind, colleague, but now I will make an argument, never, never, never say, a long-standing MP, there are those who have a much longer internship than me, it has not happened that the MPs of any bill, from any authority, return it to the Government, don't adopt it. I am absolutely certain that there have been many reasons for some law in the field of justice not to be accepted here. If we had done that, then we would have made it clear to the justice system and said that it was our desire for judges to judge under the Constitution, the law and other regulations, and this is not how it happens. Someone also mentioned the selection of the deceased as the judge of the primary court in Požega, and that's true. In order to remove it from Požega now, it is in some way a lie for the people who live there, the judge of the General Court in Požega is under a regular number 53, which ends in office on 27 May. It's one of the best, not the only, but the best president of the courts. That's the president of the court who was elected in the last century. For the first time in 1997, six assembly assemblies elected him as the president of the court. That court doesn't have old cases. It's not just the President of the Court. That's the thing and the judge who's there. So there are no old items, they have almost daily updates. We used to have a huge problem with the fact that court decisions haven't been written in a few months. In this court almost the same day, when a decision is made, it will be written and sent away. The first court introduced the EDCL license and trained to get passports for it. They're doing good. It's not the only court. There's a lot of them. No one has ever given us an answer – how much money and money has the Serbian state paid to those who were not elected judges in 2010 or 2009? Some 670 were not elected, 542 sued the state and some amounts were up to 35,000 euros individually. Some of those former judges worked as lawyers for a while and were re-elected as judges. It is also a big problem that we still resent to you now – have you ever done an analysis of that network of courts, whether it is good, and there are practical reasons, whether it is good financial, whether it is cost-effective, that and those small townships in Serbia, which are not few, have their own basic courts. This may be funny to someone, but that in an indirect way affects the development of agriculture in these municipalities. One village from the municipality where I come from, which is 40 kilometers away, so the main court in Loznica, in it is not only that justice is slow, it is for that citizen and far away in every season, not to speak especially in the winter period. We have to do this thing, do an analysis of what travel costs are from one place to another. The judge from Love goes to Loznica in the morning, then returns to Love at eight or ten o'clock to judge in the court unit. I don't think that's right and there's something to be done. I don't know if anyone in this day can respond – on 24 October 2017, an integrated judiciary of the Republic of Serbia has been implemented in the Kosovo system, people who are supposed to exercise their right to court has been waiting for two years, and some don't even know where the cases are. These items or most of these items have been transferred to Leskovac. Now the question is, is there any? Apparently, as I said, this is just a decision to discharge judges, but for many of these, it's 40 years of work in the judiciary, 40 years of successful work, the education of many young fellow judges who later came, so these people deserve one respect and this analysis that was allowed to all colleagues. I hope that some of the answers I have set and the dilemmas will be given, i.e. we will get answers, but I ask you to seriously conduct an analysis and defend this judicial system against European influences and abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54897	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54898	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from these discussions in the principle debate on these decisions that we remembered, that there were many negative things in the years behind us, many bad things that had serious consequences for both our judicial system and our budget and our country's status in general. When I hear criticism about the SNS, which is now in power, I only remember what the judiciary looked like in 2008 and 2009, what was done, blackmail, malfeasance, the pressures of which. All who were in the DS were candidates for some state functions and were, according to counterpart Risticevic, protected as sacred cows. No one should have told them anything. You see only the man who was a prominent member of the DS, who was the chairman of the Assembly's Justice Committee of this National Assembly where we are sitting now, who co-ordinated the election of the High Council of the judiciary, who entered to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary with the intention of choosing judges from the DS ranks and after we find a similarity in Judge Majic's biography, then we are from here, for God's sake, who knows what we said and who knows how we insulted him. In 2009, he skipped the district court, or senior court, and went directly to the Court of Appeal without even a day of work, a trial in appeal proceedings. He skipped a lot of candidates who met the requirements, but that's how it was done in 2009. You were either similar or inappropriate then, DS member or non-member DS, sympathiser or non-simpatizer, so if you're just a sympathiser, maybe your husband or wife are members, so you'll get one plus to be on the list of their candidates, and then we attack ourselves here making similarities between biographys. We don't discredit anyone. Their biographies and their actions discredit them. It's not perfect today, and it's true, and I agree with that, and it can't be perfect, but if anything, at least it's seen that the SNS is really working, that we're trying to change things, that we're trying to at least try to reduce the consequences of these catastrophic reforms to the least possible and as much as possible. When we are honored that we have not prosecuted anyone or that no one is being prosecuted by all those people, through Gilas to all those people we list here from session to session, I can tell you – in 2013 an MP in the National Assembly was stripped of immunity due to suspicion of the existence of a crime. Our people, when I say our people, I mean the members of the SNS, I mean the officials proposed by the SNS, they're not protected by how they were then protected members of the DS. You've got the Grocke case, you've got the Požega case. I worked as a lawyer in 2009, and I know very well what this reform of the judiciary looked like, don't think that Nis did not make lists of similar and inappropriate, don't think that there were no lists of candidates for judges in Nis, for those who would be promoted, for those who would be fired, for those who were first elected to judicial functions, etc. The thing that bothers me the most is the courage, that pride, that means putting pressure on any branch of government. We are honored to put pressure on the judges, that judges are under the influence of SNS politicians. So far, not in the media, not in any other way, I've heard anyone say -- this SNS man and that judge made that judgment happen, and that was the case while the DS was in power, and we need to remember that. I have not heard that anyone has said: this and that messenger of the people has influenced this judge and the judge to reach a verdict of a certain substance. On the other hand, it turns out that anyone can say whatever they want against the MPs. We can't ask anything from here. We can't say anything, and then at one point, using the media, the story of how we actually attacked the man turns out to be. He says in the daily "Today", I have to read this to you again because this is such a lie – an insult to which the ruling party's MPs have cast down Judge Majic. What have I done to offend him today? What did his colleague Martinovic insult him with? What did Maja Gojkovic insult him with? By asking why the judge is hosting, the current judge of the Court of Appeal is hosting TV shows and criticising the MPs who will vote for a life sentence for rapists and child murderers. That's how we insulted him? It was presented as a lynch and as an attempt to keep even this judge quiet. I really hope, and I will end with this, that we will never get back to the time of the famous "judicial system reform" as it happened at the time of DS government, because we actually have to go ahead and we have no more time to lose and we need to make our judicial system so that it can be accessible to citizens and that citizens can trust in the justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54899	Thank you, colleagues. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54900	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic that we are talking about today and which is drastically aimed at reforming the judiciary in the right direction and for the judiciary as one of the three main pillars of government and state leadership to be at the highest possible level of interest, of course, citizens, businesses and the whole state, is very significant, but very significant not only from this legal aspect. I am not a lawyer, and of course I will not take the right to talk about these aspects of judicial reform, since I have not actively participated in any, I can say as someone who deals with politics, as someone who is as a MP interested in the democratic system in our country, and the economic system, operating in the best possible way. That is why I would also like to refer to the discussions of my previous speakers when it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which the National Assembly voted on a few days ago and specifically for all that is happening in the media, in the professional public, when it comes to debate in parliament on the positions of some NGOs, some judges, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. We have now come into one situation, I can say for the first time that I see in one country, and there are no such examples in the environment, that I am not talking about the EU, that in some way they are trying to compromise the rights of MPs. I would also like to remind my fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that only the MPs and president of the Republic have the mandate given to them by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, voting in favour of the lists and political parties that have delegated them as representatives of those lists. So we have this greatest and supreme democratic capacity and the Constitution guarantees us that we can speak freely in both this Parliament and outside this Parliament, whatever we want and whatever we want. We can express our political views, our views on economic policy, social policy, cultural policy, everything. Is anyone going to agree with that, and that is the essence of democracy and what is the fundamental, fundamental aspect of democratic dialogue, that we can talk and that everyone has the right to say what they think and what they think they should support. This time, we have a shameless attack on MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who has offended the profession, insulted the active judge Majic, insulted the NGO sector by expressing his opinion here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by expressing his opinion on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and by supporting the support of most of the MPs, as far as I can see, fellow Martinovic, 159 people. So, undivided support. Most of the opposition, most of the people sit here, most of them support it. They supported for one reason why we don't work here by any directive. The fact that someone's been making arguments, I'm not going into legal aspects right now and to the legal extent of it. Of course, everyone has the right to take it out. But we are not sitting here in this House that anyone from the European Commission, the European Council or any other institution anywhere in this House dictates what we are going to do, vote. We judge what is in the interest of our citizens and our people. The tusts and the darkness have taken place on Martinovic, Maja Gojkovic, Marijan Risticevic, because they expressed their opinion. By the way, I want to remind some colleagues, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, may not know, I think that Marijan Risticevic is the only national MP in Europe against whom the procedure is being conducted in, I think, the First Basic Court, because of a verbal delinity, because of what he said here in parliament. So we have examples like that. Now every day we have the appearance of those who are now criticizing both us here and most of the opposition. Why? How could we say something about this professional, expert, how we have this moral right, where do we get this capacity to touch that circle of two to Belgrade, those sacred cows, the NGO sector? How do we have the right to say our opinions, to run the country in a way that protects our national interests, what we're going to develop economy, what we're going to build roads, what we're going to build infrastructure? We've completely replaced the thesis here. Every day we talk about the need for freedom of speech, the rule of law, the freedom of the media. Yes, they are very, very important aspects of the functioning of a democratic society, but isn't it the most significant human right, the civil law, the right to express your own opinion and the freedom to express your own opinion? If we here as representatives of the majority disagree with some attitudes and some positions of anyone, so be they representatives or judicial or executive authorities, should we be crucified for that? I just want to say that we will continue to work for our country. We will continue to work for our children and we will continue to work so that there will never be cases in our country again, and we do not have to be in a position to change the laws and to have Tijana's law on the agenda, Alexa's law. We must fight very actively, as we do, against violence against children, against everything we want to prevent through what we have done and the vote for amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. We want to influence this and be active so that there is absolutely no violence among children themselves. What the Americans would say - fight against that so-called. Bulling. It's a very, very important thing. Although someone thinks they're going to stop us, he's wrong, because he thinks it's only him and that only some people in this country have the exclusive right to be NGOs, to be judges, to be ministers, to be MPs, to be politicians. Every time you analyze this situation a little better, behind every human rights struggle for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, behind every struggle for any economic success stands some money, there stands some luxuriant interest and stands some benefit for their NGO, some project that they got from someone on the side that should be realised, and we here have ruined their plan. We are absolutely not going to take care of it here, nor are we going to court anyone, nor are we going to make a hypothesis out of the democracy and the ambience that we want to make, and which is and implies freedom of speech, so that people in this country can say what I want. I see in some media, whether it's printed media, whether it's electronic media, so some, especially those who promote the opposition, and it's okay, they should promote, it's not a dispute. We're a democratic society. They promote some people who don't even have 0.1% support. And now they have found it appropriate to criticise, of course, what they are entitled to or to attack those who have gained the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in fair, democratic and free elections. You know what, that's nowhere to be found. Look at developed countries, imagine now that New York Times, or Washington Post, or Germany, allegemajne Caytug has every day the views of a party that has not crossed the censorship or that has the support of a percentage of the statistical error of 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.5%. Either some protests or something that means three, five or seven people who come in there, what they do, they probably play cards or chess in front of the presidency. It's more like, they're actually like people sitting outside the store, you know, drinking beer, except these people don't have room and place in the media, they do. They have places in the media, they draw targets, they draw cartoons, they show us in all kinds of ugly ways. But to finish my speech by us continuing our work, continuing our policy, we will be in solidarity with our colleagues whoever attacks them this way. I find this brutal, I find it embarrassing. There is nothing Aleksandar Martinovic is no worse, no better, no better than me, no more than Dragana Barisic, no more than Milorad Mircic, no more than anyone in this room. And we should be amongst ourselves the majority or the opposition should be solid. We are here, and to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, chosen by the votes of that people. We represent this people and we need to be protected from those who, behold, can, every day, in every way, bend us, and no one can pay attention to that. Not to spread the story now about how many times it's happened in the past. Well, to that same man, here's the day they're talking about it, I think they're writing in these opposition media and portals, he's being led to them that he's still the chairman of the board of directors of the Privatisation Agency. They can't take that away, right, aren't you in 2013, but that's how it goes with them. That's their truth and that's their policy model, that's their "trues", and that's what they want to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I point to this as someone actively involved in politics, who wants to point to both his colleagues and his citizens for this kind of behavioral anomaly. This is more to me, not because people show their own, research shows their own, it is known who the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are, it is known who and what kind of policy they support, but we have to talk, we have to stop these phenomena simply on the road, and come clean with the truth. There is one difference, and that will end, between us and them, the Honorable Chairman, that is, and the main difference is that we have a face and we want well for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we want to build their paths, schools, kindergartens. We want us to be socially responsible, and in their tents, umbrellas, let them imagine, let them write, let them talk about it on Twitter, and let them set the conditions. I'll quote Professor Micunovic, he said the other day in an interview, in fact, summed up everything that's been going on in the past few months, given the behaviour of this one of ours, the actions of the very opposition, he says – what we are doing, as an opposition, these opposition leaders are setting conditions that no one will ever meet. The man who's from the opposition, who's an institution, who's a university professor, said everything. Thank you, Honorable Chairman, and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54901	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Verica Radeta pointed out problems related to the election of the President of the Courts, and in the past the Presidents of the Courts were elected in a way that was not in line with neither the Constitution nor the laws governing the judicial system, the choice of judges, prosecutors etc. Those who would like to remove from the National Assembly the choice of judges and prosecutors make a mistake. I believe that you know well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that judges make judgments in the name of the people, and the representative of the people is the National Assembly, the legislative highest authority of power. Therefore, no one in this land will judge on the basis of any other oran, but in the name of the National Assembly, and judgments are passed. On whose behalf do NGOs feel that they will bring judgments to future judges? Only in the name of the people. As a member of the SRS, I think it is a shame that this procedure and this regulatory election of judges and the president of parliament have been removed. We had a far better and orderly judiciary, while judges and prosecutors were elected for four or eight years. However, some judges, with all due respect to the judges, feel that they have been chosen for life and that they can make decisions as they see fit. Those judges are looking for independence. Now, when it comes to independence, we have to remind ourselves that the judge is independent of making a decision but only on the basis of the Constitution and under the law. The judge is not authorized to make illegal decisions. When it comes to the independence of judges and prosecutors, especially judicial functions that make decisions, their responsibility for illegal decisions is raised. Who do they answer to? The law on judges and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia sanctioned violations of the law by judges. Do we have any example of a judge being sentenced to prison for an illegal decision? Not only the prison sentences, but the question should be asked, gentlemen of the High Council of Justice, how many have you had for the last five years of disciplinary charges against judges? A representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Supreme Cassation Court last year said 780 disciplinary applications were filed against the judges and 14 were taken into the procedure. However, seven disciplinary sanctions have been imposed. Now, you see what the difference is, and does he have responsibilities and does anyone exercise control over the work of the courts? When it comes to the presidents of the courts, they must be people of credibility, they must be the most professional people, they must be people who have the best average confirmed decisions, they must be judges and people of reputation, and they must be able to manage the authorities for which they are elected. The judiciary and Serbia's judicial system for ten years will not be able to eliminate the harmful consequences the DOS regime has inflicted on the judiciary in judicial authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 146, the judicial office is permanent, and that in 2010 despite the constitutional provision on the continuity of judges and judicial functions, the re-election of judges of all judges in Serbia was carried out? Have you, ladies and gentlemen, been aware that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has declared that the unconstitutional Law on re-election of judges is in accordance with the Constitution? That the High Council of the judiciary, which decided on re-election and the election of new judges, was drawn up against the Constitution, specifically against Article 153. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia position 1 and 3? I mean, this is the most important thing. What consequences did Nata Mesarovic leave the Supreme Court then and those who elected judges and who resolved judges? As part of the High Council of the Judiciary, we have much more precise formulations, there was Nata Mesarović, the Zumbul DOS, the representative of the High Court of Cassation, gentlemen, but not the representative of the Supreme Cassation Court, as it was then written in the Constitution, but she was the President of the Supreme Court, not the Supreme Cassation Court. To correct the obvious mistake and injustice, then the DOS authorities are electing Nata Mesarovic overnight to head the Supreme Cassation Court, to cover this mess they have allowed themselves. The problem is that the Supreme Cassation Court did not exist at the time. In accordance with Article 143. The Constitution, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, elects the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and in the light of the general session of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out some more very important problems regarding the judiciary. Our judiciary has experienced the Americanization the DOS introduced. What does that mean? A hybrid mixture of traditional continental law and legal system with an Anglo-Saxon legal system, a savage from the Wild West. Here's how they judge. Zika is suing Mika to owe him 10,000 euros and complaining to the defendant and asking what to do. "So did you lend it to him? “ It says: “Yes. ” "So did you give it back to him? If you haven't returned it, find two witnesses to say you've returned it and you'll be released from your duties. “ The fundamental difference between Anglo-Saxon law and civilised European continental law is that in Anglo-Saxon law the truth is not proved to be solid evidence, but proved to be false witnesses. In these countries where the Anglo-Saxon legal system is applied, it can also be tried for what has not happened, nor has there been and that someone may actually be convicted. It is known that continental European law is present in many countries and other continents, and above all: Africa, Asia, China, South Korea, Japan, Philippines, Indonesia, as well as in the largest part of Latin America. That is why it is a big problem that Serbia has allowed itself to mix this hybrid and introduce itself into our legal system. Serbia is a modern legal state, Serbia has the excellent judiciary it had before, and in 10 years it will have to acquire it when it removes the harmful consequences of the DOS regime, but the greatest damage is sustained by our Code of Criminal Procedure, which is actually a hybrid of the US legal system, so in the opinion of the SRS, it is absolutely unacceptable and should raise hands from Americanization and return to continental civil society and law. What I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to draw attention to some weaknesses in our legal system. What are the problems with the justice of the Republic of Serbia? In the first place, the intricacies of those who choose. Mrs. Verica pointed out that there were cases that the lawyer who worked in the farming community, not one day in the judiciary, chose as president of the court. You had Mrs. Malovic who had not had the age of how many judges in the Supreme or District Court had years, i.e. judicial functions. As long as it is such, unfortunately, Serbia will have major problems. What's going on is that the indictments we've been told by public prosecutors are identical to the judgments of the courts, 85% in Serbia, and 85% in Serbia, you have identical convictions with the prosecution's indictments. What's also a problem is that the major damage to this kind of reform that DOS has begun, and you gentlemen have to remove it from the current government, that is, fashion -- we send from Belgrade prosecutors to Prepolje, imagine, and it costs a year and a half of five million from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which he received on various grounds. Or do you have cases like this to send judges and prosecutors to other seats of public prosecutors and senior courts and economic courts, and since the introduction of this to date, it has cost more than five billion dinars of the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have, ladies and gentlemen, in our judiciary and such cases, unfortunately, that one prosecutor in the primary prosecutor's office filed 835 indictments and indictments and that the court had to release them for lack of evidence, and that was the case at the General Court in Panchev, when it was filed against citizens on the political basis of 835 indictments, and that the court had to release 540 cases, but therefore the budget of the Republic of Serbia cost 95 million dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of running certain processes, here, I would like to point out a negative - bankruptcy mafia. The bankruptcy mafia, which has been accused of multiple persons, some have been released, and some have suffered absolute obsolescence of criminal prosecution, but therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the guilt of the judges and prosecutors in Serbia's budget has caused damage to 280 million dinars. To be clear, should we introduce both disciplinary and criminal, even the material responsibility of independent legal holders who often because of their ignorance or because of their intention to free someone from harming the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and this enormous damage that is truly worth billions of dinars? How is it now that a judge in the Supreme Court in Belgrade, according to cases, has 78% of cases, which have been suspended by the High Court? Can he be more judges? In my opinion, I was a federal minister of justice, I was a deputy minister of justice in the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Verica was a deputy minister of justice, I worked 40 years as a lawyer, something like this can no longer be tolerated. Gentlemen of the government, you must cut off such tourist costs as are imposed on Serbia. And let's call the experts you're sending from Belgrade to other cities and other courts, please don't consider them to be bigger experts than there are experts in higher courts, basic courts, basic prosecutions and senior prosecutors. If we understood more things, which I'd like to point out. Is there corruption in the Serbian judiciary? I must say, unfortunately, and this is what some judges as court-holders made public, that there is corruption in the Serbian judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to make an example out of the Pancian judiciary. 34 criminal charges have been filed against the lawyer Predrag Basaric. According to reports I own, they can hand them over to the chairman, it says 21 criminal charges were filed according to one report, officially certified by prosecutors and by the president of the court. The second report says eight criminal charges have been filed. The third report said five were filed, and that's where the judges are called. Now, it's important that the judges who pardoned this zoombul's 34 criminal charges, and can these judges today perform judicial office? I don't think so. This didn't happen by accident. This case is not from 1945 to today in Europe. Find me an example that he's against one lawyer, and the lawyer is an honorary profession, but the lawyer must not have any criminals amongst his ranks. So these judges are the apprentices of that lawyer. And what is most important – all these criminal charges have been rejected or obsolete. This is an example on which I freely base my suspicion that there is corruption in the Serbian judiciary. Are legal decisions being made? I'll only list two cases. Professor Veroljub Rajovic has an object where the value of his dispute is about 40,000 euros. Besaric Jovo, with more than 30,000 euros, where both the first-degree and second-degree courts made illegal decisions, is now expected to make a fair decision through the revision and the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out something, if you'll allow me, as far as the organisation and territorial jurisdiction of the courts are concerned, an injustice has been done. Mr. Martinovic, you can see this, to return the basic court of Kovin, because it was unfoundedly transferred to Smederevo. This is the only case where we have such a complex situation and that citizens go 50 km to Smederevo to exercise their right. And what Mrs. Verica said, every municipality should have a court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54903	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the motions for decisions delivered by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Today, we are discussing another important thing about direct relations with the holders of judicial functions, as well as the relationship between individuals belonging to that part of our society and our system, their relationship with other people. In particular, the hajka and the haranga. Hajka and Haranga, which has been organised these days because of parliamentary presentations, because of what is here, in this hall, was said during the debate on changes to the Criminal Code, Hijk and Haranga against, firstly, the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic, then Aleksandar Martinovic, Marijan Risticevic. In the background of these brutal attacks, of course, it always has to be found, the rule is already and is well known to everyone, Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party in general. Which is why and how the media hawks of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak have been moved, anyone who has been called on to say the most difficult word that comes to mind these people these days. Let's go back to that day and that debate and see what they've reacted so deeply to. Here's a few sentences from that debate, how it all started. It has been said that we are facing a phenomenon that is unrecorded in a civilized and democratic world. One part of the Serbian judiciary keeps coming to us, as MPs, critics that MPs, and especially the executive power, and especially the minister of justice, are putting some terrible pressure on the judiciary. And we, indeed, have, many times, concretely, shown the evidence that it is not true at all. We have repeatedly called upon all those who claim to say good, clear and precise, by name and last name, and who put pressure on them, in what way, to give evidence? And we never got them. And then, we faced a completely reverse situation. One judge mentioned in the debate by Mr Risticevic, Judge Majic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, gave himself the right to press the National Assembly, we talked only a few days back about this relationship, pressure on MPs and the Minister of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia because, as we announced then, we will how much tomorrow to vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which we are introducing a life sentence for those who, with a deadly consequence, rape a child, a pregnant woman, an powerless person. That judge Majic said it was inhumane what the National Assembly would do. And he has also shown courage and insolence to say that it is inhumane that the MPs will introduce a life sentence for someone who rapes a three-year-old child, because that bully, maniac and murderer, and all this is otherwise true, is taken away from him every hope that one day he will be found at large. What was not clear to anyone from what was said? Does anyone think that any of the people who were in this room during the full debate and during voting day don't agree with this stuff? About the relationship to this law and the case which was the reason that the "Tijana Juric" initiative came in the form of a prepared law here, we have all declared ourselves, gentlemen who watched this and who responded to these words, we have spoken. As far as we're concerned, yes, those terrorisms, when they're put on one side of such a misdemeanor, this kind of atrocities, and on the other hand, whether it's going to be a nice life, and they're going to live, the man who committed this kind of atrocities, is well aware of which side he weighs. So, we've said in our own vote which side we stand on. And we from the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, and these are the words of the president of our parliamentary group, and other people who make up the parliamentary majority, but not just us, the opposition that was present at both the debate and the vote, the SRS parliamentary group must have made it clear by its vote that they are referring to this dilemma because it is no dilemma. There were other MPs who were not part of the parliamentary majority, he is not currently in the hall but should be said, there was Mr Ševarlic and he voted for us to adopt the changes, and Vukadinovic. I have no doubt that they treat this issue the same way as we, who advocated it during the debate in the O.R. I don't know, I guess it's the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party, I don't know if they think the same thing we, once seemed to think, have not seen them in the debate, I haven't seen them in the vote, I can only ask, but as far as we're concerned, there's no doubt about it. Another thing about an unacceptable relationship with the National Assembly, I think we all agree absolutely about it, whoever was speaking here today from every MP's group said that something like that is out of the question and that it's mean and hypocritical to switch to us whenever we say that we disagree that something is wrong, to raise a high finger and a voice and say, this is unacceptable pressure. National MPs, the Serbian government, ministers are making unacceptable pressures, all of them pushing Aleksandar Vukic to exert unacceptable and illegal pressure. And when a judge gives himself the right to pressure him and the People's Assembly and the Messengers of the people on a matter like this, what is it? It's European civilized, and then it's supposed to jump both jalapeña and crow, which is an internet cyber ninja warriors, which I don't know. But much more interesting and much more important of these media squadrons, I'm all Go Solak and I'm all Go Gilas, to bring down people who have the courage to say no, so it won't be possible, we're talking about the rule of law and we're talking about relations with institutions, we're talking about some values, European or whatever you want. Well, this isn't any of it. And to be clear, bravely, yes, it won't work that way. Not a day has passed, they're on their way. Here is the title – "Risticevic called on the link between Judge Majic and Hadjiomerovic," imagine the link. On the lynch, by saying that in one case they had tried, or had acted, as they had acted. N1 source. Is that how it was, Mr. Ristichevich? Border, off-limits with re-emitation, re-emission across Ljubljana, up to. Yeah, they do. Inappropriate assessments of personality and expertise, attacks, this is Beta, criticism of the authorities, but we defend the profession. That's what Majic said. N1 again, borderline, off-limits. Martinovic called the judge a smart guy, impertinent and hypocritical, and now it needs to be condemned, a little bit more Beta, but there are again those who are re-emitting. A message to all experts would be better off keeping your mouth shut. So, a terrible silence, by saying that someone is exerting unacceptable pressure, and it calls for some respect for the system and, of course, for freedom of speech. Among others, after all these, he took Judge Majic himself to defend Judge Majic. And that's what we talked about today, and here's a statement from the Justice Research Centre, which is usually an NGO. An NGO where the judge is both a media personality and a blogger and an actress and I don't know what not. The chairman of the board of directors, this is from their website. So this organization that's called CEPRIS is gathering, so this is what you see when you go to get a little bit of information on their website. Slobodan Beljanski, as president of CEPRIS, is probably the most important, so the first one is listed here and there is a picture of him, and then the second Dr. Miodrag Jovanovic, vice president and board member, and in third place, Miodrag Majic, chairman of the Management Board. There are others, well, former Supreme Court Presidents, this is what Mr. Peric and all sorts of others spoke about today, but this organization, the NGO where the Chairman of the Management Board is Majic, is known to our public for its work, by its own means, I will tell you openly, obviously, the planing work that is with the task. I can't remember one occasion, that they made a statement, I don't count on it when Majic says it's terrible what someone said, it's about criticism at the expense of Majic, and you, Mr Marinkovic, were quite right, it's about self-proclaimed sacred cows, that we understand each other. What's the problem here, what someone said, we're standing on that and that position in the matter of amendments and additions to the Criminal Code? What's the problem with us saying unacceptable pressure on the assembly and MPs is out of the question. Only one thing is the problem, which was specifically involved with one name and name, specifically this Majic. That's why all this. Yes, they are self-proclaimed sacred cows that through CEPRIS, I don't know if they had one activity, without being directed at the most insidious criticism of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government and the Ministry, and our system in total. So there's no initiative that they didn't find themselves on the opposite side, from what we're saying, on the contrary to what's the elemental interest of the state, and that's what we're going to point to today, it's not that problem, not one, there's a lot of that example. They say it's their expert opinion and their right to an expert opinion. There's no such thing as a profession. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and citizens of Serbia who are watching this, pure propaganda, where it is seen that there is an intention, where it is seen that there is a goal, so where there is clearly naked that there is no principle, that no universal standard is valid. How else am I to interpret this set of people, to people without principles who clearly have a clear definition of intent and by all means act in the direction of achieving it, not respecting the rules, nor the laws, nor the standards. Here, second in rank, Miodrag Jovanovic. He is a regular professor of the Faculty of Law who is widely printed pamphlets with his statements, as Aleksandar Vukic violates Serbia's Constitution, as he violates all laws. This is political action, this is a political attitude towards Alexander Vukic and the SNS. This man, of course, is one of the participants of the initiative that once again, because three times it's not enough for them, three commissions don't know anything, we're dealing with the problem of Minister Malloy's doctorate. This is usually a man who, in his own words, is very interested in principled reasons for this question, who I have never seen come out on the subject of these principles and sincere desires, of course, that he deals with academic honesty. In connection with this first one on the ranking list, because this first, Slobodan Beljanski, he was illegally doctored by law, and this second by rank, he is very interested in academic honesty and in the question of the quality of the doctorate of legality, but he doesn't mind being immediately under this first, which he illegally doctored in 2001, and now there is a complete history of the case, which he had no elemental right to, did not satisfy the elementary conditions, so he falsely represented himself as a doctor of science, ask God for how long, so that the court would eventually have to resolve the situation. Now, these others, highly moral and high-principal, with such sitting together and sharing that morale and those principles that are directed against the SNS minister, against Alexander Vukic, literally everything that comes to your mind, and that it may have anything to do with us. I remember this Beljanski from the case two and a half years ago. The man was brutally lying, accusing a parliamentary board of this National Assembly that, watch out for this, forging a declaration, falsifying a declaration that he pushed people from the European Parliament one version in English, and here for domestic use he threw the other one out in Serbian, which is a complete nonsensus, absolutely impossible. But the man gave himself the right to do it then, then along with the ombdusman, Sasha Jankovic, to attack us, to rock us. You know what's the worst and the scariest? Not what he or they have a bad opinion about us and wants to harm us, but what directly harms the Republic of Serbia and our institutions, which they never hesitated for a second to do potential damage to the National Assembly, they played with its credibility, when they placed things like this, and all lies, as liars lied every time and were caught in lies. Now, this team gathered today to be their board president as a judge who looks like a sacred cow, so no one can say a word when he does something that's not good, and he's done a lot of things. A man writes a book, there's nothing controversial about it. I watch what he does in them and in books and in his writings that he publishes on his blogs, roles, I don't know what it's called anymore. There are some fantastic stories, and as he wants to say professional, analysis, and all of this has been so mixed up, that today when you look at the text that he signed, and in which everything is worst and darkest, he talks about the Republic of Serbia, some imaginary pressures, which today's government, as he claims to judge and prosecutor, then defends itself by talking, I don't know if it's fiction now or if it's real. Was I serious or was I just in an attack of artistic inspiration? I can't tell you this right now, but he doesn't mind signing it, he publishes it, and then we suffer the story from these media, once again, all of Gilas himself and all of The School itself. He publishes books, he asks questions, he notices them well. Apparently, he found none of these books appropriate, and if he writes about the trials he was working on, to describe the case of the release of the criminal Gnjilan group, perhaps in one of the following books he explained how there was a release at the second degree, on an appeal, in which he participated personally. He can even do it through this NGO CEPRIS or through his blog if he thinks it's necessary to react as soon as possible, not wait for us for the book, let him explain how much today, at least three, four channels, or immediately go on these TVs he defils to, so let him explain in his own words, how exactly this happened, why. He'll have to explain why everyone who claims to be right about evidence as solid as a rock was wrong then, so that I don't know more than anyone else, let them explain it nicely. But he kept his mouth shut and never bothered to deal with the issue. He therefore deals with issues such as the moral sermon and criticism of the authorities in the bizarre text, which mentions the harming of judgments, the loss of evidence, the cover-ups to show some terrible pressure on the judiciary. His inscriptions were responded by the men of the profession. So, this isn't the topic that any MPs are waving at today because he remembered this morning. Then, when this was happening immediately, people like, say, lawyers or associations of judges and prosecutors of Serbia came forward to say -- that doesn't make any sense. What's that look like? You're accusing me of it without any evidence, Majiæ, why don't you do it the way the regulations say? Why don't you go to the institutions, but you write like that, tweeting, giving interviews to the Nins, who doesn't, without any responsibility, without any serious steps, because you're a serious man as you think you are, a great expert if you claim to be, or what, a entertainer chronically eager attention? There was no answer, but there were texts. Look, now with what content - I would ask you to abolish one verdict, so Majic describes the relationship between a judge and a judge - I find the man guilty, at that point he was already innocent. That's all the Majic in those stories and statements of yours says - you weren't worried when you were losing sight of the hammers in the bookies. We've ironed bigger pigs for what it costs to rename something now. The judge only has to decide when all other options are exhausted, etc. And then the press asks him, is this fiction or is this real? What are you talking about, man? And he answers ironically, I leave it to my readers, in accordance with their conviction, to reveal what is meant to be. Fitivity does not exclude the possibility that the story is inspired by real characters and events, however, Majic argues. He's accusing, accusing, so the system he's supposed to belong to, accusing his own country of these things, and then he's being funny and charming, so he says -- don't think it's a coincidence because you thought it was an accident, on the contrary. And then they react, I've already said associations and individuals. The lawyer Svetozar Vujačić, was concerned with the question, and why would a man do this in the first place? Why would he behave like this? He offered one answer. Here, I'll read you what he offered as an answer. He says, Vujačić – Miodrag Majic is known to have all the forces against the regime, because with the former power of meteorological speed from the place of the judge, then the first municipal court appointed as president, and then from that place which was not recorded in court practice went directly into appeal and he now holds some moral lectures, it is the last man who can say anything. Whether this is like this or not, so what Majic would say, if it seems to you -- don't think it has anything to do with real faces and real events, here, to paraphrase Majic a little bit, maybe this has something to do with real faces and real events. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia asked him in response to his writings - why is he speaking now if he is professional, if he is moral, if he is honest, if he deals with principles? Why he never answered, they asked him openly in 2009, 2010 and there were many reasons. He says -- hundreds of your colleagues, I'll read you the references to that letter from the association. Hundreds of your colleagues were then thrown into the street. When they were disfigured, disgraced, trampled, just because they didn't fit in with the view of the judiciary that she had then the power and the power of that time. They ask him, Majicho, what were you silent about then? What does that mean? They say, Majic, you knew. You can't possibly be, and it's impossible to pretend that you don't know now that they were working on the lists of local party committees in 2009 and 2010 with the hand-written comments of local listeners who know that the judge is this one and that one or that one, that prosecutor, the godfather, the brother, the friend of the political party, that and that judge married to the lawyer, etc. Those were the things that recommended someone. He knew Majic. He knew, he knows now, there's no one in Serbia who doesn't know, so he kept quiet. He kept quiet then, and now he's talking about this subject and he's saying, "It's all either that or what in the legal sense equally points to guilt must have been known, but you kept quiet, you didn't write, you didn't take pictures, you didn't tweet, you didn't blog, you just stopped and you flew, you flew and you flew everyone else into the judiciary." That's what the association tells him, and there's no answer for Majic. He says – today you are designing ways to try to discredit anyone who could spoil your plans in dissipating the foundations of your small and so powerful empire. You started slandering and you started or you better said you continued to have your country and colleagues who dared to think otherwise slandered abroad. These are the people from the association seem to have heard him somewhere and seen him work. I didn't see him answer that. And they offered a possible answer – why man behaves like this, like Majic. Here is what their possible answer is – One thing is certain, you did not write about the Sorosev Funds and the funds of the Albanian Helsinki Committee, although it has been published in many media, there is a theme, it seems you have easily skipped over. Not a word about it on the blog, not on the dedicated media, not on the global means of describing Twitter. We agree, it is not easy to defend the issue that money for your projects, transparency and the judiciary of Serbia comes from such sources. What Majic would say – if this seems not an accident, you may be right, it may not be an accident. This is not what they say – it is never. He claimed and argued that Majic's pressure on the judiciary today has torn off every control. He says -- there's always been pressure on the judiciary, but the last few years, he's broken off every control. Today, according to him, someone's ever been worse. Of course, he did not hesitate to criticise the President of the Republic in his public appearances, why Aleksandar Vukic said something, why Aleksandar Vukic said something, why he commented whether or not to support a certain legal solution. And, while we're killing ourselves here to talk about values, and I told you what we were talking about, what the subject was -- amendments to the Criminal Code, where we're supposed to determine ourselves, finally, towards people who are able to rape and kill a three-year-old child. He says -- he doesn't have the right to talk about these things, Alexander Vukic, he only has some ceremonial role. And, he's the progeny, Majic, with views like this, all those theories that there's been some kind of breach of procedure here and the attitude common to all those who have found and smartly signed initiatives, once asked to discuss it here, to vote that it is adopted, and today they say something is not according to European standards in line with European practice. Their basic thesis is – it can't do that because he said it should be adopted by Aleksandar Vukic. Here's who first thought it couldn't be because he said something to Alexander Wolf. The job of the President of the Republic is neither to suggest nor to explain and none of it is. So, according to him, what's allowed, Majica, is no one else. He can also criticise and suggest and explain and say that the National Assembly will create a disaster, that the planet Earth will be wiped out the moment we say something. He can do all that, but neither the MP nor the President of the Republic can, no one can speak their mind about anything. Majic says – The government has only happily announced, completely independent and that the politicised judiciary, President of Serbia, is visiting the public service, with its assessment, from the eye, has concluded that members of the opposition are thieves, criminals and foreign agents, I imagine this has sounded particularly painful, and that because of the yellow judges, it is absolutely impossible to put some in prison. He said in an interview with the NIN, realizing that it is possible to abolish the judiciary, we only need to make a decision that we will be an eastern despotia. - Pure political statement, pure political activity. He says, "Why should someone mention the existence of any yellow judges?" Well, because of this 2009 and 2010, which Majic pretends he doesn't know, and he certainly remembers that period well, because somehow in that period he was doing very well, you can see it from his biography. He doesn't know what kind of yellow judges, something that's incomprehensible to him, and we're saying in this room, not once, we talked, so to the brother, 20 times about specific examples, about how the name and last name, the signature and the seal stood behind it, the representatives of the former regime, that someone has to be elected judge or prosecutor because he's politically close, along with the descriptions, you've heard what a brother from a woman, from a sister, so since he was good with us, so he financed us, to do to him. The SRS, Mrs Radeta and Mr Jojic spoke about it today, therefore because of these things. You said for ten years it won't be possible to repair the damage the DOOS regime has done. (Faith Radeta: 10 years.) I don't know if you're right, if it's ten, if it's more, I wish the dimensions of that disaster weren't that big, but I'm afraid you didn't overdo anything. A document that was officially delivered and published in "Politica" on 8.3.2014. We have brought to this National Assembly, I have told you, twenty times, an example of the Municipality of Vlasotince, judges of the municipal court, one note, a list of comments and suggestions, public prosecutors of Vlasotince, a follow-up, or another list, signed and stamped by the chairman of the municipal board of DS Vlasotince and the president of the Municipality of Vlasotince. Here's a picture of what it looks like. Is this the signature and seal of Slavoljub and on the other side of Srdjan? Same signature, same seal. Whether he wrote to each other or they made a joint proposal, so watch out, they signed and stamped one of the municipal boards of the DS, and the second seal of the Assembly of the Municipality. Imagine that they send the list away where they listed the characteristics. Let me remind you a little - this one and that one broke between the DSS and the DSS, but he overcame a good interest, so because, basically, he deserves a chance. That's what they suggest to be a judge because he broke to the right side, the side of the DS, so he could be given a chance, and the other is a sympathiser and his wife is a member of the DS, so he writes, and fair and valuable, and it's probably why he deserves the best, to make progress, to be interested in the judge in Nis, to be done to him. The third one's unsuspecting, unpromised, probably honest. That's what they wrote -- probably fair, but that's why he's friendly and sympathetic, so he's undeniable. The fourth is indisputable judicial qualities and has only one flaw - the husband is the former president of the local political organisation of the other party, so it still needs to be shaken and seen. There are both non-professionals and people with no reputation, but they deserve a chance. There are people with no authority, honest, but unusable, and they offer themselves, so they're probably also given a chance. Prosecutors, here - fair, hardworking, side by side unsuspectingly unsuspecting. So if it's corrupt, you can't tell. Professional, experienced and dismissed all criminal charges against the officials of the DS Municipal Committee. He threw it all away. Isn't that the greatest quality a man can have? His son is a member, deserves attention and a chance to advance, and he is very interested in being a deputy at a Special Court or a council, and there is also a deputy who has since the founding of a sympathiser and a safe voice, and therefore, since he is unsummated, is insufficiently entrepreneurship, but is undeniable for the deputy attorney general in Leskovec. This T-shirt doesn't know? He didn't know then, he doesn't know now? Well, it won't be that she doesn't know. This man became a star over the stars when he appeared on the show to oppose the foundation president, Mr. Igor Juric. They were absolutely thrilled by those who seem to inspire and disrupt each and every single opportunity to be against what Alexander Vukic said was good, against what our MPs said was good and that we wanted to support and that we wanted to adopt and needed someone to justify the complete breakdown of the brain that happened to the people who supported this proposal themselves, and then, because they always wanted to be against Vucic, always against the SNS, then they had to find some explanation why they were also against the Code of Criminal Amendments proposal. A possible star appeared to them as Majic, who explained why it was not European, why it was not human, etc., the moment it was said – well, it won't be possible to behave like that, jumped once again, and the barren and crows to defend it. They agree that all his convictions you've heard of. So this is such a level of pre-preparation that I don't know what to tell you about the quality of these illusions and allegations that may be fantasy, maybe not, I won't tell you, I'll just smile at it, and you figure out what it is. They agree with all that. They are pleased with every accusation that there is some dictatorial regime in Serbia, which, imagine, puts pressure on one judiciary and is acceptable to them and agrees with all the comments and the Criminal Code and every statement by the President of the Republic, but also with all the comments they have to make by Majic and his association regarding the amendments to the Constitution. In my belief, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs may have come to one of the most significant motives, therefore, this association of principled ones, he among them, with everything else they do, were among them, still, the most fiery advocates of the constitution that would allow them, if at all possible, to act for themselves, of themselves, of themselves, with themselves, and that they had nothing more to do with anyone under God, that no one could influence them, nor would they suggest themselves, choose themselves, choose themselves, and thus choose their own little empire, which was spoken of by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, broadly, empower and keep them going on. On September 12, 2018, listen to a sentence - despite the recommendations of the Venice Commission to ensure pluralism in judicial bodies and strategic documents that prescribe it, the Ministry of Justice has, in all likelihood, not given up its solutions to draft constitutional amendments in the area of justice. As can be seen from the final text, which was published, the ministry did not change the key solutions criticised by the domestic expert public, these experts, and later the Venice Commission. Among those who consider this is Majic, who claims the final solution was made even worse than what the ministry considered. When you read this, what can you conclude than it looks like the Venice Commission disagrees? Well, it won't be. So this final solution was agreed upon. They pretend they're not, and do you know why? Because the same ones, and it's obviously their task, will continue to exert incredible pressure not to adopt that solution that we have managed to secure some level of balance. I know people who are going to say -- it's not enough to say it -- it's what it is, but no, it's not good, except for that extremism and maximumism that they've drawn, and they're sure to keep breaking the back of the state of Serbia on this matter. It is seen to whom this role was set, who held it to this day, who was meant to hold it further, and those who decided to hold its wings, helped it to fly, were terribly upset. Their heart is broken because it's shown what it's about, what it's about and what it's about. You know what, these people have shown that they don't care about the state at all, not her interest, not the institutions, not the standards, not the rules, not the laws, nothing at all. The moment they dared to carve this kind of selfish urge and kale into a question like the proposal of the Tiani Law, as it is called, that is, the Criminal Code. They have shown that all borders have crossed and are able to literally do everything. What's that all about? Should what this Vidojkovic, also their star, one of the main pets, have written today? It's so disgusting that it's, believe me, hard to repeat. You'll hear that, too. Is that supposed to be evidence of honesty in opposition work? Is this supposed to be proof of preparedness to fight evil dictatorship until the end, while about this evil dictatorship everyone who wants to say whatever they want in all these media, in these papers, in these blogs, I won't even say it, that everyone can give himself the right to be declared "holy cow" and "God in little" so that he can salt our minds and explain to us what a MP cannot do, what the President of the Republic does not dare, and their highness dares. In the end, it should be reduced to this level of lowness, disgust and vomit like those that Vidojkovic seemed to have done this morning, and those who are going to be admired by those who have been complaining about Majic for the past two days. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as SNS MPs are concerned, our relationship with all these matters is clear. We will always be on the side of protecting those people who are at risk, and when that includes protecting our children, don't have any dilemmas about where we are. We will always be on the side of principle and we will not change them like these depending on whether or not she supports someone we can't politically think of, as they can't think of, they actually hate Alexander Vukic and all of us here. Lucky for Serbia, they don't ask questions like that. If they were to ask themselves, there would be no stone left on the stone from the judiciary or any other part of the system. As they once tried to make their star and their leader of Sasa Jankovic, you remember that scenario, the man who's in the system, and in fact all anti-systemic work, not with the goal of improving it, to make the system better, but to knock it down, to line it up so that everyone who's ready to interfere with their interests in a certain way, embellishes and draws and grabs their hands as much as it seems necessary. As they worked with Jankovic, here you can see now they're working with this Majic. As they went with Jankovic, don't doubt it at all, it'll go the same way with this. There is no political perspective, nor can it be, for the people of this matter understand well, and the people do not allow this sort of thing to go away. By the will of the same people, they do not ask, I repeat, they will not ask. Fortunately, Serbia today has someone to worry about. It is cared for by people who care about what it is like for this country, what it is for its children, how it is for its institutions and its future in every sense. While Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS look after these issues, trust Serbia will be well and only better over time, and these will end up where they deserve it. Look for that Jankovic, you'll know exactly what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54905	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54906	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54907	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few things that have brought great attention to this item of the agenda, i.e. to these united points within the framework of the second principled debate, which in the last few days have brought great attention to certain media and, above all, to those media that are harsh opponents of the policy of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the harsh opponents of the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a fully constructed case, the case of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Mr Miodrag Majic, from whom some media are trying to make a sacrifice of political persecution for us who belong to the SNS. These days we are at the stage of shame, primarily the president of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic, my fellow MP Marijan Risticevic, Vladimir Orlic and several other MPs who have dared to ask only a few questions concerning the action of Judge Majic, but for the action of Judge Majic outside the courtroom. So, we haven't commented and none of us have commented on an absolute verdict by Judge Majic, except that we have found what is the fact, which is that he took part in making a liberating verdict so-called. A "gnjilan group", which has been proven to have committed the most serious crimes against Serbs in KIM, which has been found innocent by some scheme of strange circumstances. So, regarding Judge Majic, we asked the question – in which civilised, democratic, European state is it possible to be a highly-ranked judge, and Judge Majic is the judge of the Court of Appeal? For Serbian citizens to know, appeals courts are just below the Supreme Cassation Court. So the highest court in the Republic of Serbia is the Supreme Cassation Court. Right under the Supreme Cassation Court are appeals courts. Judge Majic, therefore, is a highly-ranked judge, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. We've asked the question, and we're asking that question today. So we don't insult anyone. Some media, such as N1 TV, such as the daily "Today", such as the various mentalists, when it comes to human rights and freedoms, claim that we insulted the Majic judge, that we slandered him, that we led the hunt against him. We didn't do that. So, no one, no Judge Majic, absolutely anything offended. We're just asking one important question. So, in what European, democratic, civilised state is it possible that such a highly-ranked judge, such as Judge Majic, Judge of the Court of Appeal, will be the chairman of the Management Board of a non-governmental organisation, which is called the Center for Judicial Research, shall the CEPIS be shortened? It wasn't hard for me, I looked at the Agency for Economic Registers, that is, on the Agency for Business Registers website, so the Center for Justice Research is in active status. This is literally the data from today, or the fastest possible data, so data with today's date. It is an NGO, home number 28205414, headquarters of Belgrade, Zveztar, street Koste Abrasevic 22. The representative of this NGO is Slobodan Beljanski from Novi Sad, otherwise a lawyer. Date of establishment of 29 May 2016, date of adoption of the Statute on 29 May 2016. Duration time indefinitely, PIB, etc. So it's an NGO, and it's an NGO that has the leadership of judges, individual judges and lawyers. Everyone, not a man has to be a lawyer, knows that judges and lawyers are in every court case, he's been criminal or litigious, on different sides. So, the judge is someone who needs to be completely independent, objectively, self-evaluate in a criminal proceedings whether someone is guilty or not guilty of a certain crime, and in a litigation whether the claim is based or not. You're interested in a lawyer, and it's perfectly natural, it's consistent with the legal profession, but the job of a lawyer is completely opposite and completely different from the work of a judge. His task is to use his legal knowledge, legal skills, to use his speech skills to be in the interest of the party he represents, whether it's a natural or legal person. In particular, in a criminal procedure to try to prove that his client is not guilty of a criminal offence that is put on him, and in a litigation procedure to try to prove that, if he is a prosecutor, the claim was established, if the defendant is a representative, to prove that the claim was not established. There are people here who are lawyers, like my esteemed colleague Petar Jojic, who still have good lawyers here and can confirm that what I'm saying is true. We now have an absolutely incredible situation, that Court of Appeal judge Miodrag Majic is the chairman of the Board of Directors of the NGOs made up of judges and lawyers. Who guarantees Serbian citizens that Judge Majic or any other judge who is a member of this or some similar NGO, and this is not the only NGO in which you have judges and lawyers to act independently, independently, objectively and to rule on behalf of the people solely on the basis of the Constitution and the law, rather than on the basis of an agreement with lawyers. And we all know that's what's in our courts. In some courts there are more, in some courts there are fewer, but that there is one part of the judge and one part of the lawyer, I think it's a fact that no one can ignore and no one can deny. Who makes the CEPIS? The president of the CEPIS is Slobodan Beljanski. Mr. Majic is the chairman of the board of directors. Of CEPIS's attorneys, among other things, Gordana Mihajlovic, a lawyer, former judge and president of Belgrade's Second Municipal Court, then, Dr Vladimir Djeric, a lawyer, former adviser to Serbia-Montenegro's foreign minister and Vladimir Beljanski, a lawyer and president of the Vojvodina Bar. So, in the leadership of CEPIS, whose chairman is Mr. Majic's Management Board, there are four lawyers: Slobodan Beljanski and Vladimir Beljanski, I would say they are the father and son and Gordana Mihajlovic and Vladimir Djeric. So, we now ask Mr. Majic, we ask the Association of Judges of Serbia, we ask N1, we ask the "Today" list, we ask all those who say that we have insulted and attacked Judge Majic, let them give us a European and democratic state in which there is a principle of the rule of law for the judge, and that is a highly-ranked judge, to be president of the board of directors of the NGO in which half of the leadership are lawyers. I think that such a country in Europe, and also outside Europe, which is considered a civilized, democratic and legal state, does not exist. So, as you can see, I didn't say a single ugly word against Judge Majic, I'm just asking a question, so let's, in some next "The Imprint of the Week" or at some address via Twitter, explain in which country it's so possible that the judge of the board of directors of the NGO is sitting with him on the board of directors. I don't think there's a country like that anywhere. President CEPRIS is Slobodan Beljanski. Slobodan Beljanski is someone who was, in his time, the first man of law in Vojvodina, the man who was, and when he stopped being president of the Vojvodina Bar, the gray eminence of the Vojvodina Bar and someone who was not without influence in either the lawyer's or the judicial circles. That's what fellow lawyers and all those who deal with the judiciary know very well. Free Beljanski is someone whose law school in Novi Sad has annulled his doctorate. This is why I'm saying this, this is usually a fact, it's not a lie, it can be very easily checked, which these days is being led by a hack against the finance minister of Cynthia Mali, where his political opponents, and basically political opponents, Alexander Vukic, are trying to prove that his doctoral dissertation is plagiarized. The Faculty of Law in Novi Sad has annulled the PhD of Slobodan Beljanski, and this is later confirmed in court. So not only did the university's competent authority annul the doctorate, but the court confirmed by its verdict that the decision of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad was correct. Why am I saying this? Because members of the CEPRIS Management Board, Centre for Judicial Research, and this is exactly Miodrag Jovanovic, professor, to tell them all the titles, therefore, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Jovanovic, then Prof. Dr. Goran Dajovic, Professor Dr. Bojan Spajic, have filed a complaint against the decision of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Belgrade, since 8 May 2019, and the decision otherwise states that the doctoral dissertation is Sinish of the Small Original Scientific Work and does not represent any plagiarism. Prof. Jovanovic, Professor Spijic and, therefore, who I mentioned here, Prof. Goran Dajovic filed a complaint against the decision of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, and the appeal is being attacked by the decision of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Belgrade and continues to claim that Sinisa Mali has plagiarised his doctoral dissertation. At the head of their NGO is a man who not only was denied by the university doctorate, but was revoked by the court of his doctorate. That's what people are about. There is one more thing that the citizens of Serbia need to know, because you know those from N1, those from "Today", they're working on your next system. From one mosaic, and each mosaic is a complex picture with a lot of details, they draw only the detail that suits them and hide everything else from the citizens. The task of our MPs is to say everything we know about one phenomenon, not to express what is right for us. That is what MPs and authorities and MPs of the opposition do, and that is the job of every MP, whether he supports or does not support the government. But some media don't work that way, which is, of course, contrary to the code of journalistic ethics, because then you have to give all the facts. No, they only bring out what is right for them and say: "Here are these evil advances; they attack Miodrag Majic." We only bring forth facts and ask questions. As for Slobodan Beljanski, who is president and representative of the Centre for Judicial Research, so to speak. CEPRIS, he's a doctor at professor's office. He's a Grubač guy from criminal law. Momchilo Grubač is someone who was a federal minister in his day. What I want to say, and there are colleagues from the SRS, they can confirm whether I'm right or wrong, Momcilo Grubač is one of those who launched a false thesis in 1992 that the state of Serbia is pursuing the persecution of Croats from the Croats and other places in Srem. The story of the persecution of Croats from the Croats, of the persecution of Croatians from Vojvodina dates back to 1992. Dr Momcilo Grubac, who was then a federal minister, if I am not mistaken, for human and minority rights, claimed that there was an organized persecution of Croats from Hrtkovci, from Kukojevac, from Slankamen, from Golubinac, from some other places in Srem. Of course, none of it was absolutely true, but it was that the Serbs who were expelled from Croatia, and above all from those parts of Croatia who did not enter the Republic of Serbia, so Serbs from Zagreb, Serbs from Osijek, from Slavonska Požega, from Zadar, Split, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, etc., were changing their properties, their houses, apartments that were at that time, so, in 1991, they were worth several dozen, up to several hundred thousand marks, for houses, or properties that were worth incomparably less in Krtkovci, Golubinci, Slankamen, Kukojevci etc. In 1992 in Hrtkovci, Momcilo Grubac hid it from Serbian citizens, killed in August, with letters and numbers, one single Croat, Mijat Štefanac... (Veritre Radeta: In a bar fight.) That's right. Mijat Štefanac, a man who was otherwise prone to alcohol, sat in a bar with several Serbs who were expelled from Croatia, who were also drinking, or in an alcoholic state, and this Mijat Štefanac said to an exiled Serb – he was right to banish you, where good luck that drove you even more. Two drunk men got in a fight, one drunk man killed another drunk man. Of this case, Momcilo Grubač, Natasa Kandic and others have made an unprecedented political performance to justify what is happening to Serbs in Croatia, that is, according to the old well tried Tito's communist recipe, according to the balance system, you are all equally guilty. Yes, Tudjman expelled Serbs from Croatia, but Slobodan Milosevic also expelled Croatians from Vojvodina and they are all equally guilty, although we all know very well that this is absolutely not true. What happened to Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in Krajina cannot be completely reasonable to compare what happened to the Croats or to any other minority in Vojvodina in 1991, although I am deeply aware of the fact that some Croats experienced unpleasantness, that there were incidents, but there was no systematic and organised state persecution, as was happening in Croatia, and Momcilo Grubac, as a federal minister, claimed that the matter was even worse. In this same Momčel Grubač, Slobodan Beljanski was a doctorate after the Friday-October revolution, but the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad annulled this doctoral dissertation and confirmed by a court ruling that the decision of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad was absolutely in accordance with the law. I said this so that the citizens of Serbia would know all this and that no one would question them if any of us had something against Judge Majic. We don't have anything. Let him be a man alive and well. I wish him a lot of good and legal judgments, but these are facts. Whether or not someone likes those facts or not is his problem. Ponovic, I may be bored, but I will repeat the question, I ask Judge Majic, I ask Dragana Boljevic, I ask Dunjo Mijatovic, I ask all those who are running the hajka against SNS MPs these days - in which European democratic state a highly-ranked judge is president of the board of directors of the NGO, which are both judges and lawyers? What I also want to say is that Judge Majic presents himself as a victim of political persecution only because he is a judge. So, apart from finding out that he participated in the Gnjilan Group's acquittal, a group of Cypriot terrorists who have been found to have committed the most monstrous atrocities against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, among other things, women. We didn't comment on any of Judge Majic's decisions and I won't do it today. Judge Majic, however, introduced himself to the citizens of Serbia and is presented every day in a different light, in the light of politicians. I beg your pardon, when you come to a political show, such as "The Imprint of the Week", and you state your political position, such as the attitude that the Bill of Amendments and the Supplements of the Criminal Code, which the National Assembly adopted with an absolute majority of votes, is not good, then you do not act as a judge, but you act as a politician, but then so tell the citizens of Serbia - I am invited to a political show as politicians, and not, these advances are making a move against me because I am a judge. No one's making a move against him because the judge is just saying that you're not even a doctor anymore, then you're not even a college professor, then you're not even a priest, then you're no longer a priest, then you're not a priest, then you're no longer anything that's your profession or your profession, then you're a politician, but then you have to accept that political burden that you put on your own and you can't complain then if someone calls you for it. No, as one of the colleagues of the sacred cows in Serbia said. Everyone can call Alexander Vukic, and everyone can call any of us, either my MPs or the opposition MPs, but when a judge comes to a political show and a political show, you can't mention his name, let alone comment on what he said. Judge Majic said that the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, are so called "Tian's Law", because it introduces a life sentence for, among other things, those who rape a child, pregnant or powerless person, he said that the introduction of life sentences for such rapists, that it is inhumane, that it is contrary to European standards, although such a punishment knows the justice system of Great Britain, France, Germany, Slovenia and a series of other EU countries. We just asked the question - how can this be European in one Great Britain, Germany and Slovenia, and when it is to be introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, is it suddenly non-European? So obviously it's about double standards. Judge Majic asked himself, rather, politician Majic asked himself - what about the rights of that man who raped a three-year-old? Is anyone considering that by condemning him to life imprisonment, killing hope, watching out for what he said, killing hope that one day he would go free, and committing the most disgusting crime possible, he raped a girl and the girl died as a result of the rape? That's what happened to Tiani Juric. For this reason, the law is called “Tian’s Law. ” It's sad that we had to pass such a law at all, but the state was forced because there was no other mechanism to be accounted for, when I say we're counting, not the MPs, but the judicial system to deal with those who are willing to be cruel, to the extent that they're monstrous, that they're willing to rape a girl who hasn't actually started living, to take her right to life, and then, imagine, philosophically -- where does the right of the state to kill hope such a cantish, hegelian word, says she's killing the hope of such a bully that someday she'll go free? I thought it was the height of hypocrisy, the height of debauchery. Of course, let me tell you honestly and the height of courage to say something like that. I have two 13-year-old girls. I don't know what I'd do to a man who'd think of doing what a lunatic did to Tiani Juric. I say this as a man, not as a messenger, as a common man. I thought it was the height of hypocrisy and peak, as I said, the courage to say in a political show that it's inhumane that you're going to condemn one such man who's raped a girl of several years and who died, as a result of the rape, to a life sentence in prison. That's what I meant until today, actually, that's what I meant by yesterday. Yesterday he appeared on his portal, his portal "Buka" is one of the leaders of this protest "One of the Five Million", Marko Vidojkovic. I apologize in advance. Tell me, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54908	You've got about 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54909	Thank you. I apologize in advance to the citizens of Serbia, apologize in advance to the MPs, and I especially apologize to the ladies sitting in the National Assembly, but I will read from word to word what was written on my portal by a man who presents himself as a writer, as he presents himself as a judge and related to "Tian's Law". It was published yesterday on his portal called "Buka". Says Marko Vidojkovic like this – the title of the text "Tiana's dictatorship", "Is any law that brings shit that smells like bananas in the Serbian Parliament can be a good law? Of course he can't. Under the light of candles burning in the mention of Tijana Juric, a group of progressive vultures went straight to her grave by bringing "Tiana's Law", which, contrary to all civilizational reach, imposed a life sentence without parole for the murderers of powerless persons, children and pregnant women", and then three counts of "and terrorists, assassins, perpetrators of a coup, in short, enemies of the regime. To be clear with the point of this legal act." "The European Union has tried to appeal to the mind of the sucking dictator Alexander Vukic, saying: "Hello, you son-of-a-bitch, what law are you making? Do you remember who brought you into power?" For weeks, however, he has been giving up his dick and the strongest countries in the world for weeks, calling their statements the stupidest thing he's ever read, and then grilling and all the neighbouring countries with his unscathed dictionaries, making it clear that he's completely separated from reality. “ This is what Marko Vidojkovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, writes, one of the main speakers at the "One of the Five Million" protests. Next, says Marko Vidojković: “What is the so - called “Tiana’s Law ” written with a shitty progressive ink on the grave of a dead girl? It serves to accuse the opposition of supporting the rape of powerless persons and pregnant women because she boycotted the session of parliament at which this law is at," it wrote -- it was passed." So much for literacy. But it's just the beginning. "Let's add to "the secret law" the parameters by which we can criticise the authorities to characterise as a coup, so that we can put critics in a march to the death, how smart we are. That's what "Tiana's Law" looked like, just add more cocaine and silicone prostitutes. The next thing you know by the same law, there are mini attempts at coups in the form of carved tweets, high-ranking columns or angry statements by desperate citizens. But it's nothing compared to what's the right point. Any attempt by the police to do their job and arrest one of the criminals who usurped power will be characterized as a coup and sanctioned by life imprisonment, thanks to criminals infiltrated in the prosecution and courts," says writer Marko Vidojkovic, pictures and opportunities of Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic. "What else is waiting for us except that we're all going to fuck? In the same building under which horses, mules and donkeys play symbolically – think of the National Assembly building – which muddy carpets of its carpets will bring, says, and the law on Kosovo," referring to this session at which we will discuss the report on Kosovo and Metohija, "that is, it will carry out a coup, but one for which there are no consequences. Seven years after coming to power, the insurgency of fecality, Aleksandar Vukic, is certain that he will not have the opposition votes because he literally threw the opposition's congregation terror into the street, will come before his corrupt, empty-headed, no-gooders to present a solution for Kosovo, which they will vote without listening, to prevent citizens from reacting to a decision not to prevent Kosovo from entering the UN, and to prevent any attempt by the state authorities to resist the self-will of an impotent tadpole from the 45th bloc. That is why the “Tiana’s Law ” appears to be passed. And you are in the mood to argue about whether Tadic deserves to be in the Democratic Party again, whether Vuk Jeremic is a small Kostunica who looks like Sunđer Bob, whether Sergei is crazy, whether the Civil Front is all Bolshevika, whether Nikola Kojo made a deal with "Telekom", whether Teodorovic is too old for the president of Serbia, whether Dusan Petrovic lives too close to Nebojja Zelenovic, whether Bosko Obradovic is a washed-up Ljotic, etc. Because whoever shows up won't be good enough, not because you're cowards, although there is, but because you're forced through social networks to make public statements about things that are better to keep your mouth shut. Civil protests can't stop. “ So, no doubt, this is not just Marko Vidojkovic’s opinion. He was just enough, if I may say so, crazy to put this on paper, or on his portal. These are the views of Dragan Gilas. That's what Wolf Jeremy thinks. This is Bosko Obradovic's opinion. "Citizen protests must not stop. The protest is our duty, for several hours, during which we will show that we have stood up against what our complicated psychopath lost in the psychiatric diagnosis of Alexander Vukic and his hordes are doing. Would "Tiana's Law" be a critical mass on the streets to demonstrate against him? “ He therefore calls on Serbian citizens to demonstrate against the introduction, that is, the adoption of "Tiana's Law". "What would happen to the previous criminal laws that democracy in Serbia has been buried? We'll never know, because there was no one on the streets. Going to protest is not a struggle for the opposition to power, but a struggle for the naked survival of Alexander Vukic and his gang. The protests on Fridays and Saturdays will not drive him out of power, but it will help us make our lives easier until the next election. If the protests stop, we'll fuck 'cause they don't have mercy. Their crimes don't know the limits. Even Tijana Juric was raped again and killed once again, and this time we could follow it live. “ And it ends with a sentence, I guess, that he would be funny, although I really don’t know who this is funny: “Get in line for life imprisonment. ” There, dear citizens of Serbia and you journalists of N1 TV, and you respected Mr. Jugoslave Cosic, and you respected Drazo Petrovic and all you great advocates of human rights from N1 TV and the list "Today", here is a picture and an opportunity for those who are at the head of the protest "One of five million". They say -- Tijana's dictatorship, and we say -- it's a good thing the state of Serbia has the courage to deal with those who are willing to rape a child and kill him. Wait a minute, there's another one. Sergei Trifunović, this is a tweet from today. He actually referred to what he wrote on his portal yesterday, Marko Vidojkovic. Sergei Trifunovic, a religious actor, a religious artist, and in fact one, obviously, I don't know what word to use, a man with serious problems, says on his Twitter account: "The on-call bat pronounces a dead cold, spitting opposition, they don't care about Alex's law." I don't know if he meant me, the government of Orlic, Marijan Rističević, Mark Atlagic, I don't know who he meant when he said "supervisory bat," but it doesn't matter now. He says, "I think we should still open public toilets on your graves." That is what Sergey Trifunovic writes, to whom Serbian citizens should worship as a great actor and as a great artist. He says the same Sergei Trifunović, again today: "Well, now that you've adopted Tijana's law," as if it's now a law on hunting and fishing or some ordinary law, and we're actually punishing people who rape a child, "Well, now that you've adopted "Tiana's law," do you intend to deal with Alex's law so explicitly, or is it irrelevant, because there's nothing you need to implement in it". I say this because of Yugoslavia Cosic, because of Draža Petrovic, because of all these false advocates of freedom of thought in Serbia. The parliamentary majority of the SNS parliamentary group with its coalition partners has already adopted "Alex's Law" by implementing the solutions contained in the "Alexis Law" proposal in the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Education. We thus envisioned a legal mechanism for no child in Serbia to be the victim of acts of violence such as little Alexa anymore. But the one who falsely presents himself as an actor and as an artist, as the one falsely presents himself as a writer and as the third person who falsely presents himself as a judge, they do not know that the National Assembly has practically already adopted "Alex's Law" a few years ago. So a few years ago, we passed Alexa's law and predicted a legal mechanism to stop peer violence from happening with a fatal outcome. As we have now provided for this Tijana law, we have taken everything that is up to us. You can never completely prevent the execution of crimes, but we have indeed done everything possible, objectively possible, to prevent it from being raped by a special and general prevention that no more sick and disintegrated mind can come to terms with raping a girl and killing her. On the occasion of his Twitter warrant, Igor Juric, the father of the late Tijana Juric, who is simply embarrassed by what Marko Vidojkovic writes, what Sergei Trifunovic writes and all those who speak these days to representatives of the Alliance for Serbia who say Tijana's law is inhuman, that Tijana's law is non-European, that Tijana's law is something that makes Serbia not open Chapter 23 and will never enter the European Union. I'll make my point. If that's why we're never going to enter the European Union, because we're going to put ourselves in jail for life, those who are willing to rape a three-year-old child, then we really don't need to enter the European Union. If this is why we will not enter the European Union, into that same European Union where the legal systems of almost all the Member States of the European Union know the life sentence of prison for this type of crime, then we or we will not really enter the European Union or someone really knows nothing about the European Union or the legal legislation of the European Union. What I want to say in the end is that I should call Judge Majic, call Jugoslav Cosic, invite Draž Petrovic, say everything, Mićko Ljubicic and all those who represent themselves as independent intellectuals and as defenders of human rights and freedoms, as defenders of independent journalism, etc. to cease to tell lies about us people's MPs, whether we are in power or in opposition, and to tell the whole and complete truth about what interests all the citizens of Serbia, and not to cut that truth into pieces, and to offer a piece by piece to their viewers, or readers as the whole truth, and all of us who sit here and who we are discussing know that this is not the whole truth, but only one small part of the truth. Here, for Serbian citizens to know, Judge Majic continues to play politics. I don't know if he has anything to do with that Court of Appeal. I think the judge's job is hard, hard. Isn't that right, Mr. Jojic? You were the federal minister of justice, you controlled the work of the courts, so you know there's some court code that has to be met by the judge of the basic court, so the higher court, then the court of appeal, has to make a number of judgments at the monthly level, etc. A working-time man tweets to present himself as some great hero and some great victim of political persecution, Majic says: "I am now part of a broader conspiracy against President Vukic. As I recall, after amending the Criminal Code, a new kind of sanctions can be imposed. Maybe I should finally worry," and then this, as the young, smiley fellow would say. And it shows you what kind of people you're dealing with. He thinks it's funny that we passed Tijana's law. He finds it funny that we fight those who are willing to commit the most serious crimes possible. He finds it funny that we ask him in which European state you have to be judge of the Court of Appeal and at the same time chair of the board of directors of the NGO, that you receive money from both abroad and from the country, while sitting on the board of directors and lawyers. He thinks it's funny. I don't think Serbian citizens are funny. It's not particularly funny to those citizens who participate in any court proceedings. Is it Judge Majic or politician Majic or Twitter Majic? I don't know what it is anymore. He must know, since he is the judge of the Court of Appeal, that he is sending a very bad picture of all the judges in Serbia. And not all judges are like this. There are honorable and many, I hope that most of the honorable, honest, professional and responsible judges who live only on the salary they receive from the state of Serbia from the budget, and not live on the salary plus donations they receive from Serbia and abroad to be, unfortunately, I must say, the enemies of their own state and their own citizens who need to be given justice in courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54910	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, we have sworn here that we will defend human rights and that it is the most important part of that oath that we will defend human rights. The night I saw Judge Majic, I broke it. He accused us of inhumanity, etc. I broke to ask about the Gjilan group. In the name of what humanity did Judge Majic make such a decision? It's because of the human rights of these people, and it's 80 non-Albanian victims killed by this Gjilan group and over 250 tortured. I have broken to ask, knowing that N1 television will be broadcast by Ljubljana, and when Judge Majic goes to visit, he is visiting Belgrade, but the TV is not registered in Serbia, they say they are broadcasting from Ljubljana, so may Majic say when he was in Ljubljana. I knew I'd pay a price, I knew they'd attack me, but I asked why, in the name of which humanity was released by the Gjilan group. In doing so, I have accused the KLA of terrorists, not accusing Albanians, because I defend minority rights. I accused the KLA of terrorists. No one can be guilty because he's not a Serb, but no one can be guilty anymore because he's a Serb. There is no price I will not pay to mention both Serbian victims and to ask criminals against Serbs to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54912	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54913	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Martinovic mentioned the barrister of law and the rope in court with corruption. I'd just like to point out one example of what the line is between judges, prosecutors and some lawyers. Here's that devil's lawyer, Predrag Basaric of Pančev, with his apprentices judges and prosecutors, managed to take from the man two apartments worth 80,000 euros from the contract, to get him a building permit for a construction facility. "Ingrap apartment" from Belgrade, as damaged, whose legal representative Zivkovic Zivojin, has filed criminal charges against Predrag Basaric, however, the public prosecutor rejects criminal charges, no criminal proceedings are being conducted, and the man is now in such a situation, the building permit has not been obtained, but by no regulations, by any tariff lawyer's back a hundred years has been recorded as one legal service costing 80,000 euros. Now, is there corruption here? This cannot go without corruption, because it had to be responsible for fraud and abuse of trust and thus the right to take place. What I'd like to say in the end, what the dosmanians have done. The Dosmanians remembered how to protect their thieves when they passed the Code of Criminal Procedure. The institute of a substidiary prosecutor was expelled in a blood procedure. And why is that? This was done by the yellows in order not to come under attack and not to answer criminally for the robberies and the millions and billions of damages and thefts done by the Republic of Serbia. What he would have told the judges to take the Law on Judges into their hands and take the code of ethics and watch them see what Mr. Martinovic said, in parallel law, how things are, how they should behave. So, one judge, he must, first of all, be deprived of any opportunity to deal with affairs that are not in accordance with the Law on Judges and are not in line with the ethical code. I'd just like to say that when we talked about the judge's election today, or the judge's resolution, we should have a proposal today who's going to continue the day after tomorrow. The office until the Parliament regulates the issue. Moreover, what I would like to say, I would like to suggest to the government of the Republic of Serbia that it finds opportunities, to increase salaries for the holders of judicial functions, judges and public prosecutors for reasons to prevent corruption in judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54914	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54915	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I agree with the good part with what Honorable colleague Petar Jojic said, but I don't think Mr. Jojic here is the pay for it, there is no judge Majic's small salary. I can't right now I haven't had time to check, but I can also check if this session takes another few minutes. The judges of the appeals courts have very, very decent salaries for conditions in the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, with today's date, one good news for the citizens of Serbia, not only that in the dark tones of Mark Vidojkovic and Sergey Trifunovic, on today the average salary in Serbia is net of 54,000 dinars. This only shows how successful the policy we have led was, which was courageously promoted by Aleksandar Vukic, and implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the average salary in Serbia on May 23rd is 54,000 dinars, even slightly higher, but to round to 54,000 dinars, that's the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. The judge's salary is over, I'm sorry if I'm going to make a mistake, but I don't think I'm going to make over 200,000 dinars. It's a salary that can be very decent to live on. However, there are people who think it is small and who think that with the salary they receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and very often work against the state of Serbia, they should receive some more donations as chairman of the boards of directors of various NGOs. In doing so, they forget the password that was carved at the entrance to the old Dubrovnik Republic, that Professor knows. Marko Atlagic, a password held by all the princes who ruled the Dubrovnik Republic until Napoleon abolished in the early 19th century, and the exchange reads – who should forget his private affairs. Judge Majic seems to be similar to him for this password that the old Dubrovnikers knew he didn't even hear about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54916	Thank you. You have no right to the replica of your colleague Jojic. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54917	Mr. President-in-Office of Arsic, ladies and gentlemen, when there were today words about the criminal affairs related to the reform of the judiciary I failed to state that Nata Mesarovic had thrown out maltenes with 150 infringement studies that had been left without work and personal income in an anti-constitutional manner, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has appointed as the authority of the judiciary for violations, however, Nata Mesarovic took the right to leave 150 judges without bread while she was in power and how she ruled and how she managed the judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. It didn't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54918	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I have promised, so that the citizens of Serbia know, and you too, Mr. Jojic, that there is really no problem with the salary. According to what Judge Majic has delivered as his property ticket to the Anti-Corruption Agency, he receives three million dinars on an annual basis from the Serbian state on behalf of the salary as judges of the Court of Appeal. When that amount is divided into 12 months, that means that his monthly salary is 263 thousand 917 dinars. I ask the citizens of Serbia, I ask the citizens of whom they judge or participate in the case of Judge Majic, I ask, workers, I ask the peasants, I ask the professors of the university, is there a small salary of 263,000 dinars? Is it necessary that, with that salary from a 263,000-dollar Serbian state, you get more donations from abroad to be the head of an NGO that works less openly against the state of Serbia, its legal system and against citizens? So, Mr. Jojic, this isn't about an average salary of 54,000 dinars today in Serbia, this is about a salary of 263,000 dinars, received by a man who tweets at worktime. So he writes these tweets at work instead of judging, instead of meeting the court code, he insults the MPs of the people. He accuses one day Marijan Risticevic, on the second day Vladimir Orlic, on the third day of me, Maja Gojkovic and so on, every day of Alexander Vukic, and for that every month, a man receives 263,000 almost 264,000 dinars. So with a good part of your presentations, Mr. Jojic, and you're a good lawyer, you've been a federal minister of justice, you've had the courage to tell some representatives of the international community a lot of things they didn't like and why they needed both personal and political courage. So I don't agree just in that part of your exposure that the problem is in small pay. They don't have small salaries, they don't have pay problems, they have a problem which is their weak conscience, both legal and social.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54920	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said that I have broken Mr. Majic's question, there is no price I will not pay to ask for the crime of KLA terrorists who killed 80 Serbs and the method of taking a soul lightly. My soul is not for sale. I let my body do these with N1 television and other Serbia whatever it wants, when my soul goes away, the body doesn't interest me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54922	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54923	Thank you, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-23-0.u54924	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary group, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint Single Search on the Proposals for Decisions referred to in points 2 to 4 of the agenda. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be back tomorrow at 10:00.
