ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67022	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer the parliamentary question to Ana Brnabić and Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević. We usually talk about the topic of textbooks only when the school year is beginning, otherwise the Ministry is not involved at all, but in the meantime we were able to see a scandal over this topic. So, those who favor the largest producer in Serbia are "Bigz", "Klet" and "Logos", all owned by the Croatian publisher "The School Book". After that, we have history textbooks, first of all, which are not only historically incorrect, but are largely offensive to our people, our history and our culture. So, after those events that Serbs, in fact, when they came to the Balkans in time, found Albanians and took their land, where we saw some medieval fictional states when Serbs came to the Balkans, represent Croatia's non-existent history as a history based on facts, and the last of all, we had a really big scandal. So, blood tax, abduction of Serbs, i.e. Serbian children by the Turkish military to be represented by them after making soldiers as something considered positive at the time. So, blood tax is a positive thing in history books for elementary school. How is it possible that no one is responding? It says in Bigz's sixth class textbook: “The blood tax allowed the boys to advance on the social scale, and in turn they were completely loyal to the Sultan. So many of them became members of the important and influential elite of the Ottoman Empire. “ It’s a blood tax in elementary school textbooks. Where's the Ministry's reaction? How is it possible that this is allowed in our schools? Did someone from the Ministry of Education, before those textbooks even show up at school, read those textbooks? Is it possible that no one read this before it appeared in schools? Is it possible, if you have read, that you agree? Well, I guess if one Mehmed Pasa Sokolovic, did that mean that they were all the great viziers who were abducted from thespian families, converted to another religion and became Turkish soldiers and Turks, after all, in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries? Does the Ministry agree with this? It's like we can find out tomorrow that Jasenovac had some positive stuff. That was, I'm sorry, it could've been done there. It's on that level. So, mandatory reaction from the Ministry of Education to ban this as soon as possible. One more thing, we here force Croatian publishers and then we have scandals like this. What about the Department of Publishing textbooks and curricula? What about the official messenger? How is it possible that privileged Croatian publishers are and then we can find this from them? These are otherwise HDZ's open finances in Croatia. So Bigz publishing house bought the School Book, owned by Croatian tycoon Ante Zuzul, a HDZ funder. "Logos" and "Klet" are owned by Ante Zuzul, Daniel Žderic and Roko Kvaternik. These are the owners of these publishing houses that have textbooks in our schools. So, to ban anyone other than the Department of Publishing, to deal with these textbooks, because we really have a very bad experience, especially because we have to force the state publisher, not to force the state publisher to force Croatian publishers. That's really insane. The sooner Mrs. Brnabic and Mr. Sarcevic react, especially to the Serbian Radical Party's initiative to print the pieces of Nobelte Peter Hanke, a great Serbian friend, as soon as possible. We still haven't got the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67024	The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67025	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister for Environmental Protection. So how many calories do they do exist in Serbia in private and state, and how did the arbitration of the Energo-Green against the state of Serbia end, and what is the fate of this facility? In order to remind myself, animal residues and dead animals are processed into animal food, meat-bone flour as energy, or to obtain biodiesel and biogas, and burning waste at high temperatures can also be used to produce hot water and steam. So there's a multiple possibility of using these remains. By 2017, it was still possible to monitor what was happening to the cafilariums, but today we do not know what they are doing, how they are facing and what problems they are facing. In 2013, in India, modern Energo-Green Cafilarium was released, owned by a Belgian investor, over 150,000 tonnes of processing capacity per year, for which the investor invested around 21m euros. In 2014, about 95% of dead animals and other animal waste from flooded areas were processed to remind you in this cafeteria. You know that that year we had huge floods in Serbia and about 160 tonnes of waste from flooded areas in BiH. It can be said freely that this cafilarium has managed to repair the consequences that would have been far worse and far more harmful if this waste hadn't been processed. At the end of 2014, "Energogreena" suspended its work and demanded the return of funds, and since no agreement was reached with the Republic of Serbia requested arbitration before the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes in Washington over the systematic failures of Serbia to implement rules in the area of animal waste processing. In fact, this capacity could not be respected because the amount apparently agreed on was not collected on the ground. Afterwards, the only California she worked was "Proteinka" in Sombor, and then she worked in Cupria. For years there have been complaints of citizens, parts of the city, let's say Somboro for an insufferable smell from this bar and for incomplete treatment or inadequate treatment of this waste. There have been inspection reports, court decisions against people in charge, due to improper treatment of animal waste. The latest is information that this cafilarium will be shut down. In Zrenjanin, too, citizens have a problem with the smell and pollution from the private “Preko” office, which has a court solution from November 2018 on the ban and processing of animal waste for three years unless it installs filters and prevents air pollution. This verdict was confirmed in a retrial in May this year. So, what is the real situation and how in Serbia is treated with dead animals and animal waste? About 273,000 tonnes of this waste is produced annually in Serbia. Based on the Waste Management Strategy, the Republic of Serbia is for 2010/2019. Only 20% is processed in the callilries. Is this information true today? In the meantime, dead animals are also dumped mostly without treatment, buried and dumped on wild and sanitary dumps as slaughterhouses. There's no exact record of how many dumps there are. That's why underground waters are in danger, population health is at stake, and there's an unsustainable smell spreading, and all of this can be very dangerous for people, and that's why I'm asking these questions. Under the law of local self-government, they are required to build inter-states where dead animals are collected by special vehicles and kept until dispatch to the cafeteria. In Serbia, according to the data that I have, there are only three facilities in Kikinda, Pancheva and Vrsac of 158 municipalities. Then no wonder a picture of a mountain of chicken remains on the coast of Moravi or a decomposed pig in the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, or a bloated cow by the field at plus 40 degrees. The Green Fund, I'll remind you, is 4.3 billion in this year, and a total of 12 billion dinars are collected as an eco tax. Whether part of these funds will be channelled into local self-government to build inter-units and to prevent such uncontrolled disposal of animal waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67026	The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67027	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I ask the question to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs, and to support Serbian agriculture, Serbian village and improve the position of women in the country. We must not as a society forget about the Serb village, we must not allow Serb villages to shut down, we must invest more in the Serb village and how to improve the difficult situation of women's lives in the country. Since I am an MP coming from the heart of the agricultural area, from Alexandročka Župa, Kopalnička and Rasinski district, since the first day I was in the National Assembly, I have been pushing for the problem and improvement of the situation of farmers, especially in mountainous and mountainous areas and agriculture in southwestern and southwestern Serbia. The JS parliamentary group and our President Dragan Markovic-Palma provide very important advice and suggestions on improving the situation of farmers and local self-government where we participate in government, frees farmers from paying taxes on agricultural land, paying agricultural weights and even improving their position. However, there are local self-governments that are not able to deal with the problems that weather and disasters bring, so that these local self-governments require greater support from the ministry in order to improve and address the problem, especially when it comes to investing in anti-urban protection and investment in irrigation systems. Only by these measures that the Ministry of Agriculture can carry out especially increased in these mountainous and mountainous areas can we prevent that agriculture, especially when it comes to orchards, vineyards, then, raspberries, where it is necessary in the event of natural disasters for a longer period of time to recover them, and in certain cases they cannot be recovered. The second question I ask the Ministry of Agriculture is also about supporting farmers, whether the state can guarantee the purchase price of agricultural products in a quarter-long period of time so that the farmer can, during this period when he plans to say, plant and in what he wants to invest, decide which agricultural product he wants to produce and pay off that agricultural product. I would like to refer the second question to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy as regards improving the position of women in the country. As an MP from the interior, I always want to point out that the life of women in the city and in Belgrade is not the same as the life of women in the country. In the previous period, the position of women in the country is quite even with the position of women in the city and it is the biggest problem that has been made because there has been no special attention to the very different needs and conditions and to say, not gender equality that women in the country and the difficult conditions have the need for the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy to support these women with a special strategy and measures. So the question I'm asking the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy is, how far has it come with the strategy of improving the position of women in the country, economic empowerment of women and information literacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67028	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67029	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform the public that today is the 351 day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work for which they receive their salary neatly. In this way, they best show the attitude towards the function they perform, the attitude towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the attitude towards the citizens. I have several parliamentary questions addressed to the MUP, and they refer to the meeting held a few days ago in front of the RTS building, which was organised by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradović and the whole sad team, which was actually a blockade of RTS at eight o'clock. Now imagine a hundred Gilas activists gathered and blocked the work of RTS for eight hours. I am asking the question, as long as we tolerate the lawlessness of the Alliance for Serbia and how long will an absolute minority be harassing Belgrade citizens with various blockades, various institutions. A statement by the Police Administration for the City of Belgrade said it was incorrect that the Alliance for Serbia had reported the meeting today in front of the RTS building, and it is concluded that the organisers did not respect the Law on Public Assembly and that is what Police Administration Chief for Belgrade Milan Stanic said. Prior to that, the chairman of the Executive Board of the Turnover Movement, listen to the Turnover Movement, Milorad Badov, joined the Palilula Police Station and applied for a public gathering on 11 December. So Palilula Police Station made the same notification to the SZS contact person about the submitted application, which was first established, that the application was untimely, because it was not submitted in the prescribed time limit and incomplete, because it did not contain the necessary and the law prescribed, and in this respect, the meeting is not considered to be registered. So that is a statement, that is, a statement by the Police Administration for the City of Belgrade. I'm asking all of this because it's not the first time you've shown disrespect for the law in that sense, which represents the ultimate haughtiness of those of the U.S.S. So we have a statement from poor Srdjan Markovic, one of the organisers of the "One of Five Million" protest, I think on December 3rd this year, where he openly says he will no longer report to the police. Here, says Srdjan Markovic, one of the organisers of the "One of the Five Million" protest for "N1" to set the deadline for the police to reveal the attacker to him tomorrow, and says that if there is no answer, they will no longer report their meetings to the police. Then, on December 13th this year, again, the "One of the Five Million" statement said it would not report protests, "One of the five million," said it would not report another protest, as police have not yet identified the attackers of their, someone, an activist. So they openly admit that they're breaking the law, that they're not going to report their meetings, and I really don't know how long this is gonna be tolerated. As long as the minority boasts that they are living up to the citizens of Belgrade, that they are harassing the citizens of Belgrade and still boasting that they publicly praise that they do not respect the law and that they do not think of respecting it. As anyone comes to their senses, they immediately block some institutions, so whether it's the presidency, whether it's the Assembly, whether it's RTS, whether it's the Rectorate or not. Remember that lunatic who tried to break a window with her the other night? And no one. How is it that when the Serbian Progressive Party is to hold a simple stand, a promotional stand, so we regularly report a meeting to the police, here, my Vracharci, every weekend on the Kalenic market, hold stands, talk to citizens, and orderly report a rally to the police, and these can block the whole city, paralyze traffic for several hours, and no one, and yet praise it. And all the more expensive, the whole tragic rally in front of RTS was given by Borko Stefanovic, who appeared in the rally's shoes with the brand "Prada", no less, no more than 620 euros. Here, the media says, "No "Prade", there's no blockade. “ So Borko Stefanovic at a 620-euro "Prada" shoe rally. Since Borko comes from the Freedom and Justice Party, I now suggest that they change their name to the Freedom and Prada Party. So, to throw out the letter "v" because it's obvious that their officials wear only expensive shoes. We know that she was wearing 1,500-euro shoes too. We know that Bastac has 13,000 euros in his pocket as an allowance, here is Borko in 600-euro shoes, and these are left-handed men, who advocate labour rights, and wear 600-euro shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67030	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67031	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, my questions concern the implementation of a policy to protect the protection of the promotion and popularisation of our cultural heritage and the need for these issues to be more represented in our education policies, and I therefore refer to the Minister of Culture and Information and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. The fact is that Serbia's cultural heritage is of invaluable value and of great importance to preserve our national identity, our faith and tradition, culture and history. We are proud to point out that Serbia is a country of rich material and immaterial cultural heritage and that it is our obligation to make this valuable resource available to the present generations and future generations through proven activation, as well as investment in its preservation. In this respect, it is extremely important that programmes to preserve restoration and restoration, as well as programmes to continuously promote and popularise cultural heritage, with the aim of bringing the general public closer to our citizens, but also to foreign tourists in the best way to their value, history, symbolism and duration. The special importance of preserving cultural heritage and investing in cultural historical sights is from the aspect of tourism, as shown by the results, polls, the tourism organisations of Serbia, by which cultural heritage is the one that attracts as many as 65% of tourists in our country. On the other hand, tourism and cultural heritage are huge potential for local, economic and any other development. This specifically refers to cities and municipalities, geographical areas where monuments of culture, archaeological sites, spatial cultural and historical continents are located. How serious a challenge is ahead of us and not having a task, preserving cultural heritage, unequivocally tells us that when it comes to fixed cultural goods in the Central Register 2,306, of which 2,023 are monuments of culture, and 151 is an archaeological site. Out of the impressive number when it comes to cultural monuments, 512 have been declared a good of great importance, 200 has the highest degree of protection under domestic law, and 10 cultural monuments are on UNESCO, as part of the world's cultural heritage. Among them, when it comes to our monuments of culture are Stari Ras Sopočani, Studenica, but there are medieval monasteries located on KIM: Gracanica, Pećka Patriarchy, High Decani, Church of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška. So, clearly, our cultural heritage is our wealth, but our obligation to keep and invest in its restoration and preservation. We are witnessing that in the last few years, thanks to the dedicated work and the great investments of the Republic of Serbia, several cultural monuments have been restored in our country, I will mention only some: Subotic synagogue, Fortress in Bac, Piroth Fortress, or Momchilov City, church complex in Jablanica, Golubak Fortress in Smederevo. Given that the implementation of the cultural heritage conservation programme requires a lot of funding and large investments are from the national budget, we know that some other funds are available to us, such as the EU Culture Funds, and I therefore refer questions to the Minister of Culture and Information and the following. Are priorities set for next year in restoring and restoring cultural goods and what are the facilities? Are there prepared cultural heritage restoration projects that Serbia can apply to EU funds? Does the Ministry co-operate with UNESCO, especially when it comes to our heritage under the protection of UNESCO, which is located in the KIM area? A question for the Minister of Education, whether there are opportunities to introduce compulsory educational content, and through the subject of national history that would refer to Serbia's rich cultural heritage, whose goal it would be for our children, from the earliest age, to learn about the wealth of our cultural heritage and the importance of its protection and preservation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67032	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67033	Thank you. I have already said several times that here this institution of parliamentary matters is part of the authority of the Assembly, or of the MPs, who works I will not say well but better than some of the other functions of the National Assembly. My experience, not 100%, but mostly, is that when a serious question is referred to by competent institutions, mostly serious answers. I've got a whole set of answers here and I say, I've occasionally praised some of the ministries for being up-to-date in those answers. Sometimes they, as I said, are more formal, are sometimes essential, but obviously not all institutions are just as polluted and, I would say, arrogant as they sometimes seem to the citizens and our MPs. And that is what we ourselves must contribute to a serious relationship with these institutions. However, I have seen, however, that the answers come more often when the institutions in question are clean or innocent or have something to boast about. When it's something that's controversial, then you answer it either late or they don't arrive at all or they're just pro forms. In that sense, I would remind, or update, and ask the Ministry of the Interior to update its response to my parliamentary question regarding the statement by former Interior Minister Herbert Kikla, who was still there at the end of September 2019, as part of their pre-election show, said - This is the first time I've said this, as Minister, I made a deal, i.e. a contract with Serbia, where people who get a negative response for asylum in Austria but cannot return to their countries are taken to Serbia. So those who get a negative response to an asylum request in Austria will be taken to Serbia, said former Interior Minister Herbert Kikl, that he has concluded a contract with Serbia. In this regard, I asked the Ministry of the Interior for an explanation, is there a contract, when it's concluded and what is it about? Without any drama or prejudge, it's obvious there's some kind of agreement. It is scandalous that the citizens of Serbia, the public of Serbia, and also the MPs, do not know about it. Maybe it's something good? Maybe it's something great for the state of Serbia, but I wouldn't say that. Or perhaps the Austrian minister made it up, which I wouldn't say, but it's not off. My second question, i.e. this was repeated, goes to the address of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Sports, and is related to the latest announcement of the other day by the Secretary-General of the Red Star Football Club, that the Red Star football club will start building a new stadium in two years, which would cost about 200m euros. So here's another stadium smiling at us. In addition to this famous national stadium for which, in my deep belief, there is no reason, no need, no financial justification, and a sports excuse not to talk, besides a national stadium, which would cost between 150m euros and as much as 250m euros, Mr. Terzic is now offering us a new stadium. Of course, he says that they will build that stadium, that construction will be provided, talk to potential investors, and it would all be nice and wonderful if they were building that stadium, or, my question -- are they building it out of their own money, supplies, or Mr. Terzic himself or the Red Star football club? Not by misery, then. But the trouble is, Mr. Terzic says the same time, I quote, "That's what I was talking about with the top of the state." First of all, we don't know exactly who the top of the country is, is it Anna Brnabic, perhaps, or Alexander Vukic? Who was that talking to Zvezdan Terzic about a new football stadium? So, past this national football stadium. If it's something that works and builds Mr. Terzic or the football club "Star" from its assets and loans, then I don't see what it takes to inform the top of the state, whoever it is? If, on the other hand, he expects help from the top of the state to build that stadium, and I said, this national is unnecessary, let alone a new one at Maracane's place. After all, this existing "Rajko Mitić" stadium is mostly empty, except for several times a year, and even these several times is half-empty because of the too high price for the population's paying power, in fact, inappropriate ticket prices. I expect an answer from the Prime Minister, or the Ministry of Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67034	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not understand anything about the previous speaker, and I am warning the Secretary of the Assembly to provide me with a translation into Serbian next time. My first question is also for the minister of sports - is there a stadium in Serbia that meets the increasingly strict conditions of FIFA and UEFA? Or are we going to be able to play international games as a football team and as football clubs in international competitions if we don't renovate those stadiums, build a new or thoroughly rebuild, in line with the latest UEFA and FIFA standards? My second question concerns Bojan Pitiæ, if I may ask. Bojan Pajtic built a castle in the municipality of Senta. I ask the authorities, SBPOK, UBPOK, or what is it called now, to check, since at the same time in Senti is a built hall, a sports hall, which cost three times the amount originally agreed, was there a money spill, and with what money did Bojan Pajtic build an object worth hundreds of thousands of euros? We know that this well-known professor, former Prime Minister of the duchy, had a salary of about a thousand marks. How did he manage, with what means, to build in a year an object worth hundreds of thousands of euros and which has a few hundred square meters if it has such income, and the facility is worth so much? Or, perhaps, by building a sports hall that cost three times as much as originally planned and arranged, was its building built, that is, its castle? My next question concerns the municipality of Trstenik, i.e. the Ministry of Police, to check the information whether it is true that the NGO, led by Miroslav Aleksic, followed by the authority of a lady who was called, appeared to me to be the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources, from the National Employment Service, led by Ljubisa Knezevic, his father-in-law, who was also the co-founder of the NGO, in the period 2009 to 2012, received a total sum of 55 million dinars on several occasions, which is 600 thousand euros in the course at the time? So, for which reasons these funds were allocated, as they were spent, were they spent in accordance with what the National Employment Service has standardized and that there is no conflict of interest when this Miroslav Aleksic allocates funds from the National Employment Service 55 million dinars and 600,000 euros to his brother-in-law, or himself, because they were both founders of an NGO called the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources or something like that. So, to thoroughly check it, i.e. if some other persons are allegedly paid out of this amount, the competent authorities will have a conversation with them, because there are indications that these funds are placed in the pockets of Ljubiša Knezevic, father-in-law of Miroslav Aleksic and him personally. As for the protest outside the RTS building, I ask the authorities to answer me if it is allowed and is the crime of preventing the person from working, or, since the journalists have been blocked, they have been prevented from having the right to work? Is it a crime and, if so, have measures been taken? My last question concerns the Ministry of Regional Development, that I have the answers that cooperatives are financially supported from that ministry, their headquarters, their home numbers and the total sums allocated to these cooperatives and under which regulation, since I need it for the work of the Committee on Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, and the Committee members know that they have repeatedly asked that, given that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Watermaking is responsible for all the issues in the area of agriculture, we are interested in which the cooperatives have received these funds, where is their headquarters and in what amounts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67036	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request word or notification and explanation in accordance with Article 287? Since no one's answering anymore, we'll continue with further work. We continue to work and move on to a common principled single search on the drafts of the law from paragraphs 13 to 19 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, Minister of Finance, Ljiljana Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and other associates. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principled search and a single search on the proposals of the agenda for items 13 to 19, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 13 to 19 of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67037	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, in the next few minutes I will present to you the key amendments to the draft laws on today's agenda. The first is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards the Slovak Republic. So, before you there is a bill of this law signed in Belgrade on 30 May 2019. The unregulated debt of the Republic of Serbia towards the Slovak Republic, which stood as an open issue for many years in the two countries' relations, stems from a period of clearing the way in which goods and services are paid between the former SFRY and the former CSFRJ. The adjustment of the debt of 85 million 970,000, 743,82 clearing dollars in favour of the former Czechoslovakia Federative Republic was defined on 22 October 1997. After years of negotiations, a final amount of debt was found to be seven million 209 000, 891,49 US dollars, which will be paid once in a period of 45 days from the date of entry into force of the interstate agreement on its regulation without paying interest in the period until the day of payment of the debt. It is practically reducing the obligation of the Republic of Serbia by about 70%. Financially speaking, an optimal deal has been reached. Today, it is also on the agenda of the law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States with a view to improving compliance and tax regulations at international level and applying FATF rules. The basic reason for confirming this Agreement is the fact that it prevents tax evasion from being avoided by American citizens or residents holding their financial resources in domestic financial institutions. The adoption of that law creates a predictable business environment by strengthening the institutional capacity of domestic tax authorities in order to protect the country's financial stability overall, but also enable new investments from the US. The draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also on the agenda. The deal was signed in Belgrade on 19 October 2019 during Russian Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev's official visit to our country, granting Serbia a state-owned export credit of 172.5m euros to finance projects in the railway infrastructure area. The export credit is granted worth 172m 500 000 euros, representing 75% of the project's value, while the Serbian side will provide cost coverage of up to 57m euros, i.e. 25% of the project's value from the Republic of Serbia's budget next fiscal year, successionally and according to the dynamics established by the special annexes of the contract to be concluded by the Serbian and Russian authorised organisation. The interest will be calculated from the date on which the credit is used and paid quarterlyly by applying a fixed interest rate of 2% per year, while the tightening interest rate will be 1% above the regular interest rate, which is 3% per year. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa. Belgrade and Raiffeisen banka a.d. Belgrade under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad under the Treaty on the Loan for the Construction of Divorce Gases Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, phase three. It's about the master's office, i.e. The natural gas pipeline Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, and the pipeline is high pressure that connects the area of southwestern Serbia, which currently does not have access to this energy, with the rest of the public-owned network "Srbigas". The Bank "Intesa" a.d. Belgrade, a loan totalling 16m euros, with an interest rate of three months and a fixed margin of 1.39%. Raiffeisen banka a.d. Belgrade credit totaling fourm euros, with an interest rate of three months and a fixed margin of 1.45% annually. In front of you today is the draft law confirming the financial agreement of the E-80 highway, Nis-Medara stock, phase 1, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of the EIB. That Treaty was signed in Belgrade on 12 September 2019 at the amount of 100m euros in accordance with the planned mandate set out in Article 3. Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. The loan funds will be used to finance the construction of about 32km of highway semi-profiles largely on the new route from the existing Merošina-Prokuplje loop on the highway E-75 to Beoljin municipality. You also have before you a draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security. The main objectives for the adoption of laws are to remove barriers to trade between the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, strengthen and establish closer economic relations between the two countries, improve the security of transport of goods by signatories, simplify and speed up customs procedures, use of reliefs in relation to customs controls and more favourable treatment regarding risk assessment and control. You also have before you the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements concerning the Funding Agreement, originally signed on 9 November 2016 between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank KFW, Frankfurt in Main, and a special financing agreement. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 30 July 2019. Under those agreements, a programme will be implemented to strengthen social infrastructure in municipalities affected by the migrant crisis. When it comes to information on this programme, strengthening social infrastructure in municipalities affected by the migrant crisis, the programme is in the restructuring phase. Infrastructure projects have not yet begun. The total programme is worth 20.8m euros. The German donation is totaling 11.931.434.97 euros, and our participation is 8.870,000 euros. Partners in the implementation of this project are the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which will coordinate, report and manage consultants, then the Office for Public Investment Management, which conducts infrastructure projects, as a key partner, ASB as a consultant for soft measures, Roma inclusions and migrants, and the ASB will also implement a special project aimed at training the unemployed population, especially Roma, in municipalities that participate in the programme to facilitate their integration into the labour market. Also, ASB will organise educational workshops to prevent early school leaving, as well as raise general knowledge such as knowledge of health, hygiene, civic education, etc., especially among the Roma population. AMBERO is a consultant for the reporting and visibility of the programme in charge of this project. The project consists of 25 infrastructure projects in municipalities affected by the migrant crisis, in municipalities populated mainly by Roma, returnees under readmission agreements. The plan provides for the restoration of 14 schools and three pre-school institutions, the construction of a dormitory for students in Vladic's Han, the construction of a children's daily centre with the need for additional support in Leskovac, the construction of three new infirmarys, then, the reconstruction of the Centre for Social Labour in Žabari, the construction of a daily centre for sensitive categories in Bačka Palanca, the construction of a safe house at the Leskovac Social Labour Centre. The duration of the programme is from the moment the National Assembly confirms the agreements by June 2022. The municipalities are Bačka Palanka, Beocin, Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Dimitrovgrad, Leskovac, Šid, Subotica, Vladicin Han, Surdulica, Vranje and Žabari. In the voting day, I call on you to support these agreements and I think they will certainly be something that will contribute, when it comes to our country and increase our reputation, but also directly when it comes to investment, to increasing the number of investments in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67038	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, colleague Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67039	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Minister Djordjevic and his associates, as you said yourself, today we have a set of financial agreements on the agenda that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded with several states and financial institutions, which the National Assembly should confirm. To begin with, I will say a few words about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Slovakia. Our country's unregulated debt to Slovakia has stood as an open issue for many years and stems from a period of the clearing way of paying for goods and services between the former SFRY and the former Czechoslovakia Federative Republic. An agreement between the SFRY and the Czechoslovakia Federative Republic, signed in 1991, abolished the clearing and then introduced a conversion method of payment. As you yourself said in the opening statement, following the disintegration of the two countries, the issue of regulating this debt was inherited by Serbia as the country's Successor and this debt of our country according to the Czech Republic is regulated by the agreement. The other state of the former Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, has accepted that according to the same model, it settles its share of the claim. For more than 25 years, this debt has burdened relations between the two countries, and thus, this agreement represents a significant step towards improving relations and new direction of bilateral co-operation in all areas of common interest. The second agreement I will also speak about today is the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government. It was concluded in order to improve the compliance of tax rules at international level and to implement FAFT rules that are actually U.S. regulations on the compliance of rules on foreign accounts and refers to American citizens who have bank accounts in Serbia. These regulations provide for foreign financial institutions to participate through reporting to prevent tax avoidance by US citizens or residents holding their financial assets in non-American financial institutions and foreign accounts. The signing of this agreement will ensure the effective application of tax rules that will be brought into line with international ones, so Serbia will work together with the United States to facilitate international harmonisation of tax laws, which at the same time leads to the strengthening of the institutional capacity of domestic tax authorities in order to ensure Serbia's overall financial stability. I would also refer to a minor agreement between our country and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit. It is a development loan that will improve the railway infrastructure in Serbia, and the Russian Federation has traditionally provided significant financial support to our country for the implementation of the railway infrastructure project. This time, it is about an agreement concerning financing the modernisation of the railway shares of Stara Pazova-Novi Sad and Valjevo-Vrbnica, the state border with Montenegro, as well as the construction of a single railway dispatch centre in Serbia. All of this should contribute to the further development of rail traffic in Serbia, which is one of the cheapest ways of transporting passengers and goods, still on an underdeveloped level because, we will agree that there was not much investment in railways in Serbia's interior. This time, Serbia is taking a five-year loan to be paid back in 20 equal wars. This loan will finance 75% of the value of this contract on the supply of goods, the provision of works and the provision of services for the design and construction of the electrical infrastructure for the shares to which this agreement applies. Also, the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has concluded a financial agreement with the European Investment Bank, which will finance the construction of the E80 highway, a Nis-Medara share. It's phase one. The construction of this highway is important not only for the development of the economy and the integration of Serbia's district with Kosovo and Metohija, but also is important because of the fact that building this part of Serbia provides a faster way out of the sea. So this highway is important for connecting different points of our region and will be of great importance for improving transport connections in rail, road and water transport. This way and this construction will connect half a million citizens living in Pirotski, Nisavska and Toplička district and will connect with Nis, which will further infrastructureally and economically connect this part of Serbia with southern districts, Jablanski and Pcinjska further to Northern Macedonia and Greece. Thus, the realisation of this infrastructure project in economic and political terms should contribute in a concrete way to our country's overall economic and social progress. The previous infrastructure project is related in a certain way to the following agreement, which is the agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised operators for security and security, which will create unequivocally better business opportunities for the transport of goods to both countries. First of all, by improving the safety of the traffic of goods entering and leaving the territory of foreign signatories, without disrupting trade flows. Also, the agreement will contribute to removing barriers to trade between us. By the way, our two countries and peoples are connected by a long historical tradition. We are also sharing a vision of a common future in the European family, so that this agreement is another step in good co-operation between the two countries, which is seen also by the "small Schengen", which the states of the signatories have committed to working towards improving regional co-operation, in order to increase economic growth, attract investment and raise the quality of life of citizens. I would draw particular attention to the importance of confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Funding Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank of KFW from Frankfurt in May. We know that Europe, therefore our country, has been facing a growing number of migrants for several years, more precisely since 2014. Compared to other countries on the transit route, Serbia has managed to accept a large number of migrants and organise reception centres and health care to take care of children and families in the short term. I note that the most endangered categories are women and children, and among the migrants were children without a parent's escort, who were particularly taken care of. This very sensitive group of people, who are physically exhausted, psychologically traumatized or sick, had a need, above all, for health care and protection. At this point, there are 19 reception centers in our country, 17 of which are active. In 2015, to help the Republic of Serbia handle migrants, an international protocol has been concluded between the government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on financial co-operation and the improvement of social infrastructure in local self-government units, cities and municipalities affected by the migrant crisis. Meanwhile, the need for amendments to the Treaty on the Financing of the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank has been observed and the agreement is now on the agenda. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the granting of state guarantees to the public company "Srbigas", based on a loan contract for the construction of a divorce pipeline, Alexandrovac-Brus-Kopalnik-Raška and Novi Pazar-Tutin, it is the third phase. It should be said that it is an infrastructure project of national importance as part of the realisation of Serbia's gasification project Turkey's flow, which I deeply believe we all support. All the projects I've been talking about, but this too, my colleagues will talk about next session. I will eventually, estimating that agreements that will finance important infrastructure projects, and thus strengthen Serbia's development and economic position in the region, will say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67040	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67041	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party has, as always, carefully analysed all legislative proposals, or laws that deal with the confirmation of the international Treaties of the Republic of Serbia, and we will pay a little more attention to some, a little less. Basically, these agreements, which are the subject of today’s debate, have nothing that could be called ugly. The more question is whether certain things had to be regulated in such a way, i.e. when it comes to agreements leading to the financing of certain things by increasing or reducing the debt of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there could be discussions on whether some infrastructure projects are a priority or not. However, here we have finished agreements and the whole point is to see what we get from them, like the Republic of Serbia, whether we could do something better and whether what is behind these agreements is what is the deepest interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of whether these citizens are people who are liberals, peoples or left-wings in their nature. When it comes to investment projects, strangely similar criteria are used when measured by an investment archaic which is good and what is bad. I would start from what is something that has long been controversial in the part of our public, so compared to the idea that Serbia should restore sovereignty over its certain parts in full capacity, we had the idea that in the same place we should build a wall and that people from Kosovo and Metohija should not be allowed to come slowly to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this is about the draft law confirming the Financial Agreement for the E80 Highway, Nis-Merdare Stock, Phase 1, by the European Investment Bank. If we were very often, when we made some investments in the Republic of Serbia, when we were getting funding, we could say whether it could have been cheaper, whether we used exotic investors who didn't care much about some of the things that some investors who are more famous, or whether they're more famous in the world, such as European institutions, such as the IMF, such as the World Bank, such as the IBRD, in this case, when it comes to credit for building a section of the highway from Nis to the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija, we can say that for the first time we received a solid element of the gift, and when we observe the terms of that loan. It also tells us that there is an interest in the relevant part of the international community that simply some things, which have been bad in the past, are being ironed out in some way, by investing in infrastructure and bringing together citizens of Serbia with Serbs in Cosmet, as well as citizens of Serbia and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. The highways are a good way to do it. Increased economic co-operation is one of the best ways for people to reconcile with each other or to realize that through trade, through investment, through free flow of people, goods and capital we can do much to iron out some bad things that have happened in the past when it comes to the relations of Serbs and Albanians. For years we liked to talk about how Serbia was a crossroads, but we had this problem that we had no roads. For years we've talked about how we should integrate with our people or with our close peoples, but that integration didn't happen when you watched what infrastructure looked like. Although we say that Republika Srpska, as part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is closest to all of us, we have not built roads that could make that proximity real, nor have we tried to reduce the possibilities for us to have barriers at border crossings and that these borders only exist on paper, and that honest people cross them very quickly, especially people who deal in business, to slave, service, capital goes as quickly as possible, without any obstacles. If we are not able to have this kind of relationship with our neighbours, I don't know what we would even be looking for in the EU. The same thing applies when it comes to the highway to Kosovo and Metohija. It's just that we're full of mouths having our people down there living hard, and then when you go to Pristina, it takes you five hours. So now you can get to Thessaloniki faster than you can get to Pristina. The roads that lead us there are not roads we can be proud of. The Nis is fine, and after Nis, that road is bad. Let's not talk about that variant that you're going from Krushevac, so you're going down on Bruce. So, if we want to connect our people in Kosovo, but I repeat, we care about the entire Kosovo market, the highway can be valuable, the highway is an economic instrument. What's good in Serbia, like the intersections of roads, which has probably the largest number of countries with which it borders, or one territory that currently has, which is under de chasing our sovereignty, but where unfortunately our sovereignty hangs on one end, there's nothing better... When we build roads to the countries that surround us, we actually build roads to areas that probably wouldn't get it. If it were just the development of the Toplice it might be an overinvestment, a three-track highway would be enough, and now we'll get better. The same is true when it comes to the highway to Bulgaria, because Piroth would never get the highway if Serbia were not on the border and not bordering with so many countries. The same is true of both Vranje and many parts of the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing we finally go and continue to use this so many times-repeated story that Serbia is in the middle of the road, that all interests are being broken, so let's see if we can get something out of it and work wisely. Probably better than this, probably better deals can be ironed. The good development of the economy would thus eliminate the many skeptics that exist around the volume of traffic today in five, ten years. So when it comes to building highways, we don't share highways according to which country they're headed. We have no prejudice, and we think Serbia must have the best relations with all neighbours. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, which is not our neighbour, but is part of the Republic of Serbia, we think we should have all the conditions to achieve our greatest soft power there, since we unfortunately lost our hard power by using it badly in the 1990s. We should use soft power, as much as we can, and try to be a Serbia that is attractive, not a Serbia that is trying to be a Serbia force, because the force, unfortunately, is not enough, and perhaps fortunately, because new wars, so-called, will be led by intelligence and economy. When it comes to other international agreements, I will immediately move towards what is very controversial with us, which is the point of the 19th and the spread of fear that Serbia will become a pool for migrants, that all migrants will put in Serbia and that they will make something very ugly from us and from our country. For us xenophobia of this guy was never unique, even during the Cold War we were wide open to receive refugees from Hungary, for example, when times were hard and when Hungary was attacked and victimized by the aggression of the Soviet Union. We've accepted them as our brothers, and that's how we should treat everyone else. It is also logical, of course, that Serbs, who were in the 1990s, were admitted to Serbia in an adequate manner. There is no reason to be inhumane towards people who are running from war, especially towards people who absolutely have absolutely no desire to stay in Serbia, because we did not make it good enough for anyone to really want to stay in Serbia next to all EU countries, which does not mean that we should not work on making our country better every day, and it will be better if we develop it in reason rather than madness. We should also try, if there is someone who fits in with his profile in the Republic of Serbia, that we keep such persons, because not only did people who do not have qualifications, people who are poor, but also wealthy people went through Serbia with great knowledge that, perhaps, if they were given the right support, they would want to stay. It's not a key question that breaks with us. The key question is, I say, which is not based on a meeting of fears that all migrants will end up in Serbia and give us money to become some kind of reservoir. It is simply not true, and especially given that geostrategic things are ending, that the war in Syria has ended and that we can hardly expect new waves of migration, but we can expect that most of the people who fled from Syria are slowly returning to their homeland. On the other hand, it is good to use the money that we have received precisely because we have treated people who have crossed Serbia, that we have listed everyone who has come and crossed Serbia and that we have simply been a good partner to our future European home. Many countries that entered the European Union at a time of great optimism proved to be partners who were in a hurry, as partners of the form. We are partners of the form in some other areas, but when it comes to cooperation in the area of security, when it comes to co-operation on the flow of people, we have proved to be a better partner than many other countries, and we are other people, and that is very important. And it has nothing to do with who's going to lead Serbia today, who ran it yesterday, who's going to lead it tomorrow, because once you're inhumans, it's a permanent seal, especially when you're inhumans, and there's no real danger to your country. What's also important, which is not the most connected to this, remains the full right to distinguish economic migrants from those who run away because of war and terror, and we should always work on it and it's not disputed. If people from Syria come to us because they were victims of persecution, it doesn't have to be true if people from Iran or Afghanistan come to us, if there really isn't an objective basis for terror in those countries, and then we can think about different mechanisms. However, how can I say, let's get back to it, we've done our part of the job. That part of the job cost money. We are a country that is relatively much poorer than the countries that were the goal of people and have transited through Serbia and on this side the flow of money that we will get because of the services that we have done and that we should certainly do not get that money, because we are people, as much as we are poorer than Germany and the Netherlands and most of the countries in the European Union, actually than all the countries that are in the European Union, that doesn't mean that we need to be bad people, because you don't need it, and neither should our country be that way. When it comes to these other agreements that are not so controversial and which have no way to say, such a distinct potential that they are misread in public and used for the ground floor political campaign, which is a great pity, we can say that any agreement that regulates the issue of debt, if the agreement is a well-negotiated good thing. When it comes to the debt regulation agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovakia, the agreement is much better negotiated, for example, than when we think of some other variants of debt, such as the Agreement with the Paris Club when we didn't have a mild relationship as a state, what we negotiated. It's a good thing we've been making progress for years, not to turn out to be monkeys who don't know the difference between debt, interest and manuals that appear in all these negotiations and when we don't have a clear information base that we're even negotiating. Slovak debt is never, i.e. The debt of the Republic of Serbia to Slovakia has never been too great, but it is fundamentally good that we are making progress in the whole matter of regulating our debts both towards bilateral partners and international organisations, so that on this side it is always good when you have clean bills, regardless of who made and when the bill, because the state is, that many often forget in their politics, something that is going on, which is going to last, what will be adopted today will be a commitment for both 10 and 20 years, if the state signs it, regardless of who will lead Serbia, as well as what Broz and Milosevic did and what the DOS has done and what the government led the advances did. It'll be a commitment in the future. It may also be useful, but there is a commitment, but the only thing that is permanent is the state, and we should never forget it when we consider these things. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States is something that, I would say, is an asymmetric issue and we need to be aware of that when in international relations we conclude agreements that we are a partner of equal strength and that many things must be accepted as given. Most often when we make appropriate agreements with the United States sometimes we simply have to accept some things as such. It's starting with when in our own bank we're running around asking if you've got anything to do with the United States. There, that's just it. It is very important for them to charge all the taxes they have, it is very important for them to protect the interests of their national security and expect countries that want to be their good allies, partners to meet certain conditions. On this side, all that does not lead to our national interests being driven into a triangle – the governments of rights, human rights, market economy and democracy, are at risk of things that we will agree on in the future for the sake of being part of an international big deal dealing with issues that define Fatfa regulations, and on that side we will still have a lot of agreements that will come to us and are currently related to bilateral relations between the United States and also relations with international organisations that cover similar issues. On the other hand, essentially, this is something we should have done as simple as Serbia, and it's better that we did and something that we accept as essentially given, as much in international relations we accept as given we can accept, and we can't accept it. Only the most common price of not accepting is quite high. When it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Balkans, we have lived, a torn Balkans since the break-up of the former Yugoslavia with an envious degree of mutual racing, an enviable degree of absence of desire for small and dismembered and powerless markets from the point of view of economy and scope, from the point of view of everything we need to be competitive in the 21st century, to try to slowly remove, to remove each other's borders, and in particular to remove each other's borders, how to say, but fundamentally, that we have unsettled regulations in some areas or that we do not want to recognise the relevant documents of other countries, although these documents in its contents have almost identical what the documents of the Republic of Serbia have. On the other hand, it is a big job that we will have to do, but again, if we are not able to do this job with Macedonia, Albania, I hope in the future with BiH, with KIM, and with Montenegro, then the question is, how are we going to do it with EU countries, if we are not able to remove borders and all obstacles to creating an ununited market, but to create something that looks like a customs union in the years ahead? This should not be seen as a substitute for something that is a superior solution, but it should be viewed as a way to speed things up and to show in practice that we are frames like a country to do things. All things, such as integrated border crossings, recognition of documentation, free flow of people, goods, capital, services and knowledge, are things that are in the deepest interest of the Republic of Serbia. These are good things for the simple reason that Serbia, which can say for itself and not say for itself clearly today, and it does not clearly show its policies, Serbia that can say for itself that European Serbia and global Serbia and Serbia would be a country that shows confidence. It's a country that thinks it can get more, that it can compete well on a big market. In one big market, small countries can get many, although they do very little, and countries that want to close, if they are small, and who defend their small market in fear of being swallowed big, although Serbia is neither within the scope of three statistical errors for the EU, show cowardice and in fact send a message that our citizens are not able to compete, that our companies are not able to make good products and services. A country that closes or a country that won't say it's closing, but all it does is stay closed is a country that sends a message that its citizens are essentially incapable of competing, which is not true. We look at sports, look at areas like information technologies, and you'll see that we can compete. We're somewhere first, somewhere in the second league, somewhere third, but we're playing. Sometimes we're better, sometimes we're worse. On the other hand, everything that opens us, everything that tracks the path of European Serbia, and not only about the values that are important, such as democracy, human rights and freedoms, but about one big market that becomes a Serbian national, all that tracks the way to global Serbia that competes anywhere are good things, even if it was small things with Macedonia and that God is lucky that 10 such agreements are adopted every day in our Parliament and that we create conditions that we have a country that knows that competes, which has the courage to compete and does not deal with foolish things from the past that can't be corrected, but wants to step into the future by being brave, not a country that's afraid to step forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67042	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67043	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, as authorized in front of our United Peasant Party MP club, the People's Peasants' Party, I will talk about these proposals for an agreement that we are talking about today and that we will verify tomorrow and give our country the opportunity to provide better living conditions for all of our citizens living in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. I have always talked about all of our issues and problems concerning small environments, undeveloped municipalities, mountain-mounted areas, southeast Serbia, and other parts of Serbia, where we have provided much more quality conditions through the adoption of certain agreements, credit lines that have really produced results, and now our state of Serbia, our budget is stable and has the opportunity to work and to build. We are witnessing works in every part of our Republic of Serbia. Is it north, whether it's east, whether it's west, whether it's south, whether central Serbia, is being built everywhere, working everywhere, and doing something that hasn't even been announced in years. It was in some fairy tales of some previous authorities that worked not for Serbia's sake, but for the benefit of only their own personal interests and for the benefit of their narrow-minded party interests. We are witnessing the collapse of our country of Serbia after 2000, when the mouth was filled with promises of all the positive things, the construction of roads, streets, improvements in the lives of our people living in the country, improvements in life for everyone, but we have come to the conclusion that cataclysm has occurred both in the economy and in agriculture and everywhere. So now these agreements that we're verifying here, we're giving support here in the Assembly, these agreements are giving us the opportunity to get certain things that have been started so far in some previous period, that this has to be a little balanced, to solve for the future of our children and children. Regarding this agreement with Slovakia, it is this credit line that gives the possibility to deal more favourably with these problems, to save and, normally, to increase the support of our budget, the stability of monetary and all that is important. As far as the deal with the United States is concerned, there are some things that work out, they agree, because we as a country have always looked to be for the good of everyone. Normally, by agreeing, we will have the opportunity to improve some things and in some ways have a normal relationship with the strongest country in the world, normally together with Russia. Another thing about these agreements is the support of our agreement with the Russian Federation, where the construction of the railway is. I also spoke back in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and after that I talked about the problems of the railway line concerning this part of southeastern Serbia, i.e. the part of eastern Serbia from Nis, Svrljig, Književec, towards Prahov, where there were a number of negative things and jumping cars and rails, where there were a number of incidents, and all because that railway was in a catastrophic state, because the railway was built in the last century, where Milutin Milankovic, a man who was really our great expert, a man who made a great contribution to development not only in Serbia, but also in the whole world, where bridges were built in that part, it was 1915 and 1916, when the railway was designed for 80 kilometers an hour for these trains. After that, nothing was invested, nothing was done, and we testified, we came to the conclusion that she was in a catastrophic state. Now, gentlemen, my dear and dear friends, that railroad is reconstructed, that railroad is being put into projected condition, that railroad will be something in the next period, for example, where it will be able to function as an economy, in a function of agriculture, in a function of tourism, in the function of transporting passengers. I think that's what we stand for, what this government stands for, and what our president of Serbia stands for, who is really like a hat on all of us here trying to provide everyone with what they need, which is a better life, a safer life and a safer future for everyone in Serbia. As far as this agreement of ours is concerned about crediting the construction of the railway line, that's what it takes, that we have high-speed railways in each part of it. I am talking about this part of the southeast of Serbia, and that applies to the rest of Serbia, because in every place, every passenger who wants to use the railway will have a safe opportunity to make it quality trains, be it faster and cheaper. I am now calling on fellow MPs who were not there for us in southeastern Serbia almost, or who once traveled along the track, to come and see how the railway is being reconstructed, how it is done in the best way and where there is already one part of the hard part of the railway that is in the part of Svrlig, that is so-called. The niche ravine, which is where it's reached, continues to work. Otherwise, the big thing for all of us is that our country's activity for those high-speed railways, for the reconstruction of the railways, because really Serbia is a hub of roads, a traffic station, and Nis is one of the most important hubs where all the necessary things from the railways pass. There is now also a airport which is very frequent, where within our airport, the title is the state of Serbia, really works in the best way, where there are a number of these flights that are very high-quality, low-priced, and can go to almost every place in Europe, but also in the world. As a folk MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, I have repeatedly talked about all these things, I have talked about the development of infrastructure with an emphasis on these areas with difficult living conditions, on Nis as the centre of Yugoslav Serbia. We are witnessing that from Nis a large number of roads lead both highways now and towards Greece, towards Bulgaria, and now these railway lines are being made, the railway infrastructure is being done and there is a shift of the railway station from Nis itself, which is all the great incentive for the development of the Nisa district, that part of southeastern Serbia, and the region. Through Nis and near Nis, we now have fast traffic, as I said, there's this airport of ours that's really the best thing about us. There was now almost one passenger for the past few months, or 400 thousand passengers were at the airport, which means that the airport is slowly, but certainly giving what it is prepared for, gives great power to develop the southeastern region of Serbia, where there is indeed a great chance that a large number of businessmen are coming. Back then, I was also an official delegation of our Assembly as president of the Communist Club of Friendship with Slovenia, where together with colleagues from our parliamentary club Hadzhi Milorad Stosic and Dr Svetlana, who is there, we were on a tour, where we were together with our friends from Slovenia and we discussed all these necessary things concerning both our countries Serbia and Slovenia. We are witnessing that this friendship has shown a lot of investment and that the state of Slovenia wants to help us with these EU-related phases, but this is always said, and that is what I wanted to say, that the airport and airport in Ljubljana have good co-operation, that a large number of people come from Slovenia to Nis and other parts of Serbia, where investors and tourists are coming and where through this joint programme of Serbia and Slovenia, here, it is now the 17th joint session of the Government of Serbia and the Government of Slovenia in Novi Sad, which is another sign of how it should be done, how friends should be respected. We had government sessions together with Hungary, where their government representatives were with us and we were with them. These are all elements as our country opens Serbia, how such agreements produce results, how through a programme of road construction, highways, railway construction, the adoption of certain acts and agreements that allow some credit lines to be depreciated in some way, extend with lower interest. The result is that people in Serbia have the opportunity to live better, to provide more resources, as I always say, for undeveloped areas, to separate more funds for all our women in the country, for children in the country, for couples in the country, to provide greater financial support because this way, when we adopt these agreements, will have a greater frequency of traffic, not just passengers, but also goods. It is a great opportunity to ensure a better future for every citizen, wherever he lives here in Serbia. I always say I'm from Srlig, because I think every one of us who doesn't have to be ashamed of where it comes from, but should say with a dick coming from a place like that, that's why I always talk like that. Sometimes I'm funny and a lot of people kind of deny it, and I'm not saving myself, and I always want to talk about my end at all times, about the problems of my end. But when I talk about the problems of this small municipality, which is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, Srvljig, then I am talking about a large number of such municipalities that are in Serbia, close to 40, perhaps 50, these are areas of the fourth group of underdeveloped areas, where I, by my engagement, proposes and here at congregation meetings, always speak and present problems concerning such municipalities, such as our people, and atrocity of such municipalities is located in southeastern Serbia where Nis is the centre of southeast Serbia, and that is why I say, and we all know that Nis is the hub of large roads, road, railways and a great need to invest there. We are witnessing that there are a lot of investments, specifically through the economy, investment in the economy, which is good and which is great, which is what a large number of our people are now working in Nis, with that it would be good that in the future when all of this is solved in the best way, as I was talking about building these roads, railways, highways, which I will talk about later, specifically for the construction of pipelines, borrowing and this agreement. These are all positive things where it will be needed to be, not just for Nis and the environment, but for all Serbia. In particular, I mean, about this section around the railroad, I call on all people to get to Nis very quickly, they can get to the airport of some flight, come to Nis to see the quality roads that were made, these are highways towards Sofia that are really very nice, done in the best way. Yes, they were heavy shares, but it was over and it was done during our government and during our President Vukic, who really showed that by his engagement, by his power, will, and most of his diligence he set an example, and on the other hand, Mr. Vukic as president of Serbia, he had a hat and an umbrella that was said for all of us here in some way because his engagement shows that everyone should work for what he received support, he was given responsibility from the people. We here, who are in the Assembly, as MPs, have no privileges, but we have a responsibility and a commitment to every citizen, so no matter what part of the Republic of Serbia is there, whether any religion, any thinking, we have an obligation to these people, and in every way every one of us gets up in the morning, when we look in the mirror to say if we helped someone yesterday, did the purpose of it, the result of that is that citizens recognize it, and citizens know how they have to understand and have to accept certain things because it's a real state. I've always been for it, and I've talked about it in a period and now, and before, that all that we're doing right now, and infrastructure is a prerequisite for bringing investors, for developing all those areas and businesses and agriculture. Agriculture is what we talk about most, but really, the situation in agriculture isn't as great as someone says it is, but on the other hand, we have a lot of positive things to talk about. About that part about agriculture, I've always been and talked about and when I was once president of the Srlig municipality, I've always watched people get basic things, which means, from the local budget, what's real to do. On the other hand, the creation of our agreements when we do, when all that results, I know there will be great savings, opportunities to be in such environments as my municipality, and I come from Srljig and that part and those municipalities in south-east Serbia, but also in other parts, which are underdeveloped, need to be more isolated there through a programme of an investment national plan that will be very important to all of us. We have problems, specifically related to water supply, let's say this is a particular problem for asbestos pipes. Through all these programmes, the projects that the Serbian state will now have in the next period, our need will be met, with all of us who run these local self-government in some way participating in the government, we have responsibility. We need to prepare adequate projects and make sure that all of them are monitored in time. By adopting these agreements now on the agenda, it is possible to save funds, to secure fast roads, to bring in more goods, passengers, means of transport, and in this way we will certainly have the opportunity to provide more resources and to provide more investment in these environments, to solve these water supply problems, to solve these previous asbestos pipes that exist in some cities, and there are many municipalities, and this was done in the 1980s, in the 1970s. The problems are really big there. There's a large population of old people out there. We have to provide these people with a safer future, and we can only do that when we have more resources and we have those resources to invest more there, to ensure that there's a normal possibility at any time, that these people are taken care of, that there's an ambulance, that there's at least one student in every village that this department still exists, that we don't close down there departments, that we don't close schools. Every student in that village while he's there has a future. By investing in every newborn child, and I have always said this to be a much bigger investment and that there is a difference for mountainous and mountainous areas, undeveloped areas, devastated areas, that investments for these families are financially much larger, that they are direct investments. I'm sure that'll give us a score. As for the economy, through the adoption of these agreements, we also have the possibility for a greater number of people to be employed, a safer job. It is, for example, an agreement between Serbia and Northern Macedonia where these economic operators can in some ways be safe, to be for the benefit of everyone. Normal investment and the possibility of investing in municipalities such as these undeveloped, devastated, fourth group of underdevelopment, through certain direct releases of our business entities who want to work through the programme. One of the proposals was that, and that was me in the Assembly, when it was for tax relief, he made a proposal to be up to 80% on the gross amount to release economic operators who want to work in municipalities that are devastated, that is the fourth group of underdevelopment. To return these funds to them, it is a mandatory contribution to the burden of the employer, on the burden of the employee, and that employer tomorrow if he opens up jobs in these environments such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Bolovac, Babusnica and a large number of such municipalities, that they can have, to be bound, to be the minimum wage of 45,000 up. On the other hand, it would also be good for the employer, the state of Serbia would have the opportunity through this tax release programme to keep people working there, to bring investors in and only to those areas that are underdeveloped, fourth group and devastated. I think these are positive things, through these agreements we have the opportunity to save it and to provide more resources, but on the other hand, in particular, here we have now come to this part of the construction of the first phase of the Nis – Merdare highway. For me as a man living in that part of Serbia, it's a big deal, it's a great thing, because building that part of the highway, the possibility of getting to the destination as fast as possible, that our businessmen arrive tomorrow. We are witnessing that a large number of our businesses from all over Serbia are working both in Albania and working down in Kosovo, where there are investments, where there is goods traffic, with this abnormal thing, a 100% tax that the Kosovo authorities have previously brought, it is not normal, it must now be withdrawn because it is also their obligation. On the other hand, we are witnessing that as far as they're concerned down in Kosovo that these people who do this will go the worst way because it's negative first for them, because it's not good for them either, and it's especially not good for our people who live down in Kosovo and Metohija. By building a piece of this highway from Nis towards Merdar, and later on towards Pristina, it will be a great thing so we will have the opportunity to get to Nis, to do faster traffic and traffic of goods, to provide more resources for the employment of people and normally for all of us it is a big deal and a great possibility that people living in that part of Toplice, that these people tomorrow have the opportunity to place their goods, their agricultural products. We're witnessing that there's quality and as far as cattle and sheep and fruit growing... (President: I thank you, colleague Miletic.) I think he's fine. All these agreements need to be accepted, to bring everyone together, because these are solutions for the better future of our people, for the better future of our children and children of our children. Once again, as President of the United Peasants' Party and People's MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and member of the Socialist Movement Parliament Club, the People's Peasants' Party - the United Peasants' Party, I will vote for a set of all these agreements, because they are excellent agreements and because it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67044	Thank you. Honorable MPs, according to article 27 and Article 87. 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67045	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing proposals for laws that I can freely say are indicators of the government's responsible policy of the Republic of Serbia. As we had the opportunity to hear in the opening statement by the minister, but also by authorised representatives from other parliamentary groups, today we have five draft laws on the confirmation of the agreement, one draft law on the confirmation of the financial contract and one proposal for a guarantee law. Since the moment the SNS took over in 2012, thanks to the overwhelming support of Serbian citizens, our representatives in the government, together with the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, have been struggling with all the problems left by the Democrats. Of course, I mean the Democrats who beat and insult women today, I mean the Democrats who threaten underage children, the Democrats who destroy public goods. By 2012, those Democrats who told us in the pre-election campaigns about equal regional development, and when the elections passed, were in practice showing us how to destroy all regions in Serbia. By 2012, Democrats who today were colored in some Alliance for Serbia, who are now allegedly fighting for freedom of the media, while at the same time blocking the work of individual media that they do not like. Serbia's radio-television, it seems to me to have been an excellent television show when Mr. Dragan Gilas was assembling millions by trading for seconds, and now that same RTS is reporting visits to all world officials, reporting on highway construction, building clinical centres, building schools, etc., now that RTS is not a good television. Serbia was not destroyed by civil wars from the 1990s, nor sanctions, nor hyperinflation, how far the Democrats destroyed Serbia by 2012, which I repeat once again are now colored in some Alliance for Serbia. You know, it's really hard to explain to underage children when we go past a set of 30 circuses with a transparent "Vučić or Democracy", it's hard to explain what democracy is. Well, even those underage kids who don't have election rights are choosing Wolf. Imagine the frightened children in those 30 circuses to answer questions at school by their teachers, teachers or kindergarten teachers asking what democracy is? We can only assume. Insulting, thieving, economic growth in the minus, a huge budget deficit, the likeness of all those who ruled Serbia by 2012, who showed us that no macro-economic policy, no foreign policy should be guided, while the synonym for SNS and for today's government is economic growth and development. Today, we have agreements on the agenda concerning improving bilateral relations with neighbouring countries, agreements that include construction of both railway and road infrastructures, then agreements on the agenda concerning strengthening social infrastructure, we even have construction of pipelines in southwestern Serbia and so on. Ten days ago, works began to build a fast traffic station Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, in the length of 77 kilometers, on Sunday, 15 December, began with the construction of the Moravski Corridor, while tomorrow it will be released into the works of Miloš Veliki highway, from Surcin to Obrenovac. Even four agreements with today's agenda concern the construction of road infrastructure. All agreements on the agenda reflect Serbia's huge progress. We, SNS MPs, often say that by 2012, the state was over-indebted and that the public debt was moving up to as much as 78% of GDP. This would not be so terrible that the previous government was in debt under favourable conditions and that the previous government was taking credit for the realisation of infrastructure projects. However, the previous government was tasked abroad to service public enterprises' debts, to pay pensions and salaries, even for fronts, and they took expensive loans at interest rates of 7% and 8%. On the one hand, they could not get favourable loans because Serbia's credit rating was negative, while on the other hand, investing in loans to service public enterprises' debts and for other purposes that do not bring revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget is really insane. Today, thanks to fiscal consolidation, thanks to fiscal discipline, a fiscal surplus of 3.2% of GDP in 2017 and 2018, and 1% of GDP for the first ten months of 2019, thanks to the continued strengthening of all macroeconomic indicators by all international rating agencies, Serbia's credit rating is assessed positively, and this means that we will be able to raise favourable loans in the next period, with low interest rates for the implementation of infrastructure projects. While the previous government repeatedly owed the state, leaving us and our children all these accumulated debts, they did not allow themselves to try to service their debts, let alone debts from the 1990s, those older and not to mention. That is why we have today on the agenda a draft law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Slovakia. So, our government, thanks to the passionate public finances, will serve a debt to the Slovak Republic dating back to 1991. The former SFRY's debt to the Czechoslovakia Republic totalling 85,970,743 US dollars was to be settled by 31 January 1994, but due to all the difficulties and economic and political ones of the 1990s due to sanctions, hyperinflation, civil wars and so on, this debt has not been settled. Not to mention the previous government. As their black debt settlement, they just watched what they could grab for themselves. However, the adoption of a bill confirming the agreement will serve the government of the Republic of Serbia a total debt to the Slovak Republic. Following the disintegration of the Federal Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the implementation of the key to the division of obligations between the former republics, Serbia inherited a debt of $24.726.927 from the US. After negotiations between the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic, an optimal agreement has been reached and a modified model of the Paris Club is agreed, which implies a one-time write-off of the total debt of as much as 66%, so that the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Slovak Republic is reduced to 7.209.891 US dollar. The funds were provided in the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget. Our state's debt settlement will improve bilateral co-operation with the Slovak Republic, the foreign trade exchange will intensify and we will have a greater inflow of Slovak investment in our country. When it comes to confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States with a view to improving the compliance of tax rules at international level by applying the FATKA rules, it is about improving relations between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. After the adoption and entry into force of this Agreement, our country will join a group of as many as 110 countries that work intensively together with the United States to bring tax legislation into line internationally. In fact, the United States launched FATKA regulations ten years ago and the FATKA regulations predict foreign financial institutions to participate in reporting and avoiding tax payments by US citizens and US companies holding their financial assets in accounts in non-American financial institutions. The Serbian side will obtain the right to ask the US for data on its taxpayers after the agreement was adopted. The non-confirmation of the agreement could jeopardise existing potential US investments, which is certainly not the goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is an agreement signed on 19 October at the official visit of Russian Federation Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev to our country. What is important is to note that the Republic of Serbia has settled all debts towards the Russian Federation and thus we have obtained conditions for signing this agreement. Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia was granted a state-owned export credit by the Russian Federation of 172.500,000 euros by applying a fixed interest rate at an annual level of 2%. The funds will be used to finance railway infrastructure projects. That, by the way, is 75% of the total value of the project. The Serbian side has committed to providing 57,500,000 euros, representing the remaining 25%. Credit funds are intended to pay the goods delivered and provide services to build electrical infrastructure on railway shares and Stara Pazova - Novi Sad, railway Belgrade - Bar, Valjevo - Vrbnica, construction of a dispatch train management centre in our country. So, another extremely favourable loan, three new infrastructure projects. So, we're going to get a fast car, we're going to get a fast track, we're going to cut travel time, we're going to increase traffic safety, and that's going to lower transport costs. At the beginning of the presentation, I was saying that there seemed to be a balanced regional development in the regime of the previous government, while these agreements we are discussing today show what regional development in the direction of the SNS looks like. So in all regions of Serbia, it equally invests. It is now on the agenda and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa. Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka A. d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad on the basis of a loan contract for construction of nothing less than a divorce pipeline and on the shares of Alexandrovac-Brus – Kopalnik – Raška - Novi Pazar - Tutin. The credit is 20 million, but it doesn't matter how important it is that this part of Serbia is connected, or connected to the pipeline network. The bathroom is one of the favorite tourist destinations for all lovers of extreme snow sports and for all mountain tourism lovers, and given that the Kopalnik and national park, this project is even more important in terms of environmental protection. In my opinion, one of the perhaps most important agreements on the agenda is the draft law we are discussing today, as regards the financial contract for the construction of the highway E-80 shares of Nis-Medara, the first phase. I may not be objective enough when I say that this is one of the most important points of the agenda, since I come from Toplice, but what is certainly important is that I am a living witness that the previous government destroyed this part of Serbia, or Toplice. Well, the Democrats closed three factories and the Zubor Hotel in Kursumlijska Banja in 2003-2009 alone, not to mention the other municipalities of the Toplic district, not to mention Prokuplje, Žitoraj, Blace, where they sythically destroyed everything that could have been destroyed, where public enterprises and local self-government were over-indebted. They've put us in a position where one Poduje has more inhabitants than the entire Toplice. When I hear from some colleagues that the construction of this highway is not good and that this is how we help Rama build a great Albania, I am really speechless. First, the construction of this section of the highway from Nis to Merdar will completely change the economic picture of Toplice County. On the other hand, I don't know if fellow MPs, who say that this highway is not to be built, know that exactly in Kursumlia is the first inauguration of the great mayor Stefan Nemanja, the monastery of St. Nicholas, which was built in the second half of the 12th century, and right there, next to Kursumli, will pass the highway? Is it necessary to prevent Serbian students and citizens from getting acquainted with our cultural and historical heritage? Should over a hundred food producers who are currently exporting their products to the Albanian market be ignored? Well, of course not. This share now of the Master's Road Nis – Merdare is overloaded. By building this highway, all vehicles will be rerouted to the highway, which means that, on the one hand, funds will be poured into the budget on the basis of the toll, while, on the other hand, we will have new investors in Toplica, who have just refused to invest in Toplica because they have resented the distance of the highway of over 70km. I wish all those who claim that this highway isn't good, that they come to Toplice and say that to Toplicians. I really wouldn't recommend it because the people of Toplice are building highways that give hope. On the one hand, they feel that the state is thinking of them, while on the other hand building this highway will help all young people to realise their entrepreneurial ideas both in terms of tourism and in terms of fruit growing, vineyarding, processing, etc. Not to mention how many lives will be saved by cutting travel time to the nearest clinical center, which is KC in Nis. On behalf of all Toplicians, I would like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic why they have just decided to build this highway, namely Nis - Merdare. When it comes to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on mutual recognition of the approval of authorised economic operators for security and security, the aim of the Agreement is to improve security in the transport of goods, simpler customs procedures, customs reliefs, removing barriers to mutual trade between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia. The agreement is another evidence in a series that the government of the Republic of Serbia is working to improve bilateral relations with all neighbouring countries. It will affect the reduction in the prices of our export products, so that our products will be priced competitive, while we will get import products at lower prices, and that is good for end-users. The last item of today's agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Investment Funding Agreement and Consulate Services in order to improve social infrastructure in units of local self-government affected by the migrant crisis. The total value of the project is 20.8m euros, with 11.9m euros a donation from the German Development Bank, while the government of the Republic of Serbia has committed to providing 8.9m euros. These funds will fund 25 infrastructure projects in municipalities affected by the migrant crisis and in municipalities populated by Roma. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today we were able to hear what could be built for much less than 26m euros, how much Dragan Gilas reported property only in real estate, which he acquired as a portfolio-free minister, in charge of implementing the National Investment Plan, apparently for his own investments, which Dragan Gilas acquired as mayor of Belgrade, who in charge of the city of Belgrade for a billion and 400 000 euros, and which Dragan Gilas acquired as director of the National Office of the President of the Republic in 2004-2007, when more than 400,000 people were fired in Serbia. As the Alliance for Serbia falls apart, as the youth leaves the DS, our country develops and changes every day and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will support all agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67046	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67047	Dear present, from the offered points of the agenda, my attention attracts those points relating to investment, highway construction and gas pipelines. It is certainly to welcome all the activities that have been going on in this field in recent years and no one can deny it, even opponents have to admit it. We have from day to day a wide front of investment, and the end of existing highways and the opening of new construction sites, which is certainly something that promises and pours optimism, where we can definitely get an ambience in which investments and domestic and foreign sites will be directed towards the country, not only in large cities, but also in other parts. However, what I want to draw attention to is the delay of investment infrastructure projects for Sandzak space. So, for years the awaited route of Corridor 11, here, we celebrate, therefore, every new step and this connection that will be legalized tomorrow, and that is extremely important for us because it shortens our communication from Novi Pazar to Belgrade, however, Corridor 11 over the Cave was just about to be this vein of the house that would open up this space and extract it from a certain infrastructure and economic isolation that exposed Sandzak space for a century. So we had announcements and around the pipeline, here it goes, now it's going, and it's still gone. I am already ashamed to ask about a road that was allegedly agreed with certain Turkish companies, Novi Pazar - Tutin, we simply have ridicules on the ground, where only one supporting wall was made out of that road and the works stopped. I don't want to look personally at these problems right now, but I want to say it's not good that these projects are being delayed, no matter what the reasons are, justified or unwarranted. I wouldn't underestimate the political processes that are happening in Sandzak at all. I was really looking forward to the moment when we will open a new site, when we can see Sandzak space within Serbia, from the point of view of Serbia definitely as a space that is no longer conflicting, a space that will be the point of meeting, a point of union. We, unfortunately, have had a relationship with this space in principle over the past decade or so. So, if we had projects in favour of the Bosniaks, that, by the logic of the matter, was understood to be at the expense of the Serbs. If we had in favour of the Serbs, it was understood that it was at the expense of the Bosniaks. Our political project, Justice and Reconciliation parties, was and remained to treat this area with a political vision on the model "i-i". It is possible to have a comprehensive political, economic and infrastructure programme for Sandzak space that will not exclude one from including another or that will not prefer its own projects, either politically or economically, which will be seen as being at the expense of the other. I'm afraid that delaying, above all, economic and infrastructure projects, leaves space for the manipulants and those who want to go to negative political processes, I don't know whose interests, I don't know by whose orders, but different uses Sandzak, through unfavorable announcements, tensions and all that, unfortunately, earlier decades, we've had the opportunity to look at. I therefore insist that those issues that are common and common are roads, a common airport, a common pipeline, common jobs, factories, that simply those projects which are equally interested in both Bosniaks and Serbs-Montenegros and all other Albanians living in Sandzak, in this way we will be able to bring those other projects that are particular in nature, which are individual, collectively, to be able to approach them in a relaxed way. That's very important, and I ask you to pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67048	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67049	Thank you, Vice President. It is good to discuss the draft laws confirming certain interstate agreements. However, we have a situation that in the last, that between 2012 and 2018, we have put out 67,000 family agricultural holdings. Behind these holdings remains land abandoned and unsettled. Once the state provided funds to cover the largest part of the cost of planning land territory by means of arrondation or co-operation. Today is an arondation of measures that are not applied, practically, but the commission could be applied, because 70,000 landowners per five hectares only on average should be, that is, 350,000 hectares of land outside the function of agricultural production. I wonder why the Republic of Serbia does not raise an international loan to co-finance the costs of the organisation of the land territory, allowing them to be arranged, and then to combine with neighbouring land that would possibly be interested in taking over the land that was arranged? This way, the cost of land planning and if they bought it would be far higher than the purchase price. Also, I'm asking a question of justification of the route between Nis and Merdar and the construction of the highway. Does the Republic of Serbia need this highway at this time, given that it will be a bit of a frequency, given the route? Also, will he be economically justified? This should also be borne in mind by the fact that the number of inhabitants is constantly reduced, as well as their successors, unfortunately, as those who will repay these international loans. Because as "Today" newspapers, information funds, announce yesterday that we are returning loans from Tito's period, some newspapers will publish over 40, 50 or 70 years and over that the second or third generations of our successors are returning the loans that we are in debt today. That's one reason. The second reason is that the simultaneous construction of several routes really creates extremely large financial commitments towards the state of Serbia. Also, I want to ask a question – when will the Republic of Serbia raise one bigger credit for modernising agricultural production and for rural development? Because, with such modest resources, even significantly smaller than 5% of total tax revenues, and in the period from 2012 to 2020, if we count the budget that we adopted for 2020, agriculture and villages are cut off by about 100 billion dinars, so that after pensioners, it is the largest socio-economic group that has the largest reduction in budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67050	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does Serbia need a highway? The number of vehicles from seven years ago, moving on highways, was 34 million vehicles, now number 60 million. Compare the highways with inter-urban traffic you can do that when you wear a dress such as yellow-green and then take as a small Perica and highways with local traffic and say – we do not need a highway between Kruševac and Kraljev, as if only the people of Kruševec and Kraljev and no one else will go on the highway. It's the same thing as comparing the highway from Nis to Vranja and saying – whether we need a highway from Nis to Vranja, if we forget it's some corridor that connects, say, 500 000, million people, who bring investors from abroad, to travel goods, etc. Imagine, asking today – whether Serbia needs a highway between, say, Kruševac, Kraljevna, Čačka, etc., for me it's a crazy question and I don't know if all the patients in "Laza" are numbered. I'm afraid they're missing someone. Ladies and gentlemen, along the highway, there are investments, agreements, of course. Small countries must resort to agreements. The big ones can hit to get to the oil, to get to the economic interests, they have, of course, a military force, which has to do with the harm of small ones, and for their own good, to develop their own economy. We must, in order to have the potential for development, we must negotiate and communicate with the environment. The bigger the market is here, everyone forgets that a CEFTA agreement has been signed and thus secures the larger market, "small Schengen", as they call it, only simplifys the passage of goods and people, so it brings nothing new on the common market, but facilitates that passing and brings greater benefits to economic operators in the territory of the countries that sign it. For that reason, if you want someone to invest in your country, the Chinese, the Russians, etc., you have to show what a potential market is. I have to tell you that foreign investments that come with highways bring, which is favourable, bring new technologies, bring new jobs, bring money, and most importantly, bring in a piece of the market. Anyone identified for investments in Serbia has already secured the market and thus our export potential is growing. This reduces the trade deficit, thus increasing the coverage of imports and exports. However, we have an anachronous behavior. We have people who don't see too far ahead, who seem to have a hill ahead of them and don't see the whole world being modernised, that times are very fast, that technologies are moving really fast, that without new investments, there are no new technologies, there's no IT, there's no this, there's no that. We need to move faster, since in the 1990s, and God has lost many steps in 2000, we are lagging behind developed countries. In order to get higher wages, we have to have bigger investments. Greater investment is fuel for the economy. So if you don't invest in the economy, you feel like you have a car without a engine and no gearbox and no fuel. That vehicle can't go up the hill, that vehicle can only go down the hill. To keep our country from going down, we have to do everything we can to attract as many investors as possible. These agreements, just to remind you, Angela Merkel, who listened carefully the other day, the great Germany felt the danger that big companies could go after their workforce and the great German wants to let Serbs into the EU, but part by part, as a workforce, wants to liberalise the conditions for working in Germany, so that German companies don't come out, even I think she said in the Western Balkans territory. We need to take advantage of the benefits that through greater investment and through the workforce that we have quite educated, to try to attract these investments, so that people don't go to Germany, because the goal of Germany is to drag our people away and leave us somewhere on the periphery. If some rich Germany wants to develop, then our wish is justified, that agreements, first of all with our neighbours, and we have to swallow some dumpling, make as much market as possible, attract as many investors as possible, that the workforce within this region can freely cross from the ID card, etc., to make it easier, that phytosanitary control at the border is only one, so as not to be two or three, to simplify the passage of goods, etc., that as much money as possible, the more pay, the fuller the pension and health fund is in our country, and not one by one, so we will get close to the big EU market. It is better for us all to enter together with EU standards than for one individual from Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo as a false state, BiH, to enter the EU one by one. It is better to show as a community that we are mature, to develop our economy and bring prosperity to our inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67052	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67053	I would like to dedicate my discussion to one of the agreements on today's agenda, which is the law confirming the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements relating to the financing agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the German Development Bank KFW, Frankfurt, and the special agreement with the Finance Agreement. In fact, in the second half of 2015, Europe was affected by an unrecorded wave of migrants. That year, the largest number of migrants in Europe came from Asia, using the Western Balkan route. On the way to migrants, the Republic of Serbia has found itself a transit country. The trend in the number of migrants entering the territory of the Republic of Serbia began in 2015 and continued its growth in the coming years, and it is highly likely that the migrant crisis will continue in the coming period. I can say that Serbia has educated several reception centres for migrants who are in transit. At these centers, they can get all the medical care and care they need, temporary accommodation, food and water, shoes and clothing. Also, in reception centres migrants can apply for asylum. The fact is that Serbia is only a transit country for migrants, so that a number of migrants group and stay unorganised outside reception centres in cities located on routes used when leaving the Republic of Serbia to Western European countries. Such groups of migrants are often out of health, social control of our services, disorganized and often cause disdain and fear of domestics from potentially infectious diseases, property incursions, and violence due to lack of funds for life. Although they are aware that migrants are people who are just passing through our country, we must not ignore the difficult circumstances from which migrants come and the difficult conditions they meet on their way. I would especially point out that the most vulnerable categories are women and children among migrants. As the most vulnerable categories, they are subject to various types of exploitation from sexual exploitation, through forced labour, to commit crimes to human trafficking. We must not forget that about 10% of the population of migrants are children without a parent's escort. It is alarming that almost every child has experienced some kind of trauma or violence. Children are the most common witnesses of murder or violence committed against their parents or family members, and they themselves are often victims of physical or sexual violence. That, of course, leaves the long-term psychological and physical consequences for those children. The Republic's authorities are overly responsible for ensuring the essential conditions and rights of migrants. However, involvement of local communities, resolving the problem of migrants is crucial, as all policies adopted at national level are ultimately implemented in local self-government units. All rights and needs of migrants meet and achieve in the local community and ultimately, the acceptance of migrants by the local community is crucial so that any activity can be implemented at all. In this respect, both assistance and support are needed, above all, financially and logistically. In order to help the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Germany has shown its willingness to provide assistance to the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs with a view to financing investments and consulting services in order to improve social infrastructure in local self-government units, i.e. cities and municipalities that are structurally weak and are affected by the migrant crisis. Migrants and their problems in Serbia are dealt with by many, of the state itself and its institutions through various NGOs and humanitarian organisations. We are free to say that in moments of the strongest migrant crisis, the Republic of Serbia has shown its readiness and ability to face the problems the migrant crisis is facing. In voting day, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the agreement, as well as any other agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67054	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67055	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, all these agreements are extremely important and show one determination to make investments into a brighter future. But what we are very often concerned about is what happens to the same investments in Sandzak, especially these infrastructures. You heard earlier from our party president and MP Zukorlic that we also have a bit of anxiety in the public, when it comes to highways, when it comes to everything that is vital to the survival and development of the entire region. What used to be said, and what is not heard today, is the question of the railroad in those parts. Unfortunately, New Pazar and the entire Sandzak region that is gravitating towards him today in the 21st century do not have a railway line. They don't even have the basic conditions for normal communications, for the flow of citizens, for the flow of passengers and goods, and that's something that shouldn't be allowed. It's something you should insist on every time. We are also looking forward to being released to work today and the “Ladjevci” Airport, its first flight, but we are also looking forward to, asking for one such airport to be in Sandzak, because the majority of our citizens living in EU countries and other parts of the world find it justified to have one such airport in Sandzak in order to further speed up their easy arrival in these parts and open up investment opportunities, given that many of them have both the desire and the need to invest in their native areas. However, precisely because of these lacks of roads, railways, airports and they, like all other investors, are not quite thrilled with such an ambience and would simply show the country's determination to put the end on a map of very important areas of interest, as well as that Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica and all other cities, as well as the rest of Europe and the civilized world, have developed road infrastructure that could in some way condition survival in these regions and development of major industrial projects. This way we have announcements, we have attempts, we have one attempt to reconstruct the road of Novi Pazar – Tutin, and from which there is only one support wall, I guess as a monument to the attempt of that reconstruction and who is only lacking that one of the citizens writes that this monument is an attempt to reconstruct the road of Novi Pazar – Tutin, the path of death on which terrible accidents occur every year or years back, very often with fatal outcomes. These are our words, as well as the words of most citizens of this area, because we believe that without good infrastructure, without investing in everything that makes the basic conditions of civilised life, we cannot expect that the rest of the country will be fully equipped with industrial development. This may be one of the key reasons, along with all the other political games, which is why we still don't have any foreign investors in this area, but we are really trying to appeal to all the authorities, when it comes to the railways, when it comes to airports, highways and everything else on the map of very important and priority things, to put Sandzak and the Sandzak climate, because it is a space for incredibly great potentials both in industrial and other terms, but because of these maiming infrastructure projects, it is currently in a very invisible position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67056	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67057	I thank the chairman, Milicevic. Today, in my address, I will focus on the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank "Intez" and "Rajffeisen Bank" following the borrowing of the Public Enterprise "Serbias" Novi Sad under the agreement on a loan for the construction of the divorce pipeline Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, Phase 3. It's about investment investment, capitalisation. For the fifth year in a row, “Srbigas” has achieved a positive trend in business. In addition to positive economic results and net profits, in 2020 more physical volume of natural gas transport is also planned, better payment of claims, rationalisation of costs, significant investment in development investment projects. In November, director of "Srbijagas" Dusan Bajatovic signed contracts on business-technical co-operation in the gasification of populated sites, as well as the construction of a gas pipeline network for industrial zones in Kraljen, Zrenjanin and Kragujevac. As regards these gasifications, gasification ends in populated areas, which will allow both current and future investors in their industrial zones and households in all populated areas of their territory to have a quality energy available, which is not negligible that it has economic and ecological advantages and has significant market reference. As for Zrenjanin, mutual financial obligations have been resolved and there will also be gasification in the industrial zone. As for Kragujevac, the investment that started continues. The city started a gasification that is necessary for the supply of the "Fiyata" gas. The same is true when it comes to the King, where alongside the population, the industrial zone, the gas will also be supplied to the apartments that are intended and built for the army. Something like this was done in Vojvodina. A similar contract was signed in Sremska Mitrovica, and when the gasification of the municipality of Irig was completed, it would actually be 100% of Vojvodina gassed. I can tell you that "Serbiagas" has shut down one part of the Vrbas municipality in due time. It was three populated towns of Bačko Dobro Polje, Dragonjevo and Ravna Selo, and we hope, since this is part of the business programme, that in the near future, the conversion of the debt that the public company of Vrbas has towards “Serbigas”, we will also solve the problem when it comes to the claims of “Serbiagas” by “Vrbas-gas”, and most of these debts are by budgetary users. What I still want to point out is that at the end of the construction of the master's pipeline from Bulgaria to the Hungarian border. In addition, you will start in the following year and new interconnections when it comes to the Niš pipeline – Dimitrovgrad and Sofia and prepare documentation and plans for the Belgrade-Banja Luka pipeline, and there will also be an interconnection with Romania. The Banatski Dvor warehouse is expanding and another warehouse in Itebej will be built. In addition, "Srbigas" in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken steps to provide additional amounts of gas, so that in addition to the end of the year in Banatski Dvor instead of 450 million cubic metres, it will be supplied with another 100 million, a total of 550 million cubic metres, there will be no increase in gas prices and with certainty our citizens will be supplied with adequate amounts of gas, so they have no reason to worry about any concern about this energy that is ecological and least, no harm at all, and it is currently the cheapest energy on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67058	I'd like to thank my colleague, Marash. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67059	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, will address the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to point out at the beginning that the centuries-old and traditional friendship of the Russian and Serbian people and co-operation with our Russian friends in recent years has become even more intense and gives successful results for both sides in all fields. The mutual understanding and co-operation at national and state level, the co-operation of our presidents, our governments and our ministers has contributed great progress in economic co-operation in exports and imports of goods. In this regard, I see that the financial support of the Russian Federation is also to build our railway infrastructure on the continuation of and fruitful decades of co-operation between our countries and the brotherly peoples. The state export credit approved by the Russian Federation under very favourable conditions for the construction of electrical infrastructure on the railways of Stara Pazova – Novi Sad and Valjevo – Vrdnica, that is the state border with Montenegro, as well as the construction of a single dispatch centre for the management, movement of trains on the territory of the Republic of Serbia should contribute to the further development of our railway which was and should again become the cheapest form of transport of goods and passengers. Serbia is a country with a long tradition of rail traffic. The railway management company was founded in 1881 and the first passenger train was released in 1884 on the Belgrade-Nish route. The railway has promoted Serbia and its economy. Serbia has become an important transit route connecting Western and South Europe to the Middle East. That is why Serbia should continue to return after a long time to rebuild the railways. We remember the fast track project. It is true that road infrastructure has the advantage of returning invested money faster, but because of better integration with the region and in order to ensure cheaper transport of passengers and goods, it must also invest in railways. The Russian loan should modernise two stocks that are quite neglected, and are important for connecting the railway network. The restoration of the Valjevo-Vrdnica stock, it is the state border with Montenegro, has been spoken for a long time, and it is an important route that connects West Serbia, but also Vojvodina with Montenegro and represents a shorter road to the Adriatic for the western and northern parts of our country. Also, Stara Pazova's share – Novi Sad, whose reconstruction is necessary, will mean a shorter journey not only from Belgrade to Novi Sad but further towards Hungary and Western Europe. The reconstruction of the railway in Serbia would contribute to increased transport of goods, as well as passengers on both domestic and international lines, and I believe that it would also be a motive for greater tourism travel primarily for young people. Let me remind you that for many years we have been using the Chargan 8 on Wet Gora, a narrow track line built from 1921 to 1925, which is a masterpiece of infrastructure construction. Of course, I would also mention the Blue Train as one of the most famous and popular trains in the whole world, which today can be an attractive tourist offer, but also a luxurious means of transport, which is now on November 29th, and yesterday in the media it was announced that the president of the state wants to receive one of the foreign statesmen on the Blue Train. In general, Serbia needs to and must restore its railways and infrastructure and trains and make them a better transport potential. That's why my MP group and I personally support the Russian state loan agreement for the railways that we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67060	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67061	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there is an old folk, and it is a Chinese saying, it says - friendship should be long-term and long-term, which does not mean that the state should be in debt in the short term, but only to take care of the real possibility of this debt being returned. And every good man will say to his family: work, save, and invest. And this way, we're going to break out all of your arguments when you say that someone, and first of all, you might think of the MPs of the SRS or of some people, that it's against investment, against the development of the Serbian state, so only one who's not normal can be against it. But as responsible people, we have to make sure that one state can and can be in charge. And now it should be borne in mind that these are some new responsibilities, but it should also be borne in mind that these tasks will also build infrastructures, i.e. pipelines, railways, highways and other very important traffic for Serbian citizens. And this isn't just about getting the quality of life for those who are going to travel better and faster roads, but also about the quality of life of those who are going to drive through. In addition to making these places a little more attractive, certainly at a certain point in building these infrastructure facilities, they will get employment. The survival of young people and, above all, professional workers, which is the ultimate goal. We just need to remind ourselves once again that on today, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is around 24.4 billion, and that it increased by a billion compared to 2012 on some 30 July, when the government, which is in the same or similar composition today, took responsibility and policy-making in the state of Serbia, increased by 10 billion and about a billion and 330m euros on an annual basis, are new debts. And now if this is an optimal amount and it's reduced public debt compared to GDP from 76% to 50.6%, it could be said that it goes one exit line, and if it has economic activity in the real sector that all of this can be covered, it could be okay, because there's nothing isolated in the economy, and it's all for itself, but it's all causally connected. And it's true that there's no possibility of opening new jobs to create new values unless there are new jobs, unless there are new factories. At a certain point, both the railway and the highway can be considered as a factory. It will make every place more attractive, that is, every country that has a well-connected landscape, which is well connected to other countries, and that will make it much easier for the population, and it creates a perspective. I am absolutely sure that when a certain number of young people who have recently left Serbia, who are planning to do so in the coming period, if they were to be certain that there will be a little more justice, that there will be a little better life for them, not just in stories, not just in statistical reports, but that they can feel it in real life, that there will be less emigration, and that a certain number of our citizens who have been ready to return from earlier abroad. And there's almost no country in the world that's not in charge, and if there are some smaller countries that don't have some pronounced economic activities, these are more of those countries that have developed gambling, maybe oil-rich fields and so on, but increasingly serious countries are thinking about their progressive development and are mostly ready and in charge. In the context of public debt borrowing, we should take into account and the responsibility of the citizens of Serbia, the responsibility of entrepreneurs should be taken into account, and I would say small and medium-sized enterprises. And if that analysis is made very quickly to conclude that citizens' duties are somewhat higher, that time is passing and even short-term loans are more than they are long-term loans, I am talking to the citizens of Serbia, where they should solve their housing problems or other more serious issues, when it comes to investing in some business entities from which they could provide work for themselves and their family. The construction of the Valjevo – Loznica railway was often discussed here. In the people, that is, in the locals of the region and spread very often for this railroad that should be built potentially says that it is also a warline. It is called the warline for the reason that the French concessionary began the works in the early 20th century and then these works with the beginning of World War II were suspended. Then, since 1938, 1939, the work began again to be interrupted in 1941. The same or similar fate happened in 1990, when, because of the civic work of the SPS, it was so serious or firmly decided to continue to build that railway, because it was also a majority coalition partner, or it was carrying more than 50% of the government and responsibility in this country, but the beginning of the civil war was very quickly interrupted. The same thing happened in 1999 at the bombing. What makes it interesting to think seriously about continuing to build that railroad? So for the simple reason that it is estimated that at the annual level the flow of passengers on that stock would be between 800,000 and millions and that some three-and-a-half million burdens would take that track. Experts say it would be one of the most profitable shares of the railway in Europe and that its payment could be expected over a period of 10 years. With the construction of that railroad, the winner would be the state of Serbia. They would be the winning city of Valjevo, Loznica, Osecina, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Baja Garden. It would even be a good connection with Republika Srpska. The length of that railroad is estimated at 67 to 69 or 68 kilometers, with lots of bridges, overpasses and tunnels. It would be a large factory where at the time of construction of course, employment could be found not only by citizens from two cities or several municipalities, which are the closest, but by one part by the citizens of Serbia. It would thus stop their need to go abroad in search of the belly for bread. That would certainly be good. Furthermore, an investment that would find complete justification, which concerns the middle Podrinj and the part that this railway could cover, is building a tunnel through the hill, where the road between Sarajevo and Belgrade would be cut by more than 50km. In addition to significantly reducing the share, the road would be more quality, a more comfortable journey, but I also repeat, that all citizens living in the area would feel that the state of Serbia is also taking care of them. And if I didn't tell you what strategic importance this road and that tunnel would have, not only for citizens living there, but for all those living in the Republic of Serbia, BiH and Serbia. I would not now like to remind myself of these difficult times for the citizens of Serbia, 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, although without any or serious justification this trip was more frequent than ten years before and ten years ago, when there was a country war. That has to be taken care of. Do not make this authority just declarative for this, for regional development or for even regional development, as was Mladjan Dinkic, but it should be shown in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67062	I thank my colleague, Peric. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67063	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there are six agreements before us today. I'll talk about two agreements, however, before I go on agreements, I'd like to comment on these loans. Let's just remember the yellow company that beheaded this country. They owed the country 26 billion euros. They were taking loans of 7, 8, 9 and 10%. They were probably melting. Now we're taking loans, but at 2% interest, and we're paying back their debts, and that's how we're gonna work until we pay back the debt. We've reduced that debt by a billion and a half and I'm proud of the results of this government's work. Speaking of these agreements, yesterday Mr. President, Mr. Alexander Vukic opened an exhibition in the Palace of Serbia, where we could see the results of the work in seven years, since the SNS came to power. So, from 2012 to 2019. Unbelievable, but true, we saw that we made 350 kilometers of highways. I'll take my turn. We did, we cleaned up the waterbeds, made a signalling, of course not the whole length of the Danube and other rivers, but we do. Also, they made miles of railroads, re-edited and repaired what was ruined, and it wasn't working on them for 50 years, even 70 years. That's how it works. As far as the highways are concerned, 350 kilometers of highways, the end of Corridor 10, looks like an airport runway. We now have a highway to Greece, we have a highway to Bulgaria. We did it, we started doing Corridor 11, it was built more than 80 kilometers of roads. Tomorrow we open the shares of Surcin-Obrenovac, so from Surcin, or Belgrade, we'll be able to reach Cačka in less than an hour and a half. We'll be working on six more highways, including the construction of a 70km-long Ruma-Shabac highway. For the Moravski Corridor, 740m euros of living money from the Republika Srpska budget were allocated, the tape was cut Sunday, the first share will be completed in 2022. By the end of 2024 or 2025, I'm sure the Moravia Corridor will end with all the bridges, with all the cords of the Morava River never to happen again in life to create chaos in those areas. As for the draft law on confirming a financial contract, the E80 shares of Nis-Medara, someone said, one of my distinguished colleagues, so why isn't that a priority? It's all a priority, building highways is a priority, that's how investors are brought in. Who wants to go out in the middle of nowhere? Nobody lives. Let a colleague remember what it looks like to fly, waiting eight hours at the Merdare crossing, inadmissible. That is why we are building highways and that is why Serbia will be one of Europe's medium-developed countries in a few years, if it isn't already. As for this loan from the European Investment Bank, it is 100m euros, and it is extremely important to be made this time, because in this way, it is the route that is necessary, because it connects Albania, connects Serbia with Albania, but not only with Albania, the Adriatic Sea, the Ionian Sea, we will have faster flow of goods, we will have faster flow of capital, we will have faster flow of passengers, even if the "small Schengen" lives, I hope that it will, and what needs to be signed between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, is going to be the real thing, the small EU. Someone said-- out of the question. As far as I'm concerned, people haven't figured out what that is. First of all, we save money, over 200m euros we save, each of these countries, second -- speed, third -- recognition of qualifications, people don't understand what "little Schengen" is, I hope that they will quickly live along all these highways, here we have investors. With regard to factories in Serbia, more than 250 factories were opened from 2012 to 2019. We open factories, the yellow company closes. Remember only in 2008 when 400,000 people were fired. In 2008, 2,000 judges were fired. There are still some there like Judge Majic who's for a child who's been raped to punish for a year, as if someone stole a car, a shame, and I hope we can see that man's back quickly. What else to say for this highway. Nis-Medara stock will be part of the E80 Corridor highway, whose construction will significantly shorten time travel and increase safety. The project is divided into Nis-Pločnik, the first section of 32.7 km times, then the stock of two lengths 8.8 starts after the loop of Merošina east, the share of three lengths of 12.8 kilometers passes through the construction area of Prokuplje etc. I hope this time it will only bring about a better one, and I'm sure all these people who live here, primarily investors. It should only be said that the entire trip will cost 255m euros under very favourable circumstances, i.e. 2% interest. I'll just say a few more, because there are still a lot of colleagues who want to talk about the results of the work, I would like to say about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state loan from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why does it matter? Because any signed agreement means strengthening bilateral relations. This is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia, and we are making friends. They signed only a mass of agreements and it is seen that Serbia is progressing on the road. When Mr. Medvedev was in October this year, the contract mass was signed, including the loan agreement of 172.5m euros. We're going to do a lot of work with that, first of all, fast tracks, then we're going to buy from them extremely good compositions. So I'm sure this loan is one of the improvements for the Republic of Serbia, and not only that, Russia helps us all the time, we have only 2% interest here, and I said, I'm not saying again, that thanks to the yellow company we came, in 2012, to the brink of failure. Today is a different story and I will support all the proposals of these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67064	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67065	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I really lost my lines and I want to ask Mr. Martinovic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, does he agree with the presentation of his representative who spoke earlier, Mrs. Ljiljana Malusic? Is it the new policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or is it our fear that we said you wanted to recognise Kosovo and introduce it to a small door? Here it is said, I will quote it: "If the E80 highway was made on Nis-Medara's section, there would be no more traffic at the Merdare crossing about eight o'clock." What is this border crossing, with which state is Merdare bordering? Who are you bordering with? Do you want to recognise Kosovo, as you would like to settle migrants, what was your proposal again at one of the committee sessions when you spoke? Is that the SNS plan? Here, I'll ask for a stenogram. Take a stenogram and read what the SNS MP said. Eight hours waiting for the Merdare crossing. According to what? According to who? With who? That's one. Two, you were talking about some saying they don't want the development of road infrastructure. Not that I just want to develop travel infrastructure, but... (Alexander Martinovic: Who are some? )......................................................................................................... Here, Mrs. Ana Čaapić spoke of some, so she took the example that Podujevo has more inhabitants than Toplice, and an example of Kurzumlia. I'll give you an example of why people leave those parts of Serbia. Here, for example, the state invested 25m euros through the Development Fund in the Simpo Shik company in Kursumlia. They have not paid taxes and contributions to around 500 workers since the founding of 2010. Of these 25 million, according to the court's expert report, only three million euros were invested, and strikers from the company presented the problem to the president of the state. Instead of finding out where it was stolen, where more than 20m euros have gone missing, they return money and arrest thieves like you say and, you say, Dragan Gilas, but you don't arrest him, something completely different is happening. The state pays 150 million dinars to the municipality of Kursumli to share aid to socially endangered citizens, to calm down the strike of employees and thus protect thieves. To make things worse, there's a new theft in the distribution of those 150 million dinars, because a good part of those couples ended up not socially endangered, but in the pockets of municipal officials and benevolent privates. As an example of whom this money went to, here is Mr. Martinovic, 620,000 dinars as social aid, he received Nebojsa Jovic Gibe, otherwise a municipal official. The only ones who haven't received social assistance are SRS committeeman Zvezdan Ristic and one of the leaders of the protest, Nebojsa Krstic. That's the real situation in Kurzumlia. When we talk about why there are more people in Podujevo, we said, here, why they leave, we have another problem when you talk about the fight against crime, corruption, even sign agreements and take an example of the United States, according to the tax administration, the latest data from the tax administration, the company "Mera Invest" owned by Marko Miskovic is responsible for the tax name of 1.08 billion dinars or 9.1m euros, Miroslav Bogicevic "Magma prom" 990.4 million dinars in the name of the tax, 8.3m euros, Dusan Borovica 772m dinars, Dragan Djuric 540m dinars and many others. This proves that the great players of your system broke in or in agreement, how they worked with DS and SNS, applying their large debts, not paying taxes, and then reprogramming debts, partly debt write-offs, of course without stopping in production. What happens in practice with small businesses? (Alexander Markovic: What's going on? I love it when Mr. Markovic throws me away, because he really is an economic expert and he understands what I'm talking about. Here, for example, Mr. Markovic knows someone named Zeljko Rusic from Vojislav Ilic of Vračar Municipality, who had a market, a shopping store and was just one of those where tax inspectors appeared... (Alexander Markovic: This is Starstar.) ) Well, you know so much, Mr. Markovic, Vojislav Ilica Street is a three-way street between Stargazers, Vračar and Voždovac. But, well, you couldn't go further than some cafes there. ... And where they find excess or shorts of only 500-1000 dinars, they've closed trade facilities, punished them brutally, and so they've taken away these people's bread, and they've been hit by completely small objects, which are commercially, which are catering, and today they're on the verge of the repression of the tax inspectors of the SNS, because they're not able, like the big players who owe this country billions of dinars, to advancely agree with you preparations, but what you're calling it upPR and you're going to go on for the next five years to reprogram the debts. In this way you show how double arches are, on the one hand, how you treat and protect tycoons, and on the other hand how you punish ordinary people who try to earn literally for themselves and their family. Now, for one thing, when you compare yourself with EU countries, you should know that the practice that exists in their system is not anything like that in Serbia, because in Western countries, especially in Western EU countries, whatever company made a debt that is greater than capital, it follows that firm bankruptcy, and then they are charged by the director or the owner, or it comes from its claims on its behalf and is then obliged to pay a large fine in the name of the tax. That's why the people in Serbia are getting smaller and leaving the country, because they can't make money for themselves and their family and because you continue to protect the tycoons that were then the tycoons of the Democratic Party, and now they're the tycoons of the Serbian Progressive Parties and that's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67066	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67067	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, has been a country that has been progressing faster and faster every day since 2012. In 2012, the World Bank found that Serbia was lagging behind two and a half investment cycles as far as infrastructure projects are concerned. The backlog turned into a year meant that Serbia had been lagging behind in infrastructure projects for 40 years. Today there are 41,000 construction sites in Serbia, highways are being built in Serbia, railway infrastructure is being built in Serbia, conditions are being created in Serbia to improve water traffic, all assumptions are being created that Belgrade becomes the main hub for both water and air and road and rail traffic. That's what makes it harder for the SNS and that's what it does and builds every day. One dinar invested and invested in infrastructure four times returns. I must point out that since 2014, Serbia has made progress in economic terms every year and four years in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Serbia, according to the World Bank, is also the fastest growing economy in Europe. Serbia, also by direct foreign investment, is the country with the largest number of foreign direct investments compared to the number of inhabitants. I must stress the end of Corridor 10, because investment in infrastructure, investment in highways means actually investing in life, investing in development, investing in the rest of the population in the area, investing in higher wages, investing in higher pensions, investing in the future. Tomorrow will be open a section of the road from Surcin to Obrenovac, that is Milos the Great highway. It is a pride for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, a pride for the government. Also, on Vidovdan this year, Morava Airport opened in Brodjevci, which will today begin its first civilian flight on the Kraljevo-Beč route. Also, I must point out that the construction of the Moravia Corridor is also started, which means a strong cookhouse for 500 thousand citizens on this corridor, but also for 22 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises that are also in this section. But not only that, I must point out that the Moravia Corridor means that the peasants who plow and plant their fields near Morava will no longer have to look into the sky whether the rain falls and Morava swims and takes away all that they have sown with hard work. The Moravia Corridor will also be applied to the water bed, so that citizens of Adran, citizens of Sirca, will not have to fear that Morava will swim and take away all their crops and all their hard work and work. What I particularly want to stress is the agreement signed on 19 October when Russian Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev came, signed here in Belgrade, and it is a state loan for the construction and reconstruction of the work of the Valjev railway towards Vrbnica, i.e. towards the Montenegrin border. It's just one of the projects under this agreement, but what I have to say is that the shares from Resnik to Valev relating to the bar track, otherwise very significant and connected to the road corridor, Corridor 11, were reconstructed in 2017 and trains on this section go at a speed of 120 kilometers per hour. The aim and intention of these governments is to continue to reconstruct the railway from Valjev to Vrbnica in the total length of 210km/h trains also to go at a speed of over 100km/h. The express track also means a better life for the citizens of Valjev and the citizens of Požega and the citizens of Koserić and the citizens of Užica and the citizens of Priboj and the citizens of Prepolje. I would like to stress that this loan is very favourable, it is 172.5m euros, that with 25% the Republic of Serbia participates and that it could participate if there were no painful but only legitimate and real economic reforms and that Serbia today is not on sound grounds. I must point out that compared to the railway infrastructure, we are working further on the Corridor 11 highway, there is a section from Preljina to Požega in the length of 30.9km, it is a demanding stock but certainly from Požega will go one foot towards Bolari, again towards the Montenegrin border, and the other leg will go towards Uzic and Kotroman, which will be the link between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, I must stress one more thing that the yellow tycoon company absolutely did not take care of infrastructure, highways, regional roads, regional railways. I will give an example, in 1887 the Lapovo-Kragujevac railway was built. That railroad, by the way, from about 27km, traveled on that track 10 to 30km per hour, that railroad was reconstructed and now a train of traffic in 26 minutes on that section. What is the goal of this government is for the reconstruction of this railroad to be continued by the Kragujevec towards the King. It's 57km long, but imagine on that train route it travels for two hours. Such times will no longer return, because this is the government responsible, this is a government that is the improvement of the quality of life of every citizen in the first place and the better life of every citizen, and certainly through the construction of infrastructure projects and this is achieved. Of course nothing of this would be if the policy led by Aleksandar Vucic was a policy of peace, stability, security, policies of normal, developed and rich Serbia, and that policy has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67068	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing a number of laws that provide for agreements between Serbia and those that at some point borrowed or loaned to Serbia money. We have before us an agreement with the Slovak Republic that was the result of the 1991 negotiations when a partial balance was being made between the former SFRJ republics. At that time, according to the agreement, each Federation or federal unit of the SFRY accepted part of the corresponding debt. When it comes to the debt that has taken over Serbia, then we must bear in mind that it is actually a SRJ debt, and subsequently, the internal agreements between Serbia and Montenegro have clearly made a partial balance. The point is not whether it is fair or not now, but is the essence of reminding you of your colleagues in this House, as well as the public that these and these debts were written off after October 5th, based on the words of Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic and other greats of economy and economic science. You remember when they convinced us that the arrival of the new democratic authorities had simply forgiven all debts, including those at the level of the Paris Club and the London Club and so on. You see how everything comes to the surface, as well as this agreement with the Czechoslovakia Federal Unit has surfaced, and now we are discussing how profitable it is, how acceptable it is for Serbia to have a clearing relationship with Czechoslovakia previously established to pay off in conversion dollars and they say, very favourable to Serbia, which is seven million. It may be financial, but that justice and justice, those who lied to the nation, those who cheated first and foremost when they came to power that billions would come to Serbia after 5 October, that everyone would forgive us these debts, they should now respond. Instead of responding, some of them actively participate in the government. Some are advisers, some are headed by some agencies, commissions or alliances that co-operate with Arab Emirates, some are completely innocent, intact, even insulted when mentioned, live, develop their own private business and have, possess huge capital. And here we are discussing whether it is favourable that the new negotiations, the 2019 talks, led to some 85 million dollars, of clearing dollars now on behalf of the debt, we pay Slovakia seven million. When it came to the essence of the analysis whether it paid off, someone would argue that it was, someone had not, and in that case, they would have forgotten what the essence was that no one was responsible for everything he had deceived and cheated on the citizens of Serbia. According to us, Serbian radicals, it could have been done when it comes to these debts, perhaps being run in another way. Here we have, when it comes to the Czech Republic, reminders for work, not concrete, not related to these seven million, you have these British Virgin Islands, where offshore companies are taking over debts, or the Czech Republic has paid them debts, they are charging debts from Serbia. But, as I recall, we discussed it once, there was also a minister of finance, and it wouldn't be celibate to discuss it in front of a minister who is not really in charge, far from being understood, but these Virgin Islands, or as you once loved you, former radicals to speak, the Sheschel Islands, are always under suspicion, and it's always something that a man should accept with the reserve. No, they spoke to Shesselyov, because even then they proved how loyal they were to the radicals and how much they cared about the leader of the SRS. Now they're in the second camp, now they don't think about it, they're more connected to this Virgin, not out of the nature of their behavior, but because it's also an offshore company that does it. Let's move on, what's interesting is this agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of America, when it comes to tax regulation and taxpayers, America as a state-of-the-art, the state that takes care of taxpayers and, of course, the orderly payment, the settlement of those tax obligations, sign an agreement with Serbia as well as with all countries where it puts its interests first, does not ignore Serbia's interests, but that's in the second plan. The government here, clearly in the proposal, says that this proposal for an agreement implies the allocation of new financial resources and the employment of a new workforce, because Americans are asking that all its taxpayers pay their taxes neatly regardless of what part of the world or continent they live in. That's just the side of them. How Serbia and how it will regulate it will remain in this agreement, clearly and precisely shown. What remains unclear to us Serbian radicals, who will allocate these additional funds to the name of tax regulation and taxpayers for American needs, to hire people who will zealously follow how much they owe to the U.S. tax. That's policy. It's a policy of continuity, don't god forbid the government possibly opposes something and opposes the Americans, they would immediately know what kind of pilot he was. They would not be desirable at those prayer breakfasts, is it very important that every year, not all of them, but individuals invite you to this prayer breakfast, and then gastrologists, or as it is already called, take care of you in the remaining days of the year, how you accepted that prayer breakfast. But this meal is too big for you, it's too expensive. You could eat in more luxurious places and in more exclusive places, not constantly raising to the U.S. administration. Here we have an agreement which is an example of what the SRS has always suggested, which is, the greater and the closer co-operation with the Russian Federation. We see that even from this agreement clearly specified things, when it comes to the credit line from the Russian Federation concerning the completion of the Stara Paza-Novi Sad railway, the dispatch centre and the continuation of the railway construction towards the border of Montenegro, as well as how favourable it is when it comes to contractual commitments. It is given on the basis of realisation, as far as it is realised by the project, so much is paid. The credit granted by the Russian Federation can even be returned in Russian underwear is no problem, based on a course set by the Russian Federation's Central Bank and these are specific jobs that are being done. We are burdened here on every budget spending report to see how much interest it is on behalf of the interest, because of unused unrestricted funds approved on behalf of the loan, how much interest is paid by Serbia. This is concrete. There are 175m euros here, these 175m euros, 75% of the Russian Federation on behalf of export operations, clearly and precisely defined, even what is used on behalf of these projects clearly states that it has been released from VAT payments, but is being built into these projects of crucial importance for Serbia. There's nothing unclear about it. I tell you again where good luck is that the more we have contracts and deals with the Russian Federation, whether you admit it or not, Russia is the most present here when investments, regardless of what you want to forge, some of you want to show that we have unfavourable relations with Russia when it comes to import and export, while ignoring the fact that "Gaspromneft" is here as the biggest investment and the largest of all when it comes to petrochemicals and oil production and processing. It is something that each year brings and how great profits to Serbia. To bring the end. We have a contract here on the Nis-Medara highway, it's called the administrative line. You could have exactly called that line, that's how you signed the Brussels Agreement. We care about Serbia building, infrastructure and this highway and all highways, but there must be transparency when it comes to both credit and performers. Don't accidentally re-use yourself with tried-out methods like Bechtel, then draw this 30km section in a Lex specialis, and then it turns out to be Bechtel. This is the EU guarantee. Thank you for understanding the chairman. We're really bringing the end. As far as this loan is from the Commercial Bank of Frankfurt in Maine is concerned, it's called a package of arrangements when it comes to the credit line. The bank gives us 11 million to improve the social structure. But look what he's giving. It also gives counselors, gives and projects, gives and monitors. You think that's for free? No, and advice and projects and surveillance, it's all paid. Of the 11 million, we may still need to add two to settle debts or three to show our colleague Komlenski, to settle our debts for advice, for projects and for supervision. Don't think it's free cheese, even in a mouse hunt, it's not free cheese, and so is this kind of loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67070	I thank my colleague Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am not one of the people's MPs who has criticised what imports are growing in Serbia and most of all from the Russian Federation. I haven't criticized a single minister for that. It's nice to meet you now. Some have come to an ex post sense, so now they defend what I defended just a few weeks ago here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And I defended that when imports of energy into the country, above all oil, oil derivatives and gas, these are indicators that the country is getting better, easier to live, to spend more, and that increased imports are the result of improving the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the development of the economy in general. So, I ask my fellow MPs to make sure in their discussions that they do not jump into their stomachs later and criticise what they will do in just a few days later and defend themselves. I've heard some stories here about the UPPR, maybe a colleague should know that the UPPR is an advanced reorganisation plan, or maybe it's hard to remember. And when it resorted to UPPR, since there were very interesting ideas here, it resorted to those economic operators that were privatised in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and benefited, their owners had until then used a privileged position in relation to the executive power and did not settle their tax obligations. And it's no problem at all, the state is always stronger than any individual, to launch bankruptcy on these businesses and to charge the tax claims it has on these companies and thus put them in an equal position and these STRs or catering facilities, and not to lie there, not to knock everything on the register, and that is individual, each of these entities subtracts a much smaller amount of tax, but calculate how many there are, so let's do it every tenth, so you'll see what amount of secret tax. I ask the question, when the state goes bankrupt, one way or another, by blocking the account of the first economic operator, causing a 30-day uninterrupted blockade, informing the competent Trogovian court that is launching bankruptcy or not bankruptcy managers, what will happen to the workers? Now, answer me that. Are these people going to be thrown out on the street because the ones you've been reading for a little while, they've been stealing from those same workers, their salaries, their pensions, their health insurance, they've been stealing from the state, and now you expect them to fill some whim to get these people out on the street? (Alexander Seselj: To whom? ) (Miljan Damnjanović: Name and last name. I don't think that's how the state is run, but it's run in a responsible way, in a much more responsible way towards these people. It may not be entirely correct for those who paid tax obligations in time, but it must also be taken into account that tens, hundreds and thousands of people who would lose their jobs and lost them by 2012, when the state did not care about employees. So the next time he reads the speeches that someone wrote to him and doesn't even know how to read them, think about them a little bit, he's having a little consultation with some more experienced colleagues or experts, they don't have to be from the policy area at all, why he's resorting to UPPR and how many jobs are preserved today because of this UPPR, and how these companies that, yes, owed taxes, are now operating in accordance with the law and paying all their tax obligations. Not all businesses. There'll be a turn for the ones you've been reading. But the easiest thing to do is to close down the company and get people out of work, to fill a whim. One more thing. Find me anywhere in European legislation a regulation that the founder of debts made by the legal person he founded from his private property pays that debt? Here, find me, I accept that we're going to lobby at the Ministry of Business to get into the Business Society Act. Just find it in European legislation. I'd like you to find it. It doesn't exist. It's not there. It may, under certain conditions, have been committed a crime of fraud, that the person be convicted of a crime of fraud, legally, and then prosecuted for damages. It's--who lives, who dies by then. Also, colleagues, I didn't know this contract was about Czechoslovakia in conversion dollars. I know about the conversion mark, and it's in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this contract is for the clearing dollars. But I accept that it's a little lapus and that it can happen to anyone. Just, too, allow you to accidentally, in some discussion, make a mistake in such a rather small way and completely irrelevant to everything he said, and I think it's a lot of quality said. But we can't defend one thing, and that same thing in the other contract and attack. Because, let's say, when it comes to KfW Bank, they're going to have some of their projects, so they're going to have their knowledge, their property, etc., and then we're defending a contract with the Russian Federation. I agree that the contract with the Russian Federation is an extraordinary contract, that it is extremely favourable for the Republic of Serbia and I wish we had more such contracts. But, as someone said, there's no free lunch. There's no free money. Because, if you look at it, you first have the amount and purpose of the loan, then in Article 2 of the credit use, and then we come to the second point, the second point of view - the limited and Russian companies registered in the Republic of Serbia that deliver goods, perform works and provide services in the context of the realisation of the contract have the right to make mutual payments in Russian underwear. I'm absolutely up for one of these. But what does that say about the loan? The loan is said to be credited by the Russian Federation and that their equipment, their knowledge, their technology will be subject to the realisation of the loan. I absolutely don't mind. I'm up for it, let's get this straight. But also, if someone else gives you a similar, just from another country, a similar, equally favourable loan, then why are you attacking it? It seems to me that there is this inconsistencies -- this is good because it's from Russia, this is bad because it's from America or from another country, or from the European Union. Well, he can't. Let's talk about whether it's good for the Republic of Serbia or not? I think it is, both of them. To attack an agreement with the United States, which wants to prevent its citizens from tax evasion through other and third countries - what is our problem? Does anyone really think they have more American citizens in Serbia or have more Serbian citizens in America who have such a desire? Here, I'm telling you that there are more of our citizens in America who want to have a registered place in America not to pay taxes. So what do we want now? Spare them that? (Alexander Seselj: No, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can't ask the U.S. for your income tax protection without providing them with protection for their tax claims. That's not working. That's not how it works. No, the world isn't black and white. The Republic of Serbia is leading one normal policy, a policy that we want to co-operate with all countries. Is there a problem in working with all of them - there is. Just, you know what? If many of these Western countries don't like us, it doesn't mean that they don't respect us, unlike in the past few years. So when they admit that our legal and legal system is at an envious level and that they can cooperate with it, don't say no. Because it is a signal to others who are not involved in politics but only in business that Serbia is a safe country. (Alexander Seselj: Safe house. We're making fun of safe houses now, and I'd just like to remind some of them that safe houses are a shelter for victims of domestic violence, so when they blow off something like that, let them think a little bit about the victims. Because it's not all about ridicule, and it's not all about banalization, as you mean here. It's not all that, let's say, in 2012, says one of the colleagues -- you know, our public debt that year was so much and so much, it's statistics that are based on the legislation that the Republic of Serbia has shown as public debt. And what about the public debt that arose and was not given the consent of the National Assembly? She was taking over the state of obligation. Is that a public debt? The commitments made by the state by 2012, which concern the most frequently running budget spending, which could not be reconciled from current budget revenues, in 2013 and 2014, were to be raised in order to settle these commitments. The biggest debt was for pensions, for agricultural producers. So, what now? Now, this debt, which was created in 2003 and 2004, and which was settled in 2013 and 2014, should be said – that is what Aleksandar Vukic owed the state or... The SRS are getting it. ) So many fighters for fighting rights, and they do not say that the Government of Aleksandra Vukic reconciled pensions led by military pensioners towards the Fund, which Sutanovac did not directly allow these pensions to increase when they increased others. Do you know how much money that is? You know, it's easy to deal with demagogy and say – we'll do this, we'll do that. This is done. They're secure. Pensions are paid, and that's a big difference between theory and what some would like to say they can do in practice, and basically everything would remain only in theory. Not to mention the famous affairs "Agrobanke" and "Vojvodine Development Banks", not to mention the obligations created by the city of Belgrade while Gilas ruled the city of Belgrade and not to talk about all other obligations that the state eventually had to pay for. There's one more thing to say. First, there is no story here about the border crossing, because it is a fellow who is persistently trying to get the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic to recognise Kosovo as a state. (Alexander Seselj: What colleague? ) If that were the case, a 100% tax on goods from internal Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina would not have been introduced today, if Serbia had recognised Kosovo. Secondly, it would be much easier to open chapters on EU accession, and Serbia only wants Alexander Vukic to find a solution to the status of our southern province that would accept both sides. Now, some that are frozen conflict in the times ahead, I'm afraid they'll stay frozen in Siberian cold, because we don't have resources. That's funny to you. We don't have the resources to participate in such a thing in the long term. We don't have the resources because we want to build infrastructure, and here it is about laws, about giving consent to tasks directly related to infrastructure, to reduce even more the departure of our citizens abroad. Serbia is no longer the so-called "favourable destination" because you have cheap labour here. I'm sorry to have to deny you, Serbia is no longer a country of cheap labour. When someone advocates that the lowest wages and pensions be at the level of the average consumer basket and that often Serbia compares itself with the most developed EU countries then, I would like you to find me an EU country, which you claim to be the richest and most terrible towards the Republic of Serbia, find me a four-member family that can live on an average salary or from an average pension. Here, find me. (Alexander Seselj: There's no such thing.) Well, there isn't. It means it's utopia. It means it's Utopia and your programs are utopian programs. I'm sorry, that's how it works out. In theory, it may be possible, in practice no one has proved it yet, because, you know, you have to prove in practice the truthfulness of your theories. The construction of railway infrastructure and the construction of highways and the construction of pipelines will certainly not only improve the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in these territories where large public works are now being carried out or planned, but in any case, these same parts of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account the entire Republic of Serbia, will make the country more competitive in terms of investment and make the existing economy even more competitive in the market. Every time you attack laws like this, think about who you're essentially attacking, who you're defending, whether you're defending one unsuccessful policy or attacking citizens of the Republic of Serbia who deserve to live better than they are today. But they certainly live better today than they did a few years ago alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67072	Thank you, colleague Arsic. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica of my colleague Arsic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67073	Just for the sake of the public, since the public is now in doubt after this circulation of speech whether we Serbian radicals have read the material well, have we read it, this material from the Serbian Government, which is supported by most of the SNS, if I haven't made a mistake in the meantime. Has something changed? It's not. Here, in an explanation of this proposal for an Agreement with Czechoslovakia, the payment agreement between the SFRY and the CSFRJ concluded on 8 February 1991, which abolished the clearing and introduction of a conversion method of payment, with the clearing dollar leveled with the dollar. For public reasons, that's what you say. Second, if he thinks we're wasting our time, the valuable time we have to discuss here, he's wrong. He's, not with conviction, he's with preconvincing, he's one of a series of evidence that a man can't change his conviction, he can change his belief. Only a favourable offer to provide materially is sufficient, a financial situation, that the SRS has a mandate in its pocket that provides for four years of existence and all preconvincings and convictions have been erased. Accepting a new one, as they would say, as in the computer. You can feed him as much as you want, only if he has personal satisfaction. This excessive concern about pensioners, I really admire certain colleagues. They have representatives of pensioners here in the Assembly, how do you face them to claim that their honey and milk are about to sing out of happiness? You took them, you haven't returned them yet. As far as criticism of Serbian radicals is concerned, as much as you're criticizing us, our ratings are growing. We're saying this for the public, not for those of you who have variables and convictions and prejudices.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67074	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67075	What's growing, I don't understand? (Sandra Christmas: ratings, I guess. It's a ratings game. (Alexander Seselj: Just say the word, explain.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67076	Here you go, pal. You've got a basis for replication. You don't have to be in communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67077	We're only gonna find out in a few months, and we're gonna measure whose rating it is. (Milorad Mircic: You don't want it in the month, but when they tell you from Europe.) But here, Mr. Chairman, I think you had to react because this was not the purpose of the discussion to discuss differences in political programmes, but my colleague Mircic directly accused me of being able to do anything for money. That's exactly what he said. (Alexander Seselj: Imagine working for free? That may be a man of his own free will. Milorad Mircic: That's what you're famous for. ) Perhaps a man comes from himself because the Republic of Serbia does not have a price for me. The interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have the price, as well as the political programme with which I go to the elections and what is promised to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to vote there is no price. In the meantime, some have changed the political programme, and all should have returned their mandates, as citizens do not vote for political parties, but for political programmes. Citizens vote for what we promise them in the campaign, so when we give it up, then we're thieves if we don't get our mandates back. At the same time, I was representing that Serbia should co-operate with both the East and the West, and that was said in the campaign, and when that ideology gave up, I gave up on such a political party, so now let's see who tricked the citizens there? Veroljub Arsic and 22-23 other MPs or those who suddenly changed everything when they received votes from citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67078	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Here's your best answer, because the question was addressed to you, and I want to react at this point because it's 1400 hours and now I'm going to be in line with the member... (Milorad Mircic: Let's get the opposition over with once.) I believe that you will continue the debate in a democratic spirit. You and Mr. Arsic were right about the replica. It will continue after the debate. Now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at exactly 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67080	Thank you, Chairman. Of these draft laws that are before us today, I have chosen to say more about the draft law on the approval of the E-80-departments of Nis-Medara, Phase 1, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The budget law planned to assign the Republic of Serbia to the European Investment Bank to finance a 100m-euro Niš-Pločnik-Medara highway project, the first phase, so Nis-Pločnik. The project covers the construction of 32km of semi-profil highway from the Merošina-Prokuplje loop on the highway E-75 to Beoljin municipality. It is only one share that will be part of the E-80 highway, and the total value of the entire project is 255m euros. So, the European Investment Bank in the form of a loan will provide 100m euros, 80m euros will be co-financed from the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development and 40.6m euros are EU grants, and of course, there are funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would like to remind you that the share of the eastern leg of Corridor 10 was completed and opened about a month ago, perhaps a little longer, so the highway from Nis to the border with Bulgaria ended in a total length of 87km. That section of the E-80 highway from Nis to Bulgaria is characterized by 87 bridges, five state-of-the-art tunnels and five traffic loops. Today, from Nis to Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, there are no more meters without a highway. Traffic security is significantly higher and that means, of course, progress in attracting new investors. The importance of highways is both for the City of Nis and the Nisavski County and for all of Serbia, of course. We can now say that we live in a built, much more modern country, and most importantly, in a financially stable country. On Corridor 10, say, six years ago there were 34 million vehicles, today it's about 60 million vehicles. The Belgrade airport had three million passengers, now has six million passengers. What is particularly satisfying to point out is the fact that in 2012, 1500 passengers flew from the airport, and today it is the number of 400,000 passengers. We still have a chance today to announce a number of new projects, new infrastructure projects. Of course, we'll also have a chance to open up new shares when these projects are realised, and these are the results, first of all, SNS policies. While with Democrats, such as my colleague Ana Čaapic, our authorised representative for this item of the agenda said, while the Democrats were full of the mouth of even regional development, and since the implementation of such projects we have seen nothing, the SNS has shown that all parts of Serbia are important and that all parts of Serbia can develop evenly. Aleksandar Vukic made a promise that a special accent would put in the south, or southeast of Serbia, which we saw was done. With great work all over Serbia can develop evenly and change for the better. For these very reasons, I, along with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67081	Thank you. The word is Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67082	Thank you. Today we are talking about proposals for a law on signing an agreement. The agreements on the agenda today are a continuation of the political and economic order of the Republic of Serbia. Of all the proposals for a law confirming the agreement, I will first say something about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the granting of loans, the state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, under which the National Assembly decides on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and according to which the National Assembly confirms contracts forming financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia. The deal was signed in Belgrade on 19 October 2019, during Russian Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev's official visit to the Republic of Serbia. A 172.5m-euro loan was granted. Funding this project is a railway infrastructure. I would like to say that this is part of a project relating to the rapid Belgrade-Budapest track. Another contract that was then signed was a contract to build a dispatch centre for train traffic management in the Republic of Serbia. Then, construction of railway infrastructure, electrical, on the railway section of Stara Paz-Novi Sad. And, thirdly, making an idea project with belonging studies on the Valjevo-Vrbnica railway section. It's a state border with Montenegro. The value of this project is 250m euros. While all three Contracting Parties will conclude specific contract annexes to determine the prices and deadlines for the completion of each of them. Seventy-five per cent of the 172.5m euros is financed from credit funds, and the Republic of Serbia provides 57,500,000 euros from the budget. So, 25%. The availability of the loan is at five years and the interest will be calculated from the date on which the loan is used. The fiscal interest rate is 2%, and the tight interest rate will be 1%. The next agreement is the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Inteza, Belgrade and the Raifazen Bank, a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the agreement on a loan for the construction of a divorce pipeline, Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška - Novi Pazar – Tutin. The contract was signed on 18 July 2019. It's about the Master's Department. divorce gas pipeline Bruce – Kopalnik – Raška - Novi Pazar – Tutin – Alexandrovac. The pipeline is a high pressure that would connect the area of southwestern Serbia, which does not have access to this energy with the rest of the public pipeline network "Srbigas". The construction of low pressure networks would later follow to make it available to the general public. The loan is worth 20m euros. The duration of the loan is five years, the interest rates are 1.3% and 1.45%, depending on the bank. The next project is the E-80 highway. It's a financial contract highway E-80, Nis-Merdare stock, phase one. It was signed between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The contract was signed in Belgrade on 12 September 2019. The amount of the loan is 100m euros in line with the mandate of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. The first share of Nis – Pločnik 33 kilometers, evaluation of the value for expropriation and project of the entire stock is 250 million. Secondly, Pločnik – Merdare is 570m euros, and the rest of the stake, which means all together, is 920m euros. Investors are "Serbia Corridors". The importance of the road is great, connects about half a million citizens -- a pyrotic, nic, thermal district and connects with Corridor 10 and exits to the Albanian port of Durres. The Nis highway – Merdare is not only important for the development of the economy and the integration of the district, it is also important from a political aspect and it shows Serbia's interest and desire for a solution to come by compromise. This is one of the six highways to be built in Serbia in 2020. This is the highway of peace. The route goes from Merošina, Nis, Toplički district near Prokuplje, Beoljin, Pločnik, Kursumli to Merdar, a total length of 77km. The payment period is 30 years and 15 tranches will take place. The interest rate shall be determined on each tranche separately. Serbia is being built and no one is to see that Serbia is one big construction site. The people of Serbia see who works, who drags back. Serbia doesn't have a break from the nonsense that makes up part of the opposition. While one part is working and building, fighting for a better future, the other one wants to destroy everything that is created. Politics is the victory of better ideas and abilities. Great support to Alexander Vukic, because he works hard day and night. This pace of work is really unsustainable, and such a man should be supported and worked for all of us, for Serbia. It's still one hell of a pace. Some would snipers stop Serbia, stop Alexander Vukic, stop the future. Whoever pointed the machine at Alexander Wolfich, pointed it at each of us. Aleksandar Vukic is building modern, decorated Serbia, better, more humane. I want to say something about both Gilas and the democratic governments who have been building their political careers. They destroyed everything and destroyed it. They left 400,000 people on the street and there are those 2,000 people who have, as they said, 16,000 teeth. They are our strength and our future. All of you took their teeth and bread from their mouths, Mr. Democrats. It's very morbid, it's one absence of morality, as your mockery, it's your shame. You took everything from them, and they don't have a break from your nonsense and taking, you know, imaginary affairs. There's no cure for your diagnosis. Your diagnosis is called Alexander Wolf. You can't forgive him for his success. There's no money for you to buy that drug, not Gilas's 624 million, not the Jeremics', not the Pajtics'. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67083	Thank you, Mrs. Repac. The word now has Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67084	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, honourable MPs, we have today an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. It is a project of realisation for the construction of the railway, as well as the construction of a dispatch centre. The contract provides for the implementation of works within the second phase of reconstruction, modernisation and construction of the 200km-an-hour track on Stara Pazova – Novi Sad, a total length of 40km, on the Belgrade-Bipest track. In addition, a project is being developed for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Valjevo-Vrbnica railway line, a state border with Montenegro 210km long, to continue the work on the stake. Serbia has had an old and abandoned railway infrastructure for years. Many railways were out of operation, and trains didn't go to some of the shares. After a decade of not caring about cell facilities, many railway stations are damaged today and in an extremely poor condition. Today things change for the better, they invest in railway infrastructure. Today it develops, improves in favour of better citizens' lives and benefits for the entire economy. Thanks to the government, a comprehensive modernisation of railway infrastructure and the construction of new railways is under way, which will completely change all rail traffic in our country over the next few years. A lot's been done. 48 passenger trains, 16 freight locomotives were purchased, 500km of regional railways were reconstructed. There is also the Belgrade railway – Budapest, so Serbia will have the fastest track in this part of the region to go 200km per hour. This agreement also plans the construction of a single dispatch centre on railways for rail traffic management. A unique dispatch centre will enable the implementation of new management technologies, constant control of train traffic and increase traffic safety on European traffic corridors 10 and 11. The project involves dispatch centralisation, the creation of automated systems and computer complexes, the installation of technical means for security, the creation of conditions for the diagnostics of compositions during train movements. Serbia wants to become one of the most modern countries in the area of traffic. This project is important, because we will connect to the rapid rail system in Europe, leading us to further economic development, especially the economy. In this way the quality of services and the speed of travel will be raised to one higher level, and rail traffic will receive additional quality. The construction of such a railway will improve the quality and standard of citizens and allow Serbia's economy to transport competitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67085	Thank you, Dr. Lyubic. The word has a colleague, Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, Mr. Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67086	I thank the Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, first of all, the information that despite the fog that was in the Ships was successfully completed by the first flight from the Boats to Vienna. Thank you. [[Applause]] And this set of laws that lies ahead of us, i.e. the agreement, tells us that what kind of policy is run by the SNS, that this is primarily a policy of reconciliation in the region, co-operation with neighbours and economic recovery and development policies. You are here in front of us a set of agreements between the United States and the Russian Federation. That's exactly what it says about us working with both the East and the West and being our own. One of the bill's proposals, or agreement, concerns the pipeline, and this is phase three, and I am glad that I also took part in the vote of the first two phases. It means that the project is going right, moving away, and that at last the part of Serbia that has not been gassed, which is far from the rear nodes, and the last node is in the Kingdom, as far as the Kopalnik is concerned, will reach the New Pazar and Tutin. This speaks of the even development of the Republic of Serbia and that this government, that this Parliament, and above all President Aleksandar Vukic, is exactly what is being taken into account. I listened to some comments yesterday when it came to the Moravia Corridor, so the east of Serbia was mentioned. It is this bill that says that we are developing evenly all parts of the Republic of Serbia, to the universal satisfaction of our citizens above all. Speaking of these bill proposals, colleagues also mentioned the part concerning the Nis highway – Pločnik and the Russian Federation and that loan of the Russian Federation and this is a loan with which we have been renewing our railway capacities for several years, we are trying to return the railway to those times when the railway was an important segment of traffic in the Republic of Serbia and I believe that railways and now, as in all developed countries, should be exactly, if not 50% of road traffic, being carried out by rail. In all orderly states, you have railways with two tracks. Unfortunately, we have almost had cases, and now we have between the Kings and the Kragujevac, the composition that transports cars from the flag, or the Fiat, for Luka Bar moves at about 15 to 20 kilometers. A lot has been done, but only before us is one period of recovery, and this law is not, I suppose, defined and that part that I know was in the plan this year that was in the budget right through Georgia, where the land configuration itself is such that rail traffic cannot take into account the old track, and also on the wetlands, that it is done properly. Everything else, from Chačka to the King and from the Kings to Kragujevac, is now electrified, and I think we'll have that part properly defined very soon. So I don't owe, because there are a lot of speakers behind me, in the day for the SNS vote, they're going to support these bill proposals anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67087	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67088	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with representatives of the government, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are discussing legislation that has once again shown that there is absolute seriousness in SNS policy and seriousness in the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to solving problems on infrastructure and repairing rail traffic, and all in order to improve the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I would point out that this contract is actually of great importance and is very favourable for our country and this bill confirms an agreement between the two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, which was signed in October of this year during the official visit of the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Mr Medvedev. Two agreements have been signed when it comes to railways, and I would certainly stress that it is very important that we pay attention to this when it comes to rebuilding the railway station. The first agreement is an agreement between the two governments, with the approval of a state export credit and a Russian railway loan worth 172.5m euros. Also, our country will contribute by participating in the Republic of Serbia's 57.5m-euro budget to construction, i.e. repairs of the railway station, so that the total will be invested in this segment of 230m euros. This agreement concerns three projects. One of the projects is the design and construction of a new dispatch centre on the railway. The financial resources will also be used to build project-technical documentation when it comes to continuing the reconstruction of the Bar Line, and also to building the electrical infrastructure of the fast track section of Belgrade – Budapest. When I mentioned earlier the figures that will be invested in the infrastructure when it comes to rail traffic 75% of the value of these works will be financed from the Russian loan and 25% from our country's budget. The total length of the unrectified part of the Barska railway section from Valjevo to the border with Montenegro is almost 210km, and after reconstruction, the train speed will reach as much as 120km per hour. I would once again point out that the first time since 1976 has been working on reconstruction and modernisation on the Belgrade-Bar track. The agreement we are discussing today will certainly contribute to strengthening the two countries' friendly relations and during the last visit of Prime Minister Medvedev, except for this agreement, agreements on co-operation in the area of education have been signed. Also, an agreement on co-operation in plant protection, i.e. a phytosanitary agreement that will allow fruit and vegetables to be exported to Russia. The conditions under which these exports will be carried out have been clearly defined and an agreement on the establishment of a cultural and information centre has also been signed, which is also of great importance, then, an agreement on the construction of a nuclear science, technology and innovation centre under the economic and innovation agreement. A co-operation agreement has also been exchanged in the customs area between the two countries. Serbia and Russia have never had better relations, but as is the example, today's visit by the prime minister of Russia is also a confirmation of further strengthening and bilateral co-operation, and in particular Serbia's economic co-operation with the Russian Federation. When we look at the fact that the foreign trade exchange exceeded three billion dollars last year, and this year it will also continue to grow, and the trade in the first eight months of this year is over two billion dollars, which is about 8% more growth than last year. In the past eight years, Russian investments in Serbia have been extremely large, amounting to about 1.6 billion euros, and more than 900 Russian companies are operating in our country. Besides energy, the wood industry, as well as agriculture, digital technology is also an important area where co-operation between these two governments will be created. A good example is that Serbian construction firms in Russia, in the Russian market, are doing positive business. This Russian loan will build the most modern dispatch centre, one of the state-of-the-art dispatch centres where it will be managed absolutely by the entire railway. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation should certainly be supported, as it will further strengthen the friendly relations between the two countries and improve mutually beneficial co-operation, as one sincere friendship should certainly continue this way, as it goes well, through deepening the relations of the two friendly countries and thus demonstrates that Serbia and Russia's co-operation every day reaches a growing and larger level, which is certainly important for these two countries. SNS policy is certainly clear, it is an investment in infrastructure that will create places to create good conditions for new jobs, for new investments and for an increase in the number of employees, and all in order to create better conditions for life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67089	Thank you. The word is by Professor Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67090	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected MPs, today I will talk about the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, with the aim of improving the compliance of tax regulations at international level and applying the "the foreign account tax complementance act", i.e. FATKA regulations. The agreement concerns a set of U.S. regulations adopted to combat tax evasion. And we know that America's the most important tax. Well, Al Capone fell into tax evasion, too. These regulations provide that foreign financial institutions or other financial intermediaries participate in reporting to prevent tax avoidance by US citizens or residents holding their financial assets in non-American financial institutions and foreign accounts. This means that the competent institutions in the Republic of Serbia will be supplied once a year and for the previous year, data for US citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The FATKA agreement introduces obligations for certain entities in the Republic of Serbia to collect certain information regarding US accounts, all in order to prevent US citizens from avoiding paying taxes in the dominant state. In Article 3(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The FATKA Agreement stipulates that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the United States will sign an agreement on technical co-operation, defining the procedures and rules necessary for the application of the provisions of the FATKA Agreement. That way all the money, even the donation money, will be under a lot of transparency. I've already talked about low cardio surgery getting a genetic laboratory the most modern in Serbia. Low clinics received a 100,000-euro apparatus used to diagnose congenital disorders in patients, such as thrombophylia and for complete tissue typing in transplants, as well as genetic cancers. In this way, the rate of mortality that is now for cardio patients has been reduced by 2.2%, and the overall mortality rate at the Cardio Surgery Clinic in Nis is 1.9%, as well as the waiting list, almost does not exist. In addition to the donation mentioned, the cardio of vascular and transplant surgery in Nis, the US Army, or Tennessee National Guard, which participated in the exercise with the Serbian Army, donated 400,000 euros worth of appliances. The extra-corporate circulation apparatus, the fast-cooling coolant, the ecmo pump that replaces heart and lungs, the intra-operative blood-saving apparatus are equipment that modernises and improves the work of the clinic. Confirmation of the FATKA agreement will ensure that all internal procedures prescribed by domestic legislation, and not the confirmation of this international agreement, could undermine the current US investments in the Republic of Serbia and would at the same time have a negative impact on the arrival of new investments. That is why I will vote in favour of this agreement as well as all other agreements spoken by my fellow MPs from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67091	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. He's not here. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67092	I thank the chairman. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's session has seven agreements that show essentially how much Serbia is co-operating with both the east and the west on various issues, such as regulating a debt related to Slovakia. These are some of the backlogs of the states, which this government inherited, which some earlier did not want to solve. So precisely because of the good foreign political relations and bilateral agreements with Slovakia, it was obviously reduced to $85.5 million in debt, today it is $9.3 million and that the state is, in a certain way, ending these debts. The best relations in politics are those relations where you do not have a burden when it comes to any debt and any political parts in terms of the same or different interests, and because of that, we do have support with Slovakia when it comes to European integration, as countries, as EU members. We are pleased to end with such states all the debts that burden us from the past, though, for example. The SNS had no reason for such debts, nor had any idea, until it took responsibility, and then obviously it was not only debt, but also many other debts that we had to settle from 2012 to today. When we talk about Serbia and Russia's agreements and the export credit signed on 19 October this year at 172.5m euros, then we are talking about exactly the infrastructure projects of the railway, as the projects relating to the E80 highway, the 32km section, the Nis-Medara route, are also saying by the European Investment Bank of 100 million, but we are also talking about the assistance signed between the Development Agency of the Republic of Germany and Serbia in 2016. It is an agreement relating to the KfW Development Bank, which speaks of the German Development Bank as helping different projects and crises in different ways. Now, indeed, this part concerning the migrant crisis wants to help local self-government precisely in the way that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has raised the issue of resolving the migrant crisis when it comes to the reconstruction facilities of primary school, health institutions, and thus that the whole project is being co-operated with and with citizens' associations, or the non-governmental sector that is taking care of this problem. The project will obviously last three years, up to 2022 from the day of signing this agreement and ratification in the Assembly, and shows that we are essentially thinking strategically about many problems that are not only Serbia's problems, but the whole region and the entire EU. As you know, the migrant crisis is really burdening many countries, the most EU countries, but as Serbia is in that route, in a certain way the EU is grateful to Serbia precisely because we first started to list all these people who entered our country and went out. And, in the end, we have really proven ourselves to be good hosts of the people who have found themselves here, because they are used to having standards of developed European countries, and what is a fact, is that it is really very small interest for these people to stay in Serbia because of this very standard that is currently in Serbia, because they are used to having standards of developed European countries and everyone's goal is that Germany will open the borders completely from January 1st, and, I don't know, some forecast of their projection is that it will suck up a million and a half people by different basics for employment, of course, that part of which refers to medium professional equipment, and one large part of the professors, doctors, engineers, which, otherwise, is the German long-term plan for the development of their economy, because at one point until 2030, they projected that they will have five million new pensioners, as an old nation, so they need to have a new workforce. Of course, in their exhibitions, they prefer to talk about the countries of the Western Balkans, because here they would always want to take what is most valuable of us, which are our young people, these are educated people, and that is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia is really trying to keep young people as long as possible in Serbia and that those who have gone back to live and open their small and medium-sized enterprises here, are creating families here, and indeed by their active measures, trying to bring this problem seriously. That's why the government of the Republic of Serbia created a working group that she called it a working group to solve so-called. social migration, that is, the very problems that arise, which is why certain people leave, and most of all because of the economically favourable environments in the EU country where they would live. What we have shown as a state at this point is that through economic reforms and fiscal consolidation we have created a condition so that we can do infrastructure projects such as railways, such as roads and such as gasification. Today we also have an agreement to ratify, to approve practically the Bank "Intheza" and "Rajffeisen" the Bank that the Committees of Credit "Srbiagasu" worth 20m euros for the development pipeline that should go just as the third phase on the direction of Alexandrovac-Brus-Kopalnik-Raška-Novi Pazar-Tutin. So, we are really here as a state trying to, in addition to running a truly active foreign policy and in an extremely responsible way, trying in every international organisation, including us as MPs in international delegations, we want to show really how responsible we are to address the issues of Belgrade and Pristina's relations on the one hand. On the other hand, important infrastructure projects, which have been done so far in Serbia, which has been launched and completed four highways, are planned for two more, shows that indeed with such infrastructure, with new roads, new railways, the opening of new factories, new jobs is in fact an environment for young people to return here. After all, we're opening up the latest scientific and technological parks where IT experts should be hired here and paid as much as they really are in all developed countries, that they don't have to go out to do the same job. This best shows that IT exports have already gone 20%, that this figure is moving in the development area around a billion euros a year, and that's actually an indicator for us in which direction we should go. Of course, and as responsible politicians, that's where we're going. Two days ago, there were open works on the Moravia Corridor and I have to say that it's very important for us that this will be the first digital highway, which simply brings life, which will have 11 loops, 78 bridges, 23 overpasses, five underpasses and 11 releases. By building this highway, you regulate a complete flood defense system, i.e. Morava, in a certain way you're trying to set up so that as a state, you don't have much damage in that part. What is most important is that the project will be run in three stages and will be at 112km in total and will cost 745m euros with 20% additional works. What has been announced half this year, it is that in the next eight years it will be given in general for infrastructure projects of 14.5 billion euros. What does that mean? This means that with the People's Republic of China and with companies coming from China, they will have projects worth five billion euros, in medium-term investments of eight, that the part relating to the development of the entire Belgrade-Macedonia railway line will have a value of 600m euros, that with Russia we will have the construction of a new dispatch centre, which refers to the railway, worth 150m euros, plus when thinking of the 400m railway line itself, that with Turkey, Turkish companies we are working actively on the construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo road, that Azerbaijani firm Azvirt is actively working on the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica. These are all indicators, in fact, how much does the Republic of Serbia invest in its future, and that future will come quickly because when you solve problems, such as the Moravia Corridor solves the problems of half a million people in its communication between Corridors 10 and 11, then this shows that indeed this development in general will go through high growth rates. Why? Because only the Raška area has registered 11,000 businesses, of which 2,500 companies and 8,500 entrepreneurs. Imagine this trade exchange that will become bigger and bigger when suddenly 11,000 businesses really facilitate their lives and work through such infrastructure projects. I think that today we are actually showing the citizens of Serbia how much we are doing and how much the results are behind this work over the past four years. That is why in the voting day we will support this proposal of all agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67093	Thank you, Professor. Tomic. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67094	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, it is very important that in today's debate we highlight the value of all seven agreements that are on the agenda today, because each one represents an important step forward for each citizen of Serbia. The agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation, signed this October 19th during Russian Federation Prime Minister Dimitri Medvedev's visit of 172.5m euros, is a loan signed for five years to finance rail infrastructure with an interest rate of 3% and with a return date from 1926 to 2031. The agreement for the European Investment Bank to build part of Nis-Medara's 77km stake and build a 32km semi-profil highway is important for both safety and for the reduction of travel time, but also for connecting with Albania, Bulgaria, as well as for Serbia's integration into the traffic system of the region and Europe in general. The agreement with Northern Macedonia is important because of the removal of all barriers to trade between the two countries, and it is also a continuation of implementation, a signed agreement between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. Serbia's agreement with the United States is aimed at improving compliance with the tax rules of the two states that will allow for an increase in the international reputation and credibility of domestic financial institutions. These agreements fully show Serbia's commitment to economic progress, infrastructure building and quote, i.e. I will repeat the words of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who said yesterday at the opening of the exhibition "Nothing is far away" that more has been done in the area of infrastructure in the last five years than in the last 50 years. And we see this every day and on the new roads that open it and by the fact that on Sunday, an agreement for the construction of the Moravian Corridor is signed on the fact that tomorrow, the shares of Surcin-Belgrade will be open, on the basis of which it will be fully connected, part of the highway from Subotica, from Horgos to Preljina, as well as the fact that in about 12 days, so in December 28, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic will present to Serbian citizens a new investment plan for the next five years, with an increase in salaries and pensions, with a reduction in the unemployment of Serbian citizens to below 10%, this is certainly favourable and good news for the end of this year. By contrast, part of the opposition, which has been boycotting parliament's work for a year, continues with imaginary affairs, Dragan Gilas tells us what the highways are for. It continues with the downsizing of election conditions that we seek and says that the adjustment of 45 days of pre-election campaign in Serbia for 1,445 days is the same as talking to the occupier that during the summer, the curfew lasts an hour longer, because the day is longer. That is said the man who reported 74 000 euros from the initial capital, during his time as minister and mayor, earned and reported only 25m euros in real estate, and his companies had 619m revenues. That's what Gilas and his comrades say because they don't know what they want, because they don't have the program, and because they want the authorities to get their hands on it, and it's obviously not their goal to win the election. That's why Serbian citizens are fenced from such politicians every day, and they don't want to have anything to do with people who made enormous wealth while they were in power, while Serbian citizens were worse. We continue to improve the economic environment in Serbia, this shows our daily work, the laws we are discussing and which we are making, as well as these agreements that are on the agenda today and in the voting day, I will support all these agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67095	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. Now the word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67096	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, the day when we talk about the second joint principled single debate, i.e. We see, in fact, that we have seven different laws on different agreements, i.e. Confirming guarantees, confirming a financial contract, but there is something in common between all these agreements and all these guarantees, which is next, that they are all reached among the equal negotiating sides. Why am I pointing this out? So, one negotiating party is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is the negotiating party, let's say, the Government of the Slovak Republic, when it comes to regulating the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Slovakia or the United States, when it comes to improving the compliance of the tax rules or with the Russian Federation, when we confirm with their government an agreement on the approval of the state export credit, or when we confirm, we guarantee two banks of Raiffeisen Bank and Intesa when they need to guarantee the "Serbian" further construction of the gas pipeline. Or a financial agreement related to the E80 highway agreement at Nis-Merdare, which we achieve with the EU and so on, I do not count. So it is agreements between the two equal sides. Why am I pointing this out? Well, it's very ugly when you're negotiating with someone and that someone you're having some kind of subjective relationship with. We could see this even recently, a few days ago, from the work of our opposition, which first called on international representatives, representatives of the European Parliament to intervene between ours, between that part of the opposition and the part of the government, that is to say to participate in an interparty dialogue on improving conditions for holding the 2020 parliamentary elections. Then they get angry, so they won't participate. What exactly did they want? In fact, they wanted these European parliamentarians led by Mrs Tanja Fajon and Vladimir Bilchik to be some sort of judge, so that they would judge between the ideas of these dangerously large opposition groups gathered around the Alliance for Serbia and all others. So they've raised themselves so much, they've given themselves so much importance and so on, that they won't even talk to the representatives of the government at all, but they need some sort of mediators they can only talk to, so the intermediaries will pass on their wishes and so on. So this subjective relationship is terribly ugly. Imagine how such people would run state policy if, God forbid, one day they came to power. That's right, subjective. In order not to make it clear, this delegation of the European Parliament led by Mrs Tanja Fajon, the President of the European Parliament's Committee on Relations with Serbia and two former MEPs, Eduard Kukan and Knut Flenkestein, and in which Vladimir Bilchik, the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, also took part, can say, has done her job well. Although there were various signs in the press and so on. We can't tell Tanya Fajon that she was mean to us, although we know that her unhidden affection for that part of the opposition is known, especially for the parties in their name who have the word democratic. But her group in the European Parliament, for example, organised a debate on the day before the visit of the MEPs to Belgrade, for whom? For members of the Alliance for Serbia, which no different opinions have been heard of. So there was only one side that she was talking about. They went there to spit on Serbia, to bring out various lies, lies and so on, although not many viewers, there were not many interested in hearing all the things they listen to, because they also know who Dragan Gilas is and they know what he was doing while he was in power and so on. There's one interesting thing about that debate, to call it that. They say Dragan Gilas spoke in an unknown foreign language. His friends say it's English, I don't know, probably. He'll be remembered for it. So it's very important that we make agreements, taking part as an entirely equal side with the other negotiating side. These agreements are certainly developmental for Serbia and responsible. Here, for example, the agreement with Slovakia is very important because we are paying back the debt that was created at the time of Czechoslovakia and as a very responsible state, responsible government, we must also respect our obligations. So that I don't owe any more, I certainly support all these agreements, there are seven of them. In voting day, I'll vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67097	Thank you, Mr. Dickie. Now the word has Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67098	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already said that today is the day 351 that MPs of the opposition do not come to work for which they receive their salary neatly. Now, we also know that some of them would be very happy to return to parliament, but not give them their boss, the joint boss of all of them, Dragan Gilas, and they're just afraid of it. They are afraid that in that case, Gilas would lead the hunt through his media against them, but they, the chairman, will certainly account for the citizens who chose them to represent their interests here in parliament, and they do not. Some of them, the chairman, were in the National Assembly today, here in the hall, holding press conferences. It was Marinika with an unconfirmed last name, because there is a controversy which is her real last name and, frankly, I expect that soon, and perhaps at the next conference for the press, Marinika Tepic hears that Vucic is, in fact, guilty of these earthquakes from a few days ago and for other natural disasters. Maybe he'll charge him with involvement in Kennedy's murder. It's that he wasn't even born then, but what do they care? It's not particularly important to them. Nothing would surprise me, because what Marinika Tepic and Bosko Obradović and that Alexic and everyone else are seriously threatening to become a series or a thriller film with elements of science fiction. They do not pay attention at all, while all of this has been denied countless times by all the relevant institutions, official state institutions and domestic and foreign institutions. They keep spinning the same story for days here in the hall of the National Assembly. Every once in a while, they put in a new photo, they put in a new face, they put in a new name with a desire to make things more convincing. What, the chairman, is most dangerous in all of this, does not take into account the direct threat of Serbia's defence industry. So, such malicious allegations directly harm Serbia's military industry and that's what's dangerous and raises the question whether what they're doing out of pure corruption or doing maybe for someone's interests? Why am I saying this? Because no one is interested in Serbia having a strong and competitive dedicated industry. No one is in the interest of Serbia being strong and strong, that we have a strong military industry. It's like they want Serbia's military industry destroyed. Like they want every factory in Serbia to be destroyed and then we rightly ask ourselves, "What is the motive for this?" Is it pure corruption, hatred for the results of the government and the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, or is it that they may be working for someone's interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67099	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67100	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, to put it this way, it is very difficult to talk about these agreements, and my smallness has no intention of saying it, but I will say a few sentences about two agreements and this agreement regarding Russia and an agreement regarding the United States in a specific way so that I don't get into a situation to repeat myself, to say what my distinguished colleagues and colleagues have said. Dear Members of the People, I will begin with a quote. I believe you'll recognize him. I quote: "Serbia will never give up friendship with Russia, because it would not be normal." It's a finished quote. Whose quote do you think this is? I see you won't say, I'll just remind you, and you've all heard him at the session, said President Aleksandar Vukic on 27 April 2014 in an exposé for the Prime Minister, in exposé page 14. And from the exposé of 03.08.2016, it reads on page 10, quotes: "The government remains committed to promoting good bilateral relations with co-operation and with other influential factors, as it has been talked about European countries in the international community, such as the United States, as well as with traditional friends and partners such as the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, Arab countries and others." Dear People's MPs, let me remind you of what you know, because today is exactly the time and place to say some things. My exposure will link a little politics, a little science, and I'd like someone to oppose me. Maybe I'll be lenient with some of the opinions that have been made these days on some of the TV screens. This friendship that the president of the Republic spoke of in two exposés between Serbia and Russia was built in the mutual interest of two brotherly and friendly countries. The friendship of two brotherly and friendly countries was built in the historical, cultural and spiritual sense and their relationships. The Russians settled in Serbia, architects, artists, scientists, literally rebirthed Serbia and left an outstanding mark, making a major contribution to the development of Serbian society and Serbian state, Serbian sciences, universities, ballet, operas, architecture, heraldics, as well as comic books and other scientific works. I will not speak of it individually, because you know what it is, and let me just say that King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, otherwise considered a Russian friend, is also supported by Serbian Patriarch Varna, the Russian home, the oldest cultural centre in Belgrade, opened in 1933. I'm undermining this. Dear People's MPs, there are 64 Russian homes in the world, which is very important. I ask the MPs to pay attention, not to disturb. But only the Belgrade Russian home is meant for the gathering of Serbs and Russians, none other than 64. What does that tell you, judge for yourself. Also, some of the most beautiful buildings and houses in Belgrade have been designed by Russian architects, you well know that I don't list them, but by 1925 in the Kingdom of SHS there were 17 Russian schools, whether it was small. Serbs and Russians as two peoples, this is a very important respected citizen to remember, they have never been in war conflicts. And you, the honourable Messengers of the people, are not wrong to obey, not to disturb. Many Serbs, following a sign of Orthodox religion, fled from the union to Tsar Russia where they founded Nova-Serbia and Slavno-Serby. Furthermore, Russia was the only foreign-political ally of Serbia during the 1st Serbian uprising in 1804-1813. Dear People's MPs, it is good to remember, our Serbian and Montenegrin Petar Petrovic Njegos referred to Peter Cetinjeski's amannet: "Pray to God and stick to Russia", because on March 6th 1833, in St Petersburg, you are the ruler of Montenegro and the hills, right, Serbian brothers in Montenegro and you who think you are Montenegrins? In the Serbian-Turkish war, in 1876, about 20,000 Russian volunteers participated, of which 1,000 officers. We move to Balkan wars in one sentence -- the Russians were in Serb ranks. Just the day after the Austrian ultimatum to Serbia on July 24th 1914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikolai II Romanov, who sent his famous reply on April 27th 1914, quote: "Russia will not leave Serbia in any way" completed a quote. Russia's role in World War II was immeasurable. Over 26 million lives have been given by the Russians for the liberation of fascism and built their lives into the foundations of freedom, even the liberation of a part of our country. For Belgrade's freedom, they gave over 1,000 lives. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the friendship of Serbs and Russians, among other things, is based on the fact that Serbs and Russians are a people of the same origin, the same blood, the same faith, almost the same letter and language, a similar culture, and that is what connects us, among other things. Let me mention our Serbian World Dosite Obradovic, who was the source of an attempt to start the spiritual life of the Serbian people in a Central European pro-Western direction. This is important for respected citizens to remember. He was a Westerner. He spoke several Western languages, admired English culture, claimed that English women are the best women in the world, but as soon as he moved to Serbia after he was called by Karadjordje, who is prone to Austria, he said, quote "Karajordrje turn to Russia" completed a quote. Further let me say at the end of this agreement about friendly Russia. If the world's painting was removed from Russian painting, the world would be darkened. If the world's music was removed from the world's music, the world would be deaf. If they removed Russian literature from world literature, the world would be neglected by respected citizens. If they threw out a Serbian Tesla out of the world's energy, the world would black out. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, Serbs made a huge contribution to the Russians and hit the foundations of the modern Russian state. Now you're gonna tell me what this guy's talking about. Just three sentences. First, Count Sava Vladislavic Raguzinski, a Serbian from Herzegovina, was the secretary of Russian Emperor Peter the Great, the ambassador of Russia to China, struck, demarcated China and Russia. Did he hit the ground? Yes, it is. Let's go second. General Count Mihajlo Miloradovic, a Serb from Herzegovina from Serbia, founded, believed or not the Russian intelligence service and was the most responsible in defending Moscow in 1812 from Napoleon. And by the way, out of 30 generals in Moscow's defence, ten generals were Serbs from Belgrade and other parts of Serbia. Third, Count Marko Vojinovic is the founder of the Russian Black Sea fleet. Dear People's MPs, here's a great contribution that we Serbs have made and struck the foundations together with brotherly Russia. I am taking the opportunity to thank the brotherly Russia, which in the UN Security Council has prevented the Serb people from being declared genocide, that this is what has happened to the distinguished ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of the bombing would continue, it continues today. We're going to another agreement. The second agreement is about the United States. In us Serbs, let me say two sentences, there is one very small number of scientists, so if you want historians, as I said, however few, whose scientific truth is above all and who will certainly not yield to the greatest countries of the West when it comes to scientific truths, as some politicians do today on certain televisions and who will at all costs expose war lies and bribery by the United States and Western allies, and even in the case of Racak, we heard yesterday and hung up on some television fiction. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, made up the inconclusive truth when he said, quote: "Voker invented that Serbs committed a crime in Račka, which was due to the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. “ He finished the quote and added: “Woker is a world hohstappler and a fraud” finished the quote. They asked me, distinguished citizens, to make a special point today. Dear People's MPs, historical science has already proven what Mr. Vukic said, and President Vukic knows it well, unlike those of the Alliance for Serbia. Why? This is important for you to hear respected citizens, because there is not one research paper, nor scientific paper, nor scientific book, which Mr. Alexander Vukic did not read unlike them. Now, that's the problem. For a short period of time, I will quote only two sources and that foreign implementation, on purpose I will not domestically, so that our political opponents do not say that we are subjective, which confirms the words of President Vukic. A German newspaper, called "Berliner Teatung", claims, quote, that Račak was invented, or staged and installed by the United States and Walker. I am using this opportunity to say, and the Bulgarian Intelligence Service, very little to you, is it not strange for you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that this affair, under quotes about Krusik, is a involved journalist right from Bulgaria, who was spoken of by honourable MP Aleksandar Martinovic. What does that tell you? You're smart people, figure out what this is about. This German newspaper managed to find the report of Helena Ranta's autopsy, led by a Finnish team of experts. And look at the wonders, the autopsy report was wanted for a year. And today it's under wraps, it's not available. But this list was made available to 60 pages of the most important. At the end of that part, he was read to him, but he saw this list, or his journalists, as it were. Ranta failed to publish the autopsy report, because it was under terrible political pressure not to do so. She, as you know, confirmed it. The German newspaper "Berliner Teatung" claims, since he had an insight into it, that only one body had wounds, pay attention to this, which could be, I underline, could be, caused by a close-up shot, i.e. at the execution. They didn't claim it, but they could have been. According to another source, one French journalist, I quote: "The truth is that I was in Račka on the day of the alleged execution and that I found only four wounded persons." I'm undermining all four wounded. "But nothing like mass killing," finished the quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what happened in the meantime? This is very important, to pay attention. Meanwhile, Hashim Thaci, the leader of the criminal KLA, said then, quotes: "We have many victims, but they have also had Serbs," the German list said. So there's nothing to talk about shooting civilians. This list was published by 14. Three. In 2000. Thaci confessed, in an interview with BBC, 24. 3. In 2000, I quote, "The large group of KLAs worked in Račka and many soldiers lost their lives in the fight with Yugoslav forces," the quote ended. So a lot of soldiers lost their lives, not civilians. And the BBC adds, I quote, "The KLA deliberately killed Albanian peasants to gain sympathy from the West," a quote concluded. Dear citizens, you can see what kind of subroutine it is. "The incident in Račka demanded preparation and was revived in an effort to pressure European allies to intervene," the quote concluded, i.e. We bombed our country, says Dr. Peter Bein in one of his scientific papers. Is there anything unclear, Mr. Thaci, if you're listening to what I'm saying? Is it true that you made these statements back then or not? I quote now Diana Johnston from the book "Suludi Cruises", 2005, page 312 to 331: "Helena Ranta in June 2000 said there were no signs of execution and that bodies were brought from other locations and that NATO classified its final version of the report", finished the quote. And, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, she confessed to the esteemed Ranta what was, who had her classification of her report carried out, and that's why she was kept secret. This is in favor of what the president of the state said - that Walker is a world hohstappler. I'd add -- and a white-world bastard, who I'm not going to talk about very much about, because there are more important things than this Walker. But let's say something about him, because one of our distinguished colleagues, the MP who rarely comes here, he comes when it comes to criticising the government and the president, on one television, praised Walker, two days ago, if you listened, and besides, he brought out the thesis about the Genesis brothers, the one that Natasa Kandic brought out, and the Bulgarian Intelligence Service and the United States. That's what I'm going to say at the end of two sentences. However, let us, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, say who this villain Walker is. Walker was indeed a white-world bastard and a fraud. Why? He didn't just set the duck together with them, he saw pretty creepy horrors in Central America, in quotes I say this... (President: Time, Professor, bring an end. )......................................................................................................... Is there time, tell me? (President: You don't. Unfortunately, you spent it. You've got another minute. ) Then, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only in the end to conclude. Clinton married his daughter in May 2010, and he said, quote: "My daughter, she is happy and I can be happier," a quote concluded, Clinton proudly said. In his enthusiasm for immeasurable happiness, those unfortunate Serbian mothers and fathers in Serbia, Republika Srpska, Croatia and around the world, whose daughters would never stand before the mother, as his fascist missiles cut them to pieces. If nothing, he should have remembered his mother, Milica Rakic, whose daughter would never stand before the mother, because it was blown up by his missiles. And the last sentence, Your Honor, I'm sure if Clinton and Walker are human beings, and they probably are, they'll probably be haunted by their conscience all their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67101	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word, given that we have exhausted all colleagues on the list? The word is Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67102	I don't know what you're thinking, Mr. Marinkovic, I got away with it very quickly. We have today had the opportunity to hear some things that are not quite clear, especially in light of these new trends of transparency, democracy, which we have been taught through these dialogues by EU representatives. First, we heard today that the Nish-Merdare highway is going to cut our column at the crossing. We're curious about who these crossings are, what are those columns and what are they waiting for? What are those crossing points? Are these border crossings? What's going on over there? What is that transition between Serbia and Serbia or is that some new light, but we could hear it? We heard today from one prominent MP that we'll see in a month or two that the party has a rating. It is Mr Arsic, his analyses are always fundamental and fundamental, but I am afraid it is not true either, because he does not know it because he will have to consult through dialogue with representatives of the European Parliament, former MEPs, and representatives of NGOs, because they are unfortunately at the head of all this and lead the main word not only in the Assembly, but probably in the government, ministries and other places as well. So it's no longer hidden. So they ask themselves, and what will happen on the agenda, how long the debates will last, who will participate in them, when after that there will be elections, who can, who can't go to the elections, how the campaign will be conducted, what can be done in the campaign, what can't be done. They know everything, and we don't know anything. So much for your independence, sovereignty, etc. We have only one question to ask, can the government of Serbia and Mr. Djordjevic, perhaps, or some representative of the government, what is the public debt currently in Serbia? How long is it supposed to be under the Constitution, and how long has this government, when I say this government, been thinking not only of this government, Ana Brnabic, but of the Progressive Government, since 2012, how much has this government been in charge? How is it possible, if true, that we are champions of the region in investment, in standards, pensions, wages, in GDP growth, if we are the strongest, how is it possible that we are again and again in debt under increasingly unfavourable conditions? We have signed a series of agreements with others, not only the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So there are some other actors, I guess. We talked yesterday about public procurement and transparency, etc., and today we don't know how the government came to this agreement with the Frankfurt Bank? So, what's this deal with the Frankfurt Bank in a row? The government prefers that bank even though it's not the same conditions. So, what happens to us is that we have some uninvolved assets, but we still have interest and we pay interest on those funds? Is that true? Is that our experience in co-operation with the Frankfurt Bank? We have signed a series of agreements in this conference, i.e. Ratifiers. So transparency is good when it comes to public procurement, but when it comes to these agreements – no, it just comes here and nobody knows how it happened, especially when we have some abnormal things. So we're in charge, we're raising loans under unfavourable conditions, and then he tells us in the agreement, so we're going to find consultants now, because these are consulting services, that's what this agreement provides. The Bank therefore recommends hiring specialised and experienced consultants to assist during the preparation and implementation of the project. What does it mean to be experienced under this agreement? What does that mean? So now we're in charge of them, they're bringing tutors here, what's anybody gonna do, and it's all from that loan being paid. So, everything, not just this project. How is that possible? Why is that paid? We've heard some accusations that we're saying that everything is automatically positive, as far as Russia is concerned, about China, that we're not looking at the reality of who gives more money, who invests, etc. I'm not saying that everything is automatically positive, but our experience in these 19 years has taught us that when we are in such relationships, which are about borrowing and investment, we are doing much better in collaboration with the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation than with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the European Investment Bank. That's what our experience taught us. We must be in charge and make arrangements with these European banks because it is one way of political conditioning of the Serbian government, because it is openly said – you are on a European path, you are candidates for EU membership, you are opening chapters, please, the European Bank. Everything else is out of the question, because if we focus tomorrow, maybe it'll be our priority to cooperate with some others, where we'd have better conditions, we'd be told from the EU -- if you do that, you'll be under sanctions, you'll be blacklisted, we won't think of you as partners anymore. Because even when you're being robbed from the EU, it's democratic, fair, advanced and in line with European values, and if you're working somewhere on equal grounds, then you're part of some dark, third, evil, aggressive and hostile world. This is the EU's perspective. What are the biggest investments in Serbia? We boast here that it is, is, but Western Europe, they give us money, the EU gives us donations. We heard Mrs Joksimovic, they say – grants. So they gave us some gifts, and that's why we should be on the European path. Does anyone in their right mind think money can bow without expecting anything in return? That's, of course, impossible. If that's clear, how can we boast of the grants? What kind of grants? We, if we don't maybe pay the interest, we'll pay it in some other way, by preferring these banks, by meeting some other priorities, by hiring some European companies at the expense of some others. That way we'll pay for it, we won't get that money for free. The biggest investments in Serbia today do not come from Western Europe, do not come from the United States, but come right from Russia and China. What would be the condition of the Iron Man in Smederev if the company hadn't taken over the Chinese company Habis? Alexander Vukic spoke of it as a cancer of our economy, that we spend abnormal money on a monthly level only for these salaries and that "The Irons" works, that we are desperate to find partners. First came the Americans, i.e. These other "Esmark" when US Steel returned it for one dollar to Serbia. They wanted to do something similar to US Steel, yes, of course, to rob something else that could be robbed, and to get the profits out, the company wasn't interested. When the Chinese company came, since it's probably clear to everyone, when Chinese companies come, they don't come to make money in a day, two or three, but they're working on a long deadline and they're interested in profit and they're interested in staying there. That's the situation with RTB Bor. So five thousand and more employees who wouldn't have a job today if they hadn't come there, too, the Chinese. Right? And those others who wanted to come, they were just meant to rob the property. Who is more full of Serbia's budget than the Oil Industry of Serbia, so "Gasprom Njefta"? And we are still mistaken that, in fact, by focusing on the EU and on orientation towards the EU, we are actually guaranteed a better life, foreign investment, etc. So it just doesn't go with each other. We had recently, since we're talking about this Nis Merdara highway now, we just had a case with the Moravia Corridor. So, absolutely non-transparently, through a direct contract, the Serbian government chooses, therefore, without any competition, with a call made so that only "Bechtel" can pass it, selecting "Bechtel" which is at least 250m euros more expensive, because we have already seen it, and in public, this information has emerged, that the project is worth about 500m euros, and the price the Serbian government is now going to pay is 745. There can't be an argument against it – well, we're going to have a highway now, that's 500 thousand people are going to be connected by the highway, you know what that means for that end. That's true. The highway is needed, these people who live in the area, but no one needs to be robbed. So not all of what you were saying about public procurement in the Bechtella case was applied. Will we again have such a situation for this Nish-Medara highway, especially since we had announcements a few years ago that this highway will be paid by some other means, that it will not pay for Serbia? The first time the idea came up, it was said that Serbia would not pay for it. How now? That, of course, is not Serbia's priority, that highway. It's a wish and an idea that came up after the first Brussels negotiations. I'm not saying it's unnecessary, but it's certainly not a priority. We, if the responsible government had considered some things about our travel infrastructure, would have noticed that today the Borski and Zajcar County, in terms of travel infrastructure, is Serbia's appendix. Why is this part of Serbia completely decommissioned from all this planning and how far away it is, for example. Nish or Kladov or Majdanpek from Belgrade, and how long does it take to get there? What's our guarantee now that there won't be a direct deal again? Since we know from the experiences of some other countries that "Bechtel" when it comes, then it becomes absolutely the only competitor, that it completely pushes the competition out, and that it is then asked about all the business of building highways. There can't be a direct contract. We heard Alexander Wolfie. While he was Prime Minister, he said that some 40m euros, i.e., were stolen on the LJig-Preljina stock. that that highway was subscribed for about 40 million, and now the Moravia Corridor has been subscribed for about 250 million. How does it distinguish SNS from DS? It doesn't make any difference. Eight times now is just a bigger price. We here boast of some economic successes, a high standard, a growth that is greater than German, what we can hear from the section “believe it or not”, and then when we see reality, we see that we are increasingly in debt. When we are in charge, of course, of these European banks, since our patrons, which is the EU, are responsible for this, we are consciously agreeing that, under worse conditions, we are taking money. If you were, for example. One government has regained awareness and reconsidered its orientation towards the EU, it might have noticed, not only that Europe is no longer the richest part of the world, but that there is one huge investment plan, among the largest in history, which is the Chinese Belt and Road, which is just aimed at this part of Europe. It's mostly about travel infrastructure, but it's about everything else. Instead of us trying to be the main Chinese partners in the Balkans and Eastern, Southeastern Europe, to be the hub of everything the Chinese will bring and do here, no, we continue to stick to what was the same plan in 2001. So Europe has no alternative, Europe is good, non-European is bad. It's the main maxes of both these governments and the DSS and since 2000 absolutely nothing has changed about it. Not all that comes from Brussels automatically well, and especially not everything is positive for Serbian citizens as it is presented. In our experience, we know that's not the case. First, how many times they've lied to us. They are lying to us today, lying to us that our reforms, by opening chapters, by passing some laws in the Assembly, will bring the process closer to the EU. He won't. They won't, because there's nothing going on since that expansion, the curtain has fallen and the EU's question has been raised. The European Union is now going through its disintegration and they have no idea that they are receiving new members. They look at Serbia only in a place where they can make some profit. This profit can be drawn in a way that companies from Europe are working here and are much cheaper to pay workers here for 250 euros than 1,500 euros in one of the Western European countries and will always keep us on a short leash because they need us for it. They are automatically privileged to get jobs here, all of which include 15,000 euros in job subsidies. It is Serbia's main role in the European integration process here and nothing else. Why would we accept and fulfill everything unspeakable, if we can already see that there is some alternative to the foreign policy plan? Exactly what is obvious is the fact that exactly the biggest investment in Serbia, the ones that pay the most in the budget, those who employ the most people and those who have already proven themselves serious about their intention to do business in our country, that they will not just take profits and leave are not from the EU. So they're from Russia and China. The oil industry of Serbia, Bor and Smederevo, is that enough? All that was said by Alexander Vucic, as the biggest problems, about Bor and Smederev. He said, if we don't solve it, it's our growth, it's our economy, it's about unemployment, everything else, debt, what he didn't say. Our friends in Western Europe, under whose pressure we have to make arrangements with European banks, have not helped us solve these problems, but these others have. Why? Did we have to give anything in return? We didn't. How, then, it is not clear what should be done in our foreign policy without talking about the Kosovo issue and the Nis-Merdare highway, which is also one of the good steps Serbia is doing to approve one of Kosovo's Albanians or EU representatives. They're going to see their chance and I wouldn't be surprised if we had a direct contract again, so, without competition, signing the protocol, and again, as with the Moravia Corridor, a special law so that some American or Western European company would get that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67103	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Therefore, I can freely conclude a common principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 13 to 19 of the agenda. We are moving on to the next joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 20 to 36 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the members of the Government are invited to attend all members of the Government with their associates, and this is: Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Milica Djurdjevic, Executive Director of the Treasury Office at the Ministry of Finance; Ivana Acimović, Deputy Director of the Treasury Office at the Ministry of Finance; Natasa Škembarevic and Vera Vukčević Gligorić, Head of the Treasury Office at the Ministry of Finance, and Olga Kostic, Head of the Group at the Treasury Office. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for the 2004 budget, Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2005, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, Proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2008, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2009, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2010, Proposal for a Law on the Final Account of the Final Budget of the Republic of Serbia for the Year 2017. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67104	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda includes a set of draft laws of the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2002 to 2018. The adoption of the final account proposal and the consistent respect for the budget calendar are not only part of good budgetary practice, but also of the government's legal obligation. In order not to cast a shadow on the uncontested good budgetary results that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved in the last three years, by a united proposal for final accounts that is before you finally enable the Republic of Serbia to start, both a period of respect for the rules in the area of the budget calendar and a period of complete transparency of information on the consumption of planned funds. The period for which the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia were drawn up from 2002 to 2018 in Serbia was marked by major changes. First, there was a change of state order. From 2002 to 2006, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Final Account Act was contained in Article 73(3) and Article 90(3). The 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In 2003, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ceased to exist and an agreement was signed on the formation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. After that, in 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided to declare the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There have been changes in existing laws and sublaws since 2002, which regulate the area of reporting on the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, the DRI was founded in 2005 as an independent and independent state body. However, what did not substantially change between 2002 and 2018 was the content of the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The period for which the final accounts were drawn up from 2002 to 2018 in Serbia was marked by major fluctuations in public finances. The following budgetary results have been achieved per year. In 2002, a budget deficit of 40.3 billion dinars or 98.9% planned. In 2003, the budget deficit is 42.9 billion dinars or 91.5% of the planned deficit. In 2004, the budget deficit is 22.1 billion dinars or 67.5% planned. In 2005, a fiscal surplus of 40.9 billion dinars or 87% planned. In 2006, a fiscal surplus of 96.9 billion dinars or 70% planned. In 2007, a budget surplus of 13.2 billion dinars, a planned budget deficit of 13.7 billion dinars. At the end of 2008, the budget deficit is recorded in the budget, which is 40.5 billion dinars or 88.5% planned. The period of the coming years marks the trend of deficit growth. In 2009, the budget deficit is 86.5 billion dinars or 82.5% of the planned deficit. In 2010, the fiscal deficit is 105 billion dinars or 87.4% of the planned deficit. In 2011, the fiscal deficit is 135.9 billion dinars or 95.2% of the planned deficit. To record a fiscal deficit of 196.4 billion dinars or 96.5% of the planned deficit at the end of 2012. In 2013, after five years, the Republic of Serbia's budget recorded a decline in the fiscal deficit of an absolute amount of 173.8 billion dinars or 97.4% of the planned deficit at the end of the year. At the end of 2014, an estimated same fiscal deficit of 174.3 billion dinars representing 77.5 per cent of the planned deficit was recorded. During 2015, a 36-month stand-by arrangement with the IMF totalling around 1 billion 168m euros was supported in support of the economic programme for the period 2015 to 2017. The arrangement was concluded by precautionary means without the intention of using the appropriations except in the case of the country's payment needs. The arrangement was successfully completed on 23 February 2018. The resources available have not been used. In the short term, the programme focused on controlling the expenditure on earnings and pensions, improving the tax administration and reducing subsidies to public enterprises, and the government of the Republic of Serbia began to address long-standing structural problems in managing public finances. During the duration of the precautionary arrangements with the IMF, the overall fiscal outcome of both the general government sector and the republican budget is also monitored according to the programme methodology, was defined in a memorandum on economic and financial policy, i.e. in a technical memorandum of understanding. A third year in a row, more precisely since 2017, the Republic of Serbia's budget at the end of the year has achieved a surplus in the state register. The fiscal surplus at the end of 2017 was 35.5 billion dinars, and a deficit of 69.1 billion dinars was planned. The fiscal surplus at the end of 2018 was 32.9 billion dinars, and a 28.4 billion dinar deficit was planned. A positive balance in the state register was created as a result of the host management of public finances and the ability of the government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to fiscal challenges, making it clear that Serbia is entering a period of sustainability of public finances. If we look at the revenue side of the budget, we can confirm that the 2002 income and income plan was 2.87 billion euros, and in 2018 it was 9.97 billion euros. Tax revenues have the highest participation in all years of the observed period. Other income and income are recorded to increase the rate of borrowing in total income and income from 2008 to 6.3%, with a view to reaching the highest percentage of borrowing income in 2013, 42.1%. In the next period, there is a decline of 24.1% of total income and income in 2018. Privatization incomes were higher in total income and income in 2002 6.4%, 11.3% in 2003, 6.4% in 2005 and 19% in 2006. The period from 2002 to 2018 saw a significant decline in the share of expenditure based on donations, donations and transfers. In 2002, their total participation was 302% and in 2018 was 18.2 total expenditure and expenditure. The PIO Fund, due to an increase in employment in the previous period, generates higher revenues through the payment of contributions, while unemployment has been reduced in the last three years and it is 9.5% in the last quarter, thus less demanding funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This fact results in less participation of these expenditures in total expenditures and expenditures. The contribution of expenditure based on grants, donations and transfers was the largest in the period from 2002 to 2013. From 2013 to 2018, the highest participation in total expenditure and expenditure shall be expenditure on the payment of the principal. The received donation report is part of the completion of the accounts. The European Union is the largest donor in Serbia, but also one of Serbia's most important partners in support of development and ongoing reforms. As a candidate for EU membership, the Republic of Serbia received in 2014 accreditation for the use of instruments for EU pre-accession assistance, IPA funds, aimed at strengthening democratic institutions, rule of law and freedom, gender equality, state administration reform and implementation of economic reforms, civil society development and improving regional and cross-border co-operation. Realisation of projects financed with EU funding takes several years. Given that they are strictly conditional, they are recorded in business books, allowing for the transparency of their realisation. The component of my accounts is also a report on domestic and foreign loans and debt repayments. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia is constantly falling from 2002 to 2008 thanks to a significant inflow of funds from the privatisation process and good fiscal results. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia at the central level of government at the end of 2002 was 11.5 billion euros, i.e. 709.2 billion dinars. Public debt participation of the central government in GDP at the end of 2005 was 47.6%, 33.9% in 2006, 27.9% in 2007 and 26.8% at the end of 2008. During the observed period, the majority of the public debt is due on the basis of old foreign exchange savings, reprogrammed obligations towards Paris and the London Club of Trustees and loans taken from international financial institutions. From 2009 to 2015, due to the result of the global economic crisis and the reduction of economic activity, there is a rapid rise in public debt to cover the deficit in the state register. The Republic of Serbia has started intensively broadcasting state records of value on the domestic market since 2009 to ensure funding, and from 2011 to 2013 it emits euro bonds on the international financial market for the lack of coverage. The public debt of central government expressed in euro at the end of 2009 was 9.8 billion euros in 2010, 12.2 billion euros in 2011, 14.8 billion euros in 2012, 17.7 billion euros in 2013, 20.1 billion euros in 2014, 22.8 billion euros, at the end of 2015. Due to the underdevelopment of the domestic paper market of values, high interest rates on the international financial market, poor fiscal results and investor perceptions, the Republic of Serbia is in debt during this period on the domestic market of securities of value, with considerable unfavourable conditions, with their improvement year-on-year. As a result, the Republic of Serbia for the first time on the international financial market in 2011, broadcasting a Eurobond in US dollars, a ten-year maturity, with an interest rate of 7.25%. During 2012 and 2013, new Eurobonds in US dollars were also broadcast on the international market and the re-opening of Eurobond emissions was made in 2012. The maturity of eurobonds was five, seven and ten years, with coupon rates of 4.875%, up to 7.25%, and the total debt on the basis of new eurobonds on the international financial market at the end of 2013 was $5.25 billion. As a result of increased activity on the domestic and international market of securities of value, the participation of securities of value in the total public debt becomes dominant, i.e. It increased from 8.9% at the end of 2008, to 45.9% at the end of 2013, while at the end of 2015 it was 51.5%. Between 2009 and 2015, there was a rise in the guaranteed public debt due to the takeover of certain public enterprises that had major financial problems, such as JP "Srbigas", "Galenika" A.D. and others. The issue of liquidity guarantees, resulting in a guaranteed debt of 928.7m euros, at the end of 2008, at 2.8 billion euros at the end of 2013. There is a stagnation and an intense fall in the guaranteed debt since 2015. Starting in 2015, guarantees are issued only for projects, i.e. investment loans, i.e. the issue of guarantees for loans for current liquidity to public undertakings has been suspended. The fiscal consolidation measures taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia have conditioned a fall in public debt both in absolute and relative terms since 2016, which has been caused to the greatest extent by positive fiscal results, during calendar years. The public debt of the central government, expressed in euro at the end of 2016, amounted to 24.8 billion euros, 23.2 billion in 2017 and 23 billion euros in 2018. The public debt of the central government, expressed in dinars at the end of those years was 3,064.6 billion dinars in 2016, 2,751.1 billion dinars in 2017 and 2,720.2 billion dinars in 2018. The public, central debt level of government in GDP in the observed period has dropped significantly due to growth in economic activity and public debt reduction, and at the end of 2016 it was 67.8%, 57.9%, and 53.8% at the end of 2018 and has a further trend of decline. Continued and active public debt management has led to significant improvements, indicators related to public debt. The guaranteed public debt fell from 2.8 billion euros at the end of 2013, to 1.5 billion euros at the end of 2018. Participation in interest costs in the gross domestic product fell from 2.9% at the end of 2015 to 2.1% at the end of 2018. This was primarily due to the decline of interest rates on the domestic securities market, which was largely caused by investor confidence growth following fiscal consolidation measures. The share of public debt, in domestic currency in the total public debt of the central government, was only 2.8% at the end of 2008, and increased to 26% by the end of 2018. The growth of the dinar debt was primarily contributed to the emissions of dinar state charters from values on the domestic securities market. Thanks to the conduct of domestic securities market development policy, it is possible to establish continuity in financing the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as to improve funding through emissions from long-term dinar state charters to values on the domestic financial market. The transition from short-term funding sources linked to the period until 2010, to medium- and long-term financing instruments, with a constant reduction in debt costs, has affected the reduction of the risk of refinancing, as one of the primary risks in the public debt management process. In line with all the above, I would point out that during this year, the Republic of Serbia issued Eurobonds in June of one billion euros per 10 years, with a rate of 1.6-1.9%, and then in November the re-opening of a June Eurobond denominated in euro amounting to 550 million, when the interest from the initial 1.45% in the course of trade was reduced to 1.25%. The total demand in June was six times the bid. I note that in 2011 the Republic of Serbia issued euro bonds in US dollars for a 10-year period, with an interest rate of 7.25% on the financial market. The first official report on the financial audit of the final account of the Republika Srpska budget, which was carried out by the DRI, was the 2008 final account. Since then, DRI has regularly audited the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget every year. I hope that in these days ahead of us, we will have a constructive, reasoned debate in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I invite you to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67105	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals are above all glad and we won't hide it, which is what the final accounts are for the National Assembly. Why are we glad? Because since 2016 we have insisted that the Assembly discuss final accounts. We've always warned, there's no point, there's no point in discussing the budget law if we haven't passed the final bill. And here, finally, after so much persistent struggle and insistence of the SRS, we have final accounts. They end up in front of themselves because they are in plural, from 2002 to 2018. It is not the Assembly, this highest House of Legislative, who did not discuss how and in what way the funds were spent, and then, no less, how and how these funds were received. We talked about budgets, about proposals for new budgets, and we didn't know how the funds were spent in previous periods, in what way. It's always been shown the way the current government wanted it or how they wanted to model it, so they can show us that it's great, wonderful, or what they would say is ideal. We Serbian radicals are always talking, there's no reason to hide. There's no reason. Why would it hide from the public that these are the funds collected from taxpayers and in what way have they been used, for which purposes have they been used? How's he doing with those funds? What does the deficit mean, what surplus? What are these factors that have affected the spending of funds from the budget framework? We listened here to praise that over the next few years there was a surplus, and we Serbian radicals then made it clear, it is not good in continuity to have a surplus, as it is not a deficit. The budget should be balanced so that there is no difference between income and expenditure and if there are, they are minimal. And that's an ideal 36/3 MG/VZ budget and it's not a problem for any government, and especially for the Ministry of Finance to do, to balance that budget to know exactly how much it takes to function this state, how much it takes for the beneficiaries of the budget, how much it takes for capital investment, etc. Without the final account, the preliminary examination of the final account, everything is done by believing in the proposal's word, i.e. the one who explains the draft budget. We've got a bunch of final accounts ahead of us. Unfortunately, the fact is that we cannot discuss the budgets and final accounts more closely from 2000 to 2018, by making sure that these data are accurate, especially from 2002 to 2008. It should be taken with the reserve, even those from the State Auditing Institution say, that it is very difficult to discuss this with greater reliability. These are data based on daily reports, i.e. monthly exacts, on the basis of these monthly spending reports, a final account could be made in the earlier period. But what's interesting is that in this picture of the final account, we see that there's a lot of things done on the income side, and there's no real explanation for it, or there's no real basis for such increased income. Everyone's goal is to make as much income as possible, while keeping in mind that you don't overload citizens and taxpayers. Each normal thinks that as little credit as possible should be in charge, allow the state to operate on its own on the basis of what happens in its economy, based on the development of domestic economy and domestic production. But we have here on the receiving side some things that are worth the attention to informing the public and explaining to her. In fact, we have these non-tax incomes that are of different origins. What should be shown in the final account, which is true, in detail all revenues, sources of these revenues and the amount of these revenues. We have here in part when it comes to public enterprises and state-owned enterprises, i.e. public enterprises under the authority of the state, we have a partial representation of how many companies they've paid in the budget, we don't have in detail. We don't have all the public enterprises and all the state-owned enterprises. We have, say, in the earlier period that he was paying Telecom, and now we have no data except that she was paying the NBS. We have in one period, looking earlier, not to go back so much, we have that she was paying "Electro-price". Namely, what does this matter? It is important to see what the structure of these revenues is in the revenue side of public and state-owned enterprises for the reason that public enterprises, such as Elektroprivreda, are presented in the public opinion that there are certain problems in business, in operation, and we see that during this very period when they presented these big problems to the public, they were investing in the budget as surplus revenues. Then it is illogical where this surplus appears in Elektroprivreda, and on the other hand, Elektroprivreda is looking for help in loans, directly from budget funds. Then, in one period and as it was handled with reliable information that "Electro-Ecore" was credited, on the basis of these credit loans, the surplus in the budget was managed as budget revenue, and this caused great confusion in the functioning of other public enterprises as well. Namely, when it comes to the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia, which has paid off certain funds, it is precisely known, there is a knowledge of nature, there is a source of how and how these funds have been achieved. Now, we have something that's very indicative, it's that some extraordinary, non-taxable incomes, they've been paid or achieved in a much larger proportion than planned. So we have four billion of these revenues planned, and 20 billion are paid. Now, when we look at the structure, we know that one comes from broadcasting paper of value, what the minister read in reason, that's when it comes to broadcasting paper of value and these are revenues that are much larger than planned. So, it would be good to explain how and how in the next period, and based on these reports, plans to act when it comes to broadcasting securities of value. There is one tendency, which is that Eurobonds have grown terribly. The broadcasting of Eurobonds has grown terribly. Generally looking at the domestic market, much more paper than value is planned. It is one way to finance this state's needs and budget needs, as they would say, with non-tax revenues. It's good until the moment the state can control it in the sense that the state can truly cover these obligations that involve the broadcasting of securities of value, but it can also be a boomerang, to return in an unsolicited way by essentially borrowing, re-locating, not at the moment when it comes to realisation, to the collection of these securities of values, or Eurobonds, that is some period, and long-term ones from 26 years of age, and beyond, I hope not, although the citizens will decide, I hope that this government will not lead the state by then and be at the head of this country, not presonally, but generally. So what do we do when he comes to collect, and the state can't serve its obligations? It is nice to talk to the public that fiscal policy is led in this way, that there are much higher revenues than expenditures, so in about three years, since 2015, 2016, 2017, they show up as year surpluses. The bottom line is that the surplus is just coming from this part of the record broadcast. As for some of the things that are related to land expropriation, we see that it is now current, especially when it comes to this Moravia corridor. We also had an urgent procedure to decide to allocate certain funds to pay for the land that would be needed to build the Moravia Corridor. The public and we MPs to these final accounts were deeply convinced that the most funds, when it comes to expropriation, stand out precisely for these highways, for those infrastructure facilities that primarily relate to traffic. However, here in this analysis, the most resources were found to be allocated for land expropriation for the purposes of "Beeding on Water". It's something that's very interesting and interesting. Not for the reason that we would like to continue to elaborate this "Beograda on Water", but it needs to be a clean bill, to know how much the state has invested initial capital to launch this project called "Belgrade on Water". Then there are a number of conclusions, depending on which side you are looking at, in any case it is not something that is negligible, because these are the huge funds that the Republic of Serbia, not to speak to the city of Belgrade, invested when it comes to the project. As far as these expenditures are concerned, we have something that is very interesting, let's say, until 2008, in expenditures, when these monthly reports were presented, for example, the release, for example, the release from paying VAT to young couples who solve their housing problem and by the logic of things and by the legality of accounts as a subsidy by the state. We've been here in these final accounts since this government, and especially for 2018, we don't have a clear situation when it comes to subsidies. We don't have a detailed view, not only of this part of housing, solving a housing problem, it's the least of it, but we don't have for that so-called. foreign investors, when it comes to state-sponsored subsidies, we do not have how many investors have been given the name of subsidies. We have some general story, some general place that the state has singled out, that the state had to do it to attract foreign investors, and it's all right, but let's see how many of these investors are named by subsidies. It has to be in the final account. The final account must contain this, to be said in 2018, on behalf of state subsidies it gave to that and to that investor, so much and so much. It has to be clear, it has to be transparent. We always listen to how much more favourable we are because other than those conditions relating to building land other than the labour price, we give subsidies. How many subsidies we've given together, and how individually we're to every investor, no one knows. We've been having a debate here not to say for years, we're literally bidding on whether 5,000 per employee euro is given, it's either Euros or it's been given 10,000 or maybe more. This is an opportunity, and this is an obligation for the final account to show this, clearly showing how many investors it has received from the Serbian state in the name of subsidies. What's very important, and that's that in the area of budget reserves there are huge resources, that's something that's indicative of the functioning of this government, it's also seen in the final account. In the final account for 2018, we see that this is about budget reserves of 400m euros. Excuse me, gentlemen, this is a very large amount of money available, and it is not subject to many procedures, among other things, to the transparency procedure or to something that would imply that a competition is being opened for the award of that money. The 400m euros were divided in the way that the government or not to say an individual at the moment decides to give someone, whether in the form of subsidies, whether on behalf of some payment obligations, we do not have it in the final account shown. They're big, they're huge. We can't exactly have confidence, with the fact that, when it comes to reserves, budget reserves, we'll see if we follow this year, we'll see a growth trend of 1.5%, which is normal compared to the total funds in the budget, we have 4% of the reserves in 2018 compared to the total funds in the budget. Which is, you'll admit very large. If this compares with any other information relating to certain revenues, then we'll see, and above all what we wanted to warn about, it's public enterprises, then we'll start thinking about actually operating two parallel systems in Serbia. When it comes to the budget and the payment of funds from the budget framework for budgetary commitments, and when it comes to those assets that are not under control, these are primarily the funds in the name of the revenue generated by public undertakings. No one knows how, let's just say, specifically, I say again the electricity industry of that surplus if it complains of difficulties and no one knows how these funds from the budget reserves are spent. Secondly, on the receiving side, you see it yourself, you have something that's very interesting, which is when it comes to education, when it comes to education, you have an increase in income here. Outside the budget on behalf of the services, on behalf of the sale of assets, and so on, we have an increase in revenue in that part. In fact, when you look at and analyze, these funds that are related to education and education, they are mostly divided to increase personal incomes, to increase income. Then we have a simple fact that they pay a percentage of the budget not by 10% but by over 10%. Now look, 9.5% is allowed. So they have some assets that are out of control. Look at that, minister, there are assistants who can help you, and you'll see for yourself that they're not small funds. These are the funds that are due by renting facilities, for example, physical halls, these are funds in the name of services in education are realised, and these funds are out of budget and these funds are shared to increase the reception of educational workers. When you look at that relative to the total funds, it crosses that allowed limit. So we can talk about it, analyze it, but in any case, our satisfaction is that the SRS finally managed to afford to discuss the final account in the Serbian Parliament, not to get into how anyone will look at these final accounts reports. We have made some of our principled remarks, and in further discussions, we will most likely point to certain cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67107	Thank you. The word now has a folk MP, Professor Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67108	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I am one of those who will say that I commend that we have final budget accounts in the debate at the National Assembly. To remind the MPs, the last final account to be discussed and adopted in the Assembly was in 2001. Since 2002 and back here, we haven't had final accounts to argue with. True, the government delivered final accounts by 2015, but they never came to the agenda, and since 2015, the government has not even delivered final accounts here. To keep the public from thinking that she did something special, the finance ministry is the one that gives its reports on budget implementation. Any citizen of Serbia can see how much the revenue budget, which they spend, and how these funds are spent. I stress this for the simple reason that the budget was still under control. The state audit institution was established in 2008 and has audited all budgets since 2008, in fact in 2009 until 2018. Please, just a little quiet. I'm very glad that your credit has come to these final accounts. I will not say that I did not insist and wish, simply, that is the order of activities done by this ruling coalition, which clearly presents all the details transparently, all the things that Serbian citizens need to know, especially in financial consolidation. One of the most important results this ruling coalition has achieved is precisely these results in financial consolidation. If you're looking at these final accounts then you can see clearly what was going on in our country's economy. Here's why I say it. First, the final accounts are very important, they give us final information on revenues, expenditures, proper use of funds and, of course, these final accounts have been discovered and so on. indirect users, who were hidden somewhere, and we didn't know how much money was spent on these indirect users. Of course, this refers to schools, colleges, social institutions, those funds that these institutions made were mostly spent on salaries, or on investments. It's a good thing it went into capital investments. What's very good about these final accounts, which I must stress, is that it's a real gold mine of information and that information they're talking about for a time, about funds, about spending and about the seriousness of a state, about the state telling citizens where and how it spends its resources. These are permanent documents, and it's likely that science and profession here will have an inexhaustible source of data, and I have to commend these final accounts, regardless of all the things that have been said here. You know, the budget is one of the most important laws to be passed. The budget affects the country's economic activities, but also the country's reverse economic activities affect the budget, so that we can see in the final account a real blood count for the period. Serbian citizens must know that as one serious coalition, we do things together. In order to bring one budget, you have to have a fiscal strategy, you have to have a final account for the previous year and after that, we just have a budget that we're adopting here in the Assembly. There's a budget calendar. I must say, it never happened that the budget was adopted much earlier than the budget calendar says. By December 15th, we had to adopt the budget. We adopted him a long time ago, and I must especially emphasize and commend it. And not only did we adopt it earlier, but the budget arrived on time in the National Assembly, and the MPs had plenty of time to discuss everything, all the items in the budget, speak. We also have independent bodies that discussed it, so we had a quality and good discussion and that's what I particularly want to stress. Why do I say that? I'm saying because the budget is very important, I said, it affects the economy. When you analyze these budgets, the final accounts, then you can divide it into some three parts. The budgets from 2002 to 2007 had good fiscal results. There were surpluses, there were no deficits. You know why? It was a privatisation. Where were those funds spent? Are the funds spent on capital investments? Did we have finished highways then, did we have to work on the railways? No, I don't. The funds were pushed into consumption, spending went higher and higher, and eventually the economic crisis came, the global economic crisis in 2008, the country couldn't borrow again very quickly, and we were already close to bankruptcy. This is the period from 2008 to 2013. In that period, we are often told that this global economic crisis is a developmental opportunity for us. No, we're in charge of 76% of GDP. Please, we're on our way to financial consolidation in 2014 and what have we done? Very quickly, I must admit that it surprised me too that we arrived from one deficit in surplus three years in a row, and why? Well, because of one saving and one attitude that can't be spent more than it's earned, that it can't be paid for consumption any more than it's earned and that the budget has to be so balanced that we have investments in capital investments, public investments, part of it in consumption, but in certain proportions. That's exactly what we did. I have to say that one budget in 2019, where we'll see the final bill already, I'm sure, in July of next year. In 2020, a relaxed budget, on good grounds, was made up of conservative methods, in other words clearly precise where and what revenue, what expenditure and one balanced budget are, is a stable budget. Since I was talking about the budget when we adopted it, I'm just going to say this, I have no fear that we're going to get into some difficult situation for the simple reason that we've introduced the proportions of rules and methodologies that are respected. If you respect these rules, then it is clear to you that you cannot get into a difficult situation and that you will clearly have for wages, you have for pensions, you have for capital investments, you have for other public investments, which is obvious. Capital projects are being completed, the best results of the economy, and I've said that before, they're being seen in the transfers of PIOs. In 2014, we allocated out of the 272 billion pension budget, in 2018 172 billion, so less than 100 billion dinars. What does that mean? This means that we have bigger employment, greater economic activity, that we have better salaries, that means that Serbia is standing on healthy economic feet, which means we can move on. There's something else I have to point out. In the previous period, in 2002 to 2008, capital investment funds were allocated, but they were not spent. Why? Because we didn't have programs and because we didn't know how to run capital investments. It was a big loan back then. We take 800m euros for Serbia's railways, so it hasn't been withdrawn. There were some other loans that weren't withdrawn. To make it even bigger, for those loans you're not pulling, you're giving extra interest, extra foam. Why? We were in debt, and we didn't know how to use it. Just in the situation where we are now, we have surpluses, somewhere in October of the month we discussed the fact that we have invested the surplus in public infrastructure, that is, in particular, in the Moravia Corridor, we have given some of the funds and we will give to disbursement of the economy, but we do not forget, and there is what the Social Democratic Party always emphasises, that Serbian citizens must feel better in economic development and on the basis of their salaries and on the basis of their pensions. That's where we're going to look for one measure. When we talk about where it is, I have to point out, it's about those proportions, if we're talking about wages and pensions having to go to a certain proportion, let's take the wages, then it's got to be 9.5%. If you go higher, then you come to a dangerous zone that says that at some point you will have to give more, that is, to continue in debt or to go already to give from what economic growth does not allow you. What is very important is the participation of public debt in GDP. We've been in debt, at one point we've been to 76% of GDP and close to bankruptcy, but now we have a public debt that's about 50 comas a bit of a percentage, and it's going towards a downward trend. I have to say that the legal provision of 45% of GDP is a very strict condition, perhaps for our country and too strict, which we have imposed ourselves, but personally I do not find it a problem to be in high quality debt, especially at this time when interest is low. Quality borrowing, investment in infrastructure, investment in roads, investment in water purifiers, in sewers means leaving the country in a better position, in a better situation where it is. Of course I'm looking forward to it, and I've always said that I'd be the happiest when Corridor 10 is over. Yeah, I can tell you that Corridor 10 is over. So I won't say we'll finish it, he's done. Corridor 11 from Surcin to Cack, yes, complete. It'll open tomorrow. So it is Serbia that has succeeded with its work, with its pawnage, smart and good policies to come up with a situation that has enough resources for all of these areas that I've been talking about. When we talk about final accounts, I expect it to become a rule now, that we will have the final account for 2019, following the assessment of independent institutions, the DRI, the Fiscal Council and others, in July of next year, before we have budget projections for 2021. It'll signal us what, how and where we need to fix our finances. We don't need to fool ourselves that everything's done right now. Good foundations have been laid. On these grounds, we need to upgrade a lot, edit the house we had, and make it clear what and where to go and where to spend it. There were also talks here about the funds of the reserve, etc. There's a lot to discuss. One of the things that I'm going to point out, and I'm going to do it again, is that in the profit system in Serbia, it's order, that the profit mass is down to 9.5% of GDP, yes, but I'm in favour of paying classes, because it's impossible even if some state-owned firm, it's some colleges that are currently in a favourable situation, here, for example, it's legal colleges, IT colleges that have that. They've got a lot of decent receipts. No, they don't need all the benefits in state services that are earned only in wages, they should go into investment, because that way the state goes better and further. I'm also talking about the general government's final budget accounts. We don't have them right now. We have the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia, but we have no general state. Maybe it should be one step forward. Why? In local self-government, the province, then in other situations we have a lot of money to earn and often goes beyond income. What I'm trying to say, and by doing so, I'm going to finish my exposure, the state of Serbia in this year, in previous years, after the results of the financial consolidation, manages its finances well. There can't be any surprises, there won't be any. He manages capital investments well, which is very important. See for yourself how much you've done Corridor 10. It is completed, but I expect that the experiences we have had on Corridor 10, Corridor 11 can be directed towards new corridors, the Moravia Corridor, the Kuzmin-Sremska Raca highway and other corridors and highways that we will open. Why? Our experience, effective use of these funds will mean further GDP growth. We have a lot to give in public infrastructure, then in education, in health care, in clinical centres, that these good governance of these loans and all that we have, we can do our own resources better and better. In the end, I was talking about punishments and penalties. That's what I was saying when it was about the budget. There's a lot of money going on. You know, when someone says 22 billion, it's a big asset, but we've been paying for some penals since 2005. We need to set up an administration, look at our contracts, because we've often had incomes that we've been hiding, not us, but until 2015. That's what they said, coming under the line. Why? Well, there were state-owned companies that made losses, who couldn't pay off their loans, state-owned banks that had to be recovered. Those expenses are hidden. Since 2015 they have entered the budget and exactly, clearly and transparently know what the state is doing. If we hadn't done that, if we hadn't come to this situation, we wouldn't have had a healthy economic situation, we wouldn't be in this situation where we are, and now we can say that we've built a good system, that system to fix it, to move on and to improve it to make us better. A state that has arranged finances, a state that knows what it wants to do means further progress, which is what this ruling coalition is, of course, where SNS's leading party has done to Serbian citizens. What we said, that's what we do. I stress that, as so far, the SDPS in the vote will support all these final accounts with a desire for our next final accounts to be annual and to be better and better quality than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67109	Thank you, Professor. Mijatovic. Now the word has been given by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Mr. Michaelovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67110	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the previous 17 years, i.e. for the period from 2002 to 2018. Of course, it would be much easier if we could adopt final accounts for each previous financial year, in accordance with the Budget System Law and established calendar, but by putting this on the agenda of all unaccepted accounts, a significant step towards responsible management of public finances has been taken. The practice in the previous period wasn't like that. Final accounts for the public and citizens are important in order to get in a transparent way acquainted with the way public finances are managed by the public authorities, because the consolidated final budget account also includes revenue by legally established sources, as well as expenditure sorted by users and purposes. It therefore contains all relevant and comprehensive information on the implementation of the adopted budget for a certain financial year. The final accounts show whether the budgets were well planned and whether the general government spent in accordance with the plan or much more than that, but also when it comes to costs, it is important to decide whether the costs of development or unwarranted development costs or unwarranted costs resulting from irresponsible or unprofessional public finances management. Finally, final accounts provide lessons for better future budgets. In the previous 18 years, the final accounts show trends and the consequences of some irresponsible government budget managers. Of course, it is clear that state budget revenues depend on economic flows and macroeconomic stability, on which budget sources are considered important and priority. It was a year when the budget was filled with the sale or sale of the largest Serbian companies. There have been years in which many have avoided paying taxes and excise taxes or their non-payment has been tolerated. There have been years in which budgets have been underprivileged, not those that have been able to improve Serbia's economic development. There were years where instead of encouraging agriculture as Serbia's huge development potential, we gave incentives to large privileged systems that instead of developing agriculture used for example. for importing sugar or when they sold out state silos so we didn't have anywhere to store the grain. And there were years in which we sold out the national grain reserves, and then we obtained grain from abroad at seven times higher prices. This is an irresponsible way of spending budget funds, i.e. the state's revenue, paid in the end line by all taxpayers, which is best seen after the end of the financial year. Fortunately, the responsibility for state-leading today is also different when it comes to economic growth and when it comes to state finance. Our economy has been growing in the last seven years, and we're recording growth. This can be seen from the final accounts from 2012 to 2018. If we compare the revenues of the 2002 and 2018 budgets, then we can see exactly that growth. So in 2002 we have budget revenues, they were, I apologize, 2.8 billion euros, and in 2018, about 10 billion euros. These are clear indicators of positive economic growth resulting from responsible state leadership and concerns for further development. Budget revenue growth also means the possibility of higher infrastructure investments, as well as more investment in the real sector, i.e. an economy that can only create a new value. Serbia is seeking to create a positive environment and a quality legislative framework to stimulate foreign and domestic investments. This is where trends are recorded, including some kind of record in the number of foreign direct investment. These investments contributed to a reduction in the unemployment rate now below 10%, which was over 20% over eight, nine or ten years ago. The economic growth rate in this 2019 is also 3.5%, and over 4% is estimated for next year, which is the result that places our country in the region and Europe with faster economic growth. So we can say that the slow budget from the consolidation phase is moving into the development phase. A few sessions ago, we adopted the budget here for next year, and then we heard from the finance minister that an even greater allocation for investment and capital projects was planned for next 2020, which is certainly good. Also, in this year, economic growth has achieved macroeconomic stability. They have made it possible to raise salaries in the public sector, and in the following year, to increase pensions and account according to the "Switzerland model" and this should also provide favourable social status for pensioners. We believe that further strengthening the economy, thereby increasing budget revenues in the coming period will also enable stronger social functions of the state and improving the social situation of the most vulnerable categories of the population. Here, above all, I think of children, unemployed, single parents, sick, old ones, but also the need to stop the outflow of young and professional personnel, as well as strengthen the measures of population policy. Finally, what is important to discuss the final accounts for all these years is that the DRI has been declared responsible for reviewing the spending of public revenue, in order to learn from errors and failures in public finances management and to ensure legal, responsible spending of people's money. What is most important is planning and spending must be legal and must be in the national interest and in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67111	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67112	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today's united debate on the final accounts from 2002 to 2018 was the subject of a debate on the Committee on Finance, held outside the seat in September of the month, immediately after the arrival of this material adopted by the government in the presence of the DRI and all media interested in monitoring this debate. The session was in Chačka. I must say that the representatives of the Cacca City Assembly were also present, and the mayor, who were interested, except that there were stories about the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia, was one of the topics and the final account and general how the money of the citizens of Cacca was spent. What we, as MPs on this committee, have tried to directly contact the councils of cities and municipalities, we try to present everything that is very relevant today in the state. This topic today, which is the subject of debate in parliament, I think is one of the most important topics because this assembly majority has taken on itself a great responsibility of all previous governments, all former politicians, all those officials who led this country whose work is just being looked at in these reports. What does that mean? This means that since 2002, no government has had the strength to show Serbian citizens how money was spent in times that changed the social system and the name of the state, until the moment you came into the situation that you could not pay for what was guaranteed payments in terms of pensions, salaries to civil servants, public enterprises, to squeeze forces as one responsible government and to take on all the economic reforms that had to be implemented to come today to talk about infrastructure projects, new roads, bridges, new railways, increased wages and pensions, about a new investment programme for the next four or five years, several cycles. So, first of all, we were required by the Constitution, Article 99, paragraph 11 and the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 78, paragraph 1), subtitle four, to bring these documents to parliament. From 2002 to 2018, the Constitution was amended in 2006 by Article 73(3). We were also obliged as a state to bring in these acts. Why am I saying this? Because it is very important to say that in 2003 we lived in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then we started living in certain state changes in a country called Serbia-Montenegro, and since 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has declared the Law on a new Constitution and only then live in a country called the Republic of Serbia. So, we've been through changes in the state order. There have been many changes just by changing the political decision of the functioning of the state, so it is normal for you to change your economic policy and certain incomes and expenditures. The structure itself has changed very much, but what is important to say is that there was a certain obligation, a methodology, what the balance sheets of a state should look like and what forms are to be filled out, the then finance ministries, the then government, which should have adopted it in this Assembly. Of course, that's not what happened. In 2002, the last time the final account was adopted since 2001 and what was seen then means there are reasons why they had not been adopted for the next ten years, because then it was seen that the simple forms that were being filled were not contained in their composition in the most important part - the property of the state. That card, so-called. Table five, it didn't even exist in the report. You've had an entirely unreal economic situation when you're looking at incomes and expenditures and you don't have any listed assets. What happened from 2002 to 2007? Why do we say - 2007? Because until then, there was not a single institution that could control any of these reports. So, there was no DRI that could have entered, simply, in detail, those numbers. From 2002 to 2007 we had incomplete reports on the implementation of the budget. So, we didn't have any listed assets, we didn't have any planned funds defined, we just had data that related to incomes and expenditures. Even that realization that should have been precisely defined as a percentage of each item did not exist. So, let's say, in 2006, incomes that were defined to 56 billion dinars, there was a certain difference with 2007, especially when it comes to realisation. In fact, the DRI simply did not give, it abstained from opinion, because it believes that the data the state had had until 2007 were completely inadequate. That's why, when you look at all those revenues that were then in 2002 at 2.84 billion euros, so I'm talking in euros, they were showing up as 98.78% in realisation. And was that realisation really like that? When you look at, let's say, an analysis of the parliamentary budget office that purely analytically carried out the list of all donations, then you can see that the stock situation in 2002 was 33,634%, which shows that the privatisation funds were essentially placed at the stock market. By the way, you don't have any listed assets. It is then the state's attempt to reduce the obligation of credit to the London, the Paris Club, to simply reduce certain interest rates and create a condition for new borrowings, which will, of course, appear in later reports. When it comes to income and current balances, mistakes occur not less than 300 billion dinars, they are shown much more, we come to the conclusion that at that time there was no financial management and internal control, which, of course, only since 2015 insists that, you will remember, we have talked a lot about it in Parliament since 2012, we have not known how many employees in the state administration, nor in local self-government, nor how many payments are, or how many credit lines, or how many loans and guarantees public enterprises, let alone states. Why? Because on this non-listed asset are the irresponsible authorities on which the relics are now telling us about the right economic policy, both Đilas and Jeremic and Obradovic, taking loans and borrowings. And they weren't going anywhere when you look at Serbia's budget. That's why she's talking about how in 2012, it came to be a public debt of 15 billion, and now, all of a sudden, as we're in charge, I don't know, another 10 billion up there isn't standing, because those who ran the country until 2012 didn't show something like this. That's why the IMF actually drove away in 2012, because they didn't want an international institution that asked them, as well as those of us who took responsibility, to see, as they say, what's underneath the line, what's above the line. Please, gentlemen, write down all the debts that exist, so that we know what the initial situation is when it comes to Serbia's economy. In 2012, the state still had no overall consolidation, so the main money flows. The state didn't have a united picture of what was really done, what was that realization? So, from 2012, all governments until 2014, when Mr. Vukic became prime minister, she struggled to unite all the duties of the Serbian state. So, if you remember, Mr. Djordjevic, you had certainly a great debt, over 22 billion dinars, according to military pensioners, because of the very bad decisions that existed from the former military ministers, to separate military pensions from civilian pensions, to make some differences in increases, which made the conditions for certain military pensioners to sue the state and make a debt of 22 billion dinars. On the other hand, you had certain loans taken from the Development Fund. So in 2012 and 2013, we realized that the Development Fund had unregistered 80 billion dinars of debt loans given by a company like what Miskovic used and that simply not so much money was run anywhere. What do I want to say? I want to say that this responsible government, and ultimately the only responsible politician who faced all the problems that we had inherited in 2014, Mr. Vukic, really accepted everything he said should be above the line, concluded a contract with the IMF on behalf of the Government of Serbia and set out in economic reform, into this fiscal consolidation, with the truth of how much the duties of the Republic of Serbia have been. In this consolidation, many things had to be done, not only to pass laws, but in collaboration with the DRI each year to implement international standards that mean a lot to do, financial management and control, introducing internal audits, watching public procurement, to implement them according to the laws that we have adopted here in the Assembly. Because of this, one of the first laws was very important, what Mr. Veroljub Arsic always insists, that the first law we passed after the change of power here is the Law on Public Procurement. Today we change it because practice has shown a lot to change in order to make it more efficient and efficient. And that's the last state of public debt to be followed as it was real. On the basis of many government borrowings on different loans, by paying interest of 1.5 billion euros annually, we came to the conclusion that in 2015 the public debt reached 77.3% of GDP. In order to reduce that, it was necessary to implement really strong economic austerity measures. And we did it with the help of the citizens of Serbia, but we were extremely honest and correct about how we should do it and what we asked for citizens' support, we did it. Today, we all realize that only by opening new jobs, by bringing foreign direct investment, by equating status and foreign and domestic investors and by supporting the state in that part, we have the opportunity to create a new value and to enable our young people to stay here in Serbia and, ultimately, to invest in infrastructure, which is why we will increase trade traffic, increase exports and work on having better and better results and real growth of 4%, which enables Serbia's citizens today, which is why we have such a good economic situation, which is assessed by all international institutions. We do not say that, and these are not only the results of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but are simply the results of which everyone in the EU countries has developed, in the end, and much more developed, have high growth rates. Today, they simply side by side talk to us about how the standard of Serbian citizens should be increased. What is important for the final accounts, it should be said that the state managed to make all these reports, the balance sheets that we have in 2018, may be under the glass and criticism of many economic analysts who tell us how money should be spent, showed their knowledge just when they helped those who were extremely irresponsible in public finances by 2012. This is reflected on the basis of these reports and on the basis of the auditor’s own assessment. The auditor as a state institution does not have the right to give his opinion whether someone was responsible or irresponsible in spending money, but must give an analytical assessment, the measures to be implemented in order to comply with international standards, and that list of measures by 2012 was more than 220 recommendations that had to be made. Today, this number of recommendations is much smaller and is in line with international standards and is measured simply by developed countries where we are not members today, when we talk about EU members, but where we always compare. When you look at the picture before 2012 and now, you realize that very much has been done on each plan, but that the results of the balance sheet and success are simply a reflection of how far we really have gone to solve everything that has been an ugly past with which we have fallen to correct many things, although this is an indication of how responsible a political nomenclature is to our citizens. I think next year it will have the opportunity for Serbian citizens to assess this very degree of responsibility, whether we have truly met all the standards that citizens require of us or not, but those who do not want to discuss arguments in this way, in general, about the results of an economic policy did not deserve any support from citizens. I am convinced that this will really show up next year in these elections, especially when it comes to SNS and President Vukic, because it is not enough just to promise towers and cities, when it comes to election promises, but to something concrete, and we have something to show behind us what we have done, so we are not afraid at all that citizens will vote in the next election. In the day to vote, we will accept the final accounts as representatives of the strongest party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-17-0.u67113	Thank you, colleague Tomic. We'll take a break. We're done working for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you all and thank you Minister for your cooperation.
