ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54500	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament - no one has fulfilled their parliamentary duty. We continue the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Corruption. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic and her associates are with us at the ministry. The 20th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54501	Thank you, President. I'll use the MP's time. First of all, I agree with the Government's view that the amendment should be rejected, for reasons of incompetence and because the adoption of such a proposal would prejudice the effectiveness of the Agency's council as a second-degree body in this particular case. We've already talked a lot about the actions of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We can see that the norms found in this chapter of the bill actually extend the competences of the Agency and are more detailed on issues that were unclear in the application of the applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act. It is precisely the extension of the Agency's competence that will lead to an analysis of concrete cases, and in this respect it will be a good exchange of information with the Ministry. Speaking of how important practical examples are, we can always remember a number of examples of the party to which the amendment promoter belongs, which did not happen in such a long time ago. There are so many examples that we could hardly find one prominent official of the Democratic Party who was not involved in a corruption affair, from Gilas, who was mayor of Belgrade when an affair was being held, and the epilogue was a debt left to the capital of over a billion euros. We're having an affair "Bus Plus", an affair about the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, an affair about the purchase and installation of underground containers, an affair called "Pazl City", an affair about the acquisition of Spanish trams, an affair around Mosto on Ada, etc. These are all the assets of the Democratic Party. All we can think of is Ken's affairs in Smederjevska Palanca, when the result of his government was a devastation city, a robbed budget, a million debts, losses and minuses left behind. Let's remember Sapic's affairs, Jeremy's affairs. Speaking of Vuk Jeremic, he still hasn't given an explanation for what purpose he's won millions of dollars from Patrick Hoe who's recently been convicted in America. Pajtic's and Sutanov's affairs are likely to be written by a book. Serbian citizens have not even forgotten Zivkovic's affairs, which is what counterpart Risticevic was talking about enough. Let us remember Dulic, who is also convicted of abuse of office. Only the Clean Serbia action has cleared the Republic of Serbia's budget for more than 25m euros. We have examples and current owners from the Democratic Party - Paunovic in Paracin and Zelenovic in Sapac, who are daily in public because of numerous affairs in the two cities. So, if we sum up, we will come to the conclusion that almost anyone who has committed or now makes the Democratic Party's leadership a direct participant in the affairs that were aimed at personal wealth, while Serbian citizens have at the same time povertyed. In any case, the Anti-Corruption Agency will also have to deal with such issues in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54502	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54503	By amendment. I think that this amendment should be rejected, because the law that we are now passing is a law that we want to give more emphasis to combat corruption, to suppress corruption in the root. I'm talking about agriculture corruption. We're witnessing that in a period of seven, eight, nine years, certain laws and sublaws have been passed in order to make someone rich and do something. We are now creating a great opportunity to protect ourselves from corruption, and the Serbian state, headed by our Serbian president, is working on the fact that no one is protected by the membership card of a party. For this reason, I will uphold these laws and request this amendment to be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54504	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54505	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also welcome these pigeons in the park outside the presidency, who are not with us today. A lot of things are problematic when it comes to this amendment. Among other things, the very name of the parliamentary group which is the applicant of this amendment. Namely, it says here - the Social Democratic Party. I guess this is Tadic's party, and we had a chance to hear yesterday in the news a tragic situation, which is that there was some kind of unification or unification of the Democratic Party. If it is to trust the media, these MPs who have submitted this amendment, or most of them, is in it since yesterday, I would say, in advance of the failed project, again in the Democratic Party. Now I'm asking -- how am I supposed to vote for their amendment, when it's wrongly signed? So here we have a classic example of false representation, and we need to clarify that, because we can get into a situation where we have wrongly signed MPs when we discuss and about the next amendments. The matter would now be somewhat tempered if the representatives, or the amendment's proposings, showed up at this session, but they have better things to do, to feed those pigeons in the park in front of the presidency, or are now dealing with this unification of this pre-disclosed project of restoration of the Democratic Party. Why do I say ahead of schedule a failed project? If they could have worked together, they wouldn't have left their democratic party at the time. Let's just remember what they said about each other in time. Remember what Boris Tadic said about the Democratic Party when he left. Boris Tadic says - I made a decision precisely because the Democratic Party's political bloc is being returned to the people who have brought the epithet of the affair's corruption party. And now Boris Tadic is returning to that affair and corruption party. By the way, when he said something like that, Sutanovac commented on it - Travel, Iguman. Tadic, explaining the decision to leave the Democratic Party, stated that the party has been facing for years a syntagm on yellow thieves, who exist in public, and that such a burden is due to affairs and wrong privatisation. This is what Tadic is saying about the Democratic Party in its own time. The president of the Democratic Party says -- we'd make a party of action society. I knew exactly who would go after me. My team is a surprise, there's no room for the old. Apparently, there's room for the old ones. Here, Tadic is talking about tycoons - before me they funded the Democratic Party, and that is clear, I tell you, and it was also clear to some of my predecessors, and their co-operation with one of the tycoons. Tadic says "Dragan Djilas, former DS president, along with tycoon Miroslav Miskovic, was co-owner of the "Pres", admits leader Boris Tadic. Then, Tadic says - Miskovic would via the Democratic Party to enter politics, etc., etc. Why am I bringing all this up? For years, all the worst people have talked about each other, and today they're playing some kind of unification, although there's never been any fundamental difference between them. So there was never a difference between the Democratic Party, either those of Zelenovic or Petrovic's party or Tadic's party. But those who were able to make all the dirty laundry, which, by the way, be told the complete truth, bring out the public, that all the worst talk about each other, today they act like some kind of unification and act like an alternative to the government. I think it's a very hypocritical move, an extremely immoral move, and when it comes to the amendment itself, I would like to say that I fully agree with all the reasons that the Serbian Government has delivered in its opinion when it comes to not accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54506	The word is Miljan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54507	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected MPs, we had the opportunity to listen to what the agencies were doing in the fight against corruption founded at the time of the DS government. We also saw how interested they were in fighting corruption in society. Just to remind you, it was the time of the greatest affairs and malfeasance. The question arises, "What were the agencies for?" "What was the purpose of their existence?" And we know how elected and appointed members of the Committee and the Director of the Agency were, by choosing the members, and the Committee proposed the Director, so it says how they did. As citizens reported all their assets and incomes, the Agency served to suck up our money. The question arises why was the Anti-Corruption Agency blind and deaf to all the criminal acts and robberies that took place during that period, who was discovered and prosecuted and protected by many? So there were double standards, so the people and the state became increasingly poor while individuals enormously increased their assets. What about the damaged budget that they left for the citizens of Serbia or empty city registers? The cases of robbery were great, and nothing was done, it was not responding to all these corrupt acts. Now, from this point of view, it looks like those agencies weren't supposed to exist. Corruption was in all segments of society during the previous government. They were so successful in the machinations and insecure of money that, apart from the people and their yellow party, they led to bankruptcy. They were so devious and boastful that they had eaten their own members, even from their budgets for pregnant women and foster mothers. It was the time of their authority. The same ones who made extra profits on other people's torment, building on their empires. All of this has led to the need for things to change in the Agency's work and the need to bring changes to the Anti-Corruption Act. The new bill solves the problems of practice, and the proposed solutions are better. The relevant paper is also an extension of the Agency's competence to carry out a risk analysis of corruption in the work of public authorities. Then, the paper is making reports with recommendations to eliminate these risks. The paper in the draft law is that the second-degree body, the major agencies, will decide to appeal the decisions of the directors to which the measures are made, except for the decisions of the employees of the Agency, as well as by extending its competence to take the principle positions for the application of these laws. The work of the Anti-Corruption Agency has not been sufficiently controlled and controlled. So far, the Agency's Board of Directors has chosen so that there have been many biases in the decision-making process and in general on their work. Especially when the Committee was to decide on the decisions made by the Director, which was elected by the Committee itself, which all points to an unobstructed approach, non-critical, affectionate and cheerleading work. That's why we have an amendment to the law. The paper is changing the way the directors and council members are elected, which will now be elected by the National Assembly by the majority of votes. The National Assembly will also resolve directors and members of the agency's council. This will make different decisions, increase responsibilities, justice and awareness of duty and a different way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54508	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about a person in the state's bodies. Is the court a state authority? Yes, it is. Last night, many of you watched the show, who had nerves, Olje Beckovic. It was attended by Judge Majic, Madam Minister. It is a judge who, along with Hadziomerovic, freed another judge, probably for money, the Gjilan group. (Marco Atlagic: That's right. ) So a group of KLA criminals from Gjilan, who had the tactics of killing the non-Albanian population by system, take their souls slowly. So, not that they killed people, but they killed them by breaking their skulls, tearing apart pieces of meat, cutting off their breasts and burning their women. So it was the tactics of Albanian terrorists, taking souls lightly. So, this judge, I don't know if he had permission, and I think he needed the President of the Court of Appeal to perform last night, but I'm asking you, since the judiciary is independent, is it divinely independent? Is independent of the law, given that he appeared in court and a witness associate who pointedly testified what they were doing with Serbian victims, how much they were swimming in the blood, how they were roasted, how they were cut down in the form of a cross, etc. A very impressive witness testified. However, Judge Majic dared to free himself like his DOS mentors, who freed 2,108 terrorists, including Flyor Brovina, Kurtija, the Mazrek brothers, and to remind you that Brovina recently presented a false document wishing to accuse Serbs of genocide. So, I claim that this is a corrupt thing and that the Albanians bought that verdict and it is a real shame that Judge Majic is still the judge of the Court of Appeal, let alone to appear in public after such a shameful verdict that he brought to the detriment of the Serbs, the Serb population and mankind in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54510	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54511	Dear President, here's when counterpart Risticevic mentions corruption in state authorities, to join in. I will give an example, which is the case of Marko Bastic, president of the Old Town municipality in Belgrade. He believed it or not, I'm talking now about political corruption, on the DS list in the Old Town municipality, put on a list and chose his wife's sister, his wife's wife, his cousin, his mother's godfather. When they asked him why he was doing it, he said, quote -- I see nothing controversial about what they're doing with me, I put them in order not to run away in trade terms, finished quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a man who prohibits working in the Republic Square these days. I must stress that he has just established a new practice on the Serbian political scene and a new element of political culture, depicted in the open positioning of sisters, godfathers, wives, cousins, swastikas under parol on the list of suppressing political trade by the mandates of the councilors etc. As long as we're here, there's nothing better than Bojan Pajtic, who did the same thing in Vojvodina. So, he was accused by his party colleague from DS Goran Jesic and said, quote – Pajtic employed in the Executive Council of Vojvodina's aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws, scurvy and godmothers, from 670 employees in the Vojvodina Executive Council, as he inherited, Pajtic increased the belief or not to 2700, finished the quote. The statement dated 17.9.2014. Otherwise, Bojan Pajtic lied that the SNS had stolen the election in KIM, so he claimed, quote – that a phantom voter was born 144 years ago and that he voted most normally in the elections on 24 April 2016 and that the government in Vitina in KIM stole the elections by voting the deceased in 1872, finished the quote. Dear citizens, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was about Sreten Brankovic. To disprove this disgusting lie, Brankovic burned, believe it or not, at Easter, Belgrade, after more than 30 years, to prove to the cameras and journalists that he was no deceased. I quote his words: "You lied for 100 years, I was born on August 1, 1972, I voted normally and signed the list. In the home number instead of nine, it was put in the wrong eight, so it turns out I'm 100 years older. “, ” finished the quote. What corruption was during the DS is also saying that Oliver Dulic, at the Environmental Protection Fund, unintendedly used funds for the DS pre-election campaign and for subsidising companies that imported batteries and waste tires to recycle them. Even Mr Dinkic said that on September 21st and 22nd 2014 in this high house. In addition, Dulic paid posters and billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia", which cost more than half a million euros and paid another 500,000 euros for advertising in one daily list, according to the state auditor in 2011. Making the site "Let's Clean Serbia" paid 25,000 euros. He even paid for the lion's maintenance on Palic. Another piece of information to mention, which is the president of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, and today the MP of the DS, Radoslav Milojic Kena, who is known in the people under the name of beer, which is not presently in this high house, has spent on beer 457,710,00 dinars for 2016. In the “Atrium” cafe, he spent an evening of 110,800,00 dinars on coffee and beer, and on May 13, 2016, he spent an additional 139,850,00 dinars on beer. Dear citizens of Serbia, there was one poster, a graphite, in Smederjevska Palanca and has not yet been erased, which was dedicated to the corruption that Mr. Kena had done, he said: "The truth is that there is no beer in Palanco, all that remains is foam, the yellow Kena drank it, and the beer was expensive, I drank it, it's expensive, the coffee shop budget pays everything, I'm yellow Ken from Glibovac, br," finished the quote. So, to see gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, what corruption did during the party of the former regime. The Serbian Progressive Party is fighting corruption, regardless of the party's colour, is the best proof of the arrest of the Požega municipality's top leadership, and the municipality of Grocko and the municipality of Bruce. That is why the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is right, when he said, to quote: "The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow it to become a party of criminals and people's money kidnappers, such as the DS. “, finished quote, or as SNS Vice-President Nebojsa Stefanovic said, I quote: “No one will be protected by party membership, no booklets, no material status, no position in society,” finished on 12 May 2009. Finally, respected Serbian citizens, I will not speak individually of the leaders who lead this alliance for the second robbery of Serbia. About Dragan Djilas, known for his name in the people of Điki Mafia, about Vuk Jeremic, in the folk-known Wolf descendant, about Janko Veseinović, in the people of the famous Janko Stanocrats, because he stole Milic's apartment in Obrovec, on the street of Brace Kurjakovica No. 9, about Bosko Obradovic, called a national bully, because he has failed a dozen state institutions, about Dusan Petrovic, called Doula Kravoci, who, during his time as Minister of Agriculture, allowed 250,000 cows to be slaughtered from a total fund of 500 thousand, about Marinika Tepic, a dove of flyers. She lays in one party at night, and wakes up in the morning in the other party. She's changed six political parties over the last three years. About the Milky Way of Pantic, in a people called the Mad Man. That moral gramada, a dead drunk driving a car, caused an accident on Brank's bridge and drove in the opposite direction. Dear citizens, he was arrested and taken to the police station for rinsation. That's what he accused him of. Guess who, Alexander Vukic, accused him of it. I was right when I said in this high house that he, Milojko Pantić, is called a lunatic, and a drink. If he had been drinking, he'd have proved it by driving. About Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pishoi, who said without shame and shame that he would piss on Alexander Vukic's grave. About him is best said by his colleague Biljana Srbljanovic, quotes: "The unwashed, lying Sergei is your leader and party and protest. Always a sneaky liar, always licking on me, was a gold medal in getting in my ass. He always lied, always smelled, always grabbed for money, a meal, a drink, never washed, always cheated on his colleagues. “, finished the quote, Mr. 2019, on the day of 20, the month of the first. An actor who best said about them, I will end up with his quote for those who lead the protests, quote: "People slowly realize that the protest from the beginning, from the end, was led by censors with the help of various half-worlds, semi-innovators and works of students who trusted them," finished a quote on May 10, 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54512	The 21st Amendment was submitted by Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54513	Just before coming to power in 2012, the SNS announced a final fight with crime and corruption, and a task force was formed in the Ministry of Interior to deal with the issue. Unfortunately, not enough has been done in this field, 24 privatisations have not been examined, which have been marked controversial, and we all here know that there have been much more than 24 controversial privatisations. In the case of 24 privatisations mentioned, only 11 criminal proceedings for abuse of official office were initiated, and only businessman Dragan Djuric was sentenced to a year in prison. The impression is that the fight against corruption in Serbia is unfortunately selective today, and that only those who have lost touch with the ruling regime are eligible, and that all those politicians who were in power at the time of the robbery privatisation and who today enjoy the wealth they have won at the beginning are spared. Criminal charges are lagging behind, trials and charges against Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, Janjusevic, Kolesar, who today enjoy an enormous wealth that can also be said for the family of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. On the one hand, the media have a rather incorrect relationship on this subject, so when they run out of material they report on MPs as corruption entities although we all know that our salaries here are limited by a fixed amount, although we all know that someone who performs only the function of a MP can in no way be corrupt. On the other hand, tycoons and criminals from the previous regime have not yet been responsible for the enormous damage they have done to Serbia, and we hope that this government will change something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54514	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54515	Right to the replica, if you agree, Madam President, since the SNS has been mentioned. One thing, it is said that something seems to be doing here selectively, or that it is not subject to the interest of the competent authorities of people who are members of the SNS or of our party close, and you are literally from Sundays to Sundays, but literally from Sundays to Sundays, you can find cases where people suspected of being wrong about the law, so let the members of the SNS be a hundred times, so let the officials respond to Serbian citizens according to those legal rules by which everyone else does. So, today in today's Serbia, it's reality and it can't be denied by anyone. See for yourself what the reports and news from Sunday to Sunday look like, and you will see that today in Serbia is absolutely nothing, but it is understood that this is how the law is protected and that there is no such thing as protection. When it is said that there have been no cases, that people who were representatives of the former regime, and are also believed to have sinned in the law were subject to the interest of the competent authorities, I remind you, here when Bosko Obradovic rises up and says – so no one has ever been prosecuted, then he must face his words that we read to him, to say that more former presidents of the municipalities of their time have experienced judicial verdicts for their vaccine. Should we remind then that more ministers, former ministers were also the subject of the authorities' interest. The fact that some people, normally very aggressive people allow themselves to be insolent, to repeat over and over again that it wasn't what it was or that today is what it isn't, should never affect us who do these things seriously, I, in that sense, experience and propose amendments, to succumb to their words, because these people simply don't know about the better. When you look at what's wrong and what's wrong and how these people behave. This morning, so while we're discussing here in this session about these things we're discussing, I'm reading comments coming from the other side of the assembly door by those who are supposed to be here. Today they seem to be one of the main topics he had to say, you might think, Janko Veselinović Can I finish my sentence? [[(President: Time. Thank you. You've reached out to the replica.]] You can, of course. ) So Janko Veselinović says and now he's trying to convince us that it's not what it is, that we didn't want to put Tijana's law on the agenda for years, years. To remind you, in 2015, our congregation majority then passed the Law on the Police, Tijana's law. Janko Vesenovic, who was an MP, voted not. Today we're discussing the Criminal Code, and those who signed the petition, do anyone see them in the O.R.? So, that hysteria and that insolence, I'll add, we don't need to succumb. If we need to find examples like this, we'll find countless of them, and, you know, we'll deal with everyone as they deserve, because the roo hypocrite deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54516	The word is Alexandra Belacic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54517	It is true that very often in the media we can read that the presidents of municipalities from the ruling parties have been arrested and processed for criminal activities. On the one hand, it's good, which is not untouchable and what you arrest and from your ranks, and on the other hand it's somewhat worrying, because you've shot these people, you've put them into functions, and if it happens so often that there are corrupt in your ranks, the question is, how do you select people? But regardless, I really believe that no president of the municipality in Serbia can be so corrupt as they are representatives of the previous regime. When I spoke about the lack of responsibility, I thought first of all about the responsibility of ministers and government representatives, above all, Zoran Djindjic, and then Vojislav Kostunica. The impression is that some of these people, close to the previous regime, are now enjoying protection. I don't know why that is. I see that you have opened your doors and received many of the apostates from the Democratic Party, some others you have not, but they live quite a peaceful life, spending millions that they have acquired at the expense of Serbian citizens, and unfortunately no one is processing them for it. The question arises as to why this is so and whether this regime will change something or whether you count these people as future finance or coalition partners, and above all I think of politicians from other parties, we had a particular case in the campaign that Vuk Jeremic financed his campaign with one-off money, and whose origin he cannot justify. Papers on all this went public, but we still haven't seen a criminal case being brought against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54518	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54519	You must have noticed then that Vuk Jeremic can't get close to the SNS, just like Dragan Gilas. So their money, in the sense that we have something of them, absolutely not interested, it's clear to everyone. Vuk Jeremic, who also had the most beautiful to talk about both the SNS and Alexander Vukic as he hoped he could get in some way politically close to us, and when he was told clearly and clearly put to the knowledge – no thanks, we have nothing with such ones, then he concluded that we are the worst in the world. I've said enough about myself the moment he represented the Republic of Serbia, beware, was paid by the citizens of this country, what, more than $8,500 a month to do a job in the United Nations, and then he used that time to make corrupt arrangements with all sorts of Lozojas, Hos and the like. So, what's he like, what he's like, and what he showed from it. The same goes for Gilas, with which, by the way, we have nothing, nor will we ever have anything, except that we make it clear that what he did to Serbia to that extent was reversed, devastated that we would have to correct it for years, but we would make it right anyway. As far as we're concerned, he's never gonna get a chance to do it again. What's the matter, and what wasn't we know very well, but we don't hesitate to remind ourselves of that. So when we say, those who accuse us today that we, you may think, are guilty of anything concerning Tijana's law, and have not come to vote for that law when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Police, these people must not look you in the eye and make an account, as they should not, as other citizens of this land. In 2015, when Tijana's law was passed, we from the parliamentary majority did not vote 11 MPs of the Democratic Party, 11 MPs at the time, neither did Janko Veseinovic, who called us this morning, was an independent MP, and those who now united with their parent organisation "yellow company DS" d.o.o., the Social Democratic Party and Together for Serbia, nor were they in the hall, four of their MPs. Zojo's Law in 2015, Democratic Party - nine MPs did not enter here, did not insert the card, was too much effort to press the key like this and vote. There weren't any of those independent MPs, but still neither SDS nor Together for Serbia, these are Tadic and Zelenovic and others who are now all in the crowd again and who will tell you that we are not going to treat children, that we are not going to protect children from bullys and maniacs and they will repeat as parrots all the worst and the darkest in our account, and when you look at what anyone has shown by their actions, for what anyone has done with his actions, they will always be the same – they are nowhere, because they don't care about anything. They're only interested in political bargaining with us if they can do anything, and they can only watch us from that little tent or on TV screens doing that job that this country needs. As far as we're concerned, this difference is so clear, it's so big that they'll never be able to master it with any nonsense, tweeted "Twitter" or waving some of their money or millions. Let them have them, those millions will come out on their noses, as far as the law is concerned. We've always shown what we're interested in and what's bothering us, the good of this country, the good of these citizens. The man is every subject to temptation, some of these temptations succumb, but the people representing the SNS, who have an obligation to take care of the credibility and the party and the leader Alexander Vukic, that kind of weakness cannot afford, that's our message to everyone and that's the difference that citizens really appreciate very well. Look at Kosovo and Metohija as early as yesterday, 95% of citizens say the difference is very well seen and highly appreciated. They said much better than anything I could add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54520	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. They're not here. Does anyone else want to talk? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone, since the promoter isn't in the O.R., want a word? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54521	Thank you, Chairman. Also from the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment says that a senior agency member is elected by the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all MPs, etc. This amendment was rejected by the Serbian government. I agree with the opinion that the amendment should be rejected because it is the minister who is proposing candidates for members of the council of the Agency, and the National Assembly is here that the Anti-Corruption Agency is reporting to her. I think it is of particular importance and a solution that strengthens the role of the Agency in the legislative process. The director and employees will be able to use the experience they have gained in the practical application of this law and thus be able to influence at least future solutions, to make these future legal solutions better. Therefore, through the submission of an initiative to amend the rules, the Agency will influence what the provisions of the law will look like. In addition, the Agency will give an opinion on draft laws from areas that are at risk of corruption. These changes are fine and it is not disputed, but I also believe that, based on the applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act, the Agency could or even had to take a closer look at the corrupt actions that were spoken of in public. For example, was there corruption when Dvori was financed from various state institutions and businesses? For years, Bosko Obradovic has been known to receive money from the "Colubara", and in the years when "Colubara" recorded terrible losses. Were there any corruptions when Davery received donations from various ministries? Were there corrupt elements in Boška Obradovic's actions when he pulled money from his own movement that was won for the 2016 campaign? The Agency is expected to verify whether such people have reported their assets or have deliberately hidden that data because their assets have increased in a problematic way. What will be the task of the Agency in the coming period is that we have fewer cases for the result, that no one can use their function or their position to abuse and increase personal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54522	Thank you. Minister Nela Kuburovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54523	I thank the esteemed president. People's MPs, here's the fifth day we've been discussing very important laws, and those who have submitted amendments, and, behold, miracles, right at the Anti-Corruption Act, are not here today. I believed that after the weekend they might change the decision, so that exactly what they have submitted in writing and in public performances and say why they are rebelling against the new Anti-Corruption Act and why they object to increasing the authority of the Agency, why they are fighting a transparent election procedure and directors and members of the council, because when you look at all their amendments, they almost propose or delete members of the proposed law or suggest returning to the old provisions. This just shows that there is no willingness for them to participate in the debate, there is no willingness to participate in topics that are of great importance to citizens, and certainly the issue of fighting corruption, is one of the issues that affects citizens the most, and whenever a survey is conducted, it is something that citizens point out as a burning problem. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia as one of its priorities in the work and put the fight against corruption, not only through the adoption of strategic documents over the past few years, but also through the realisation of these strategic documents and their implementation and effective application in practice that already gives and what good results. I'll remind you that the government at the head of Alexander Vukic has passed a Code on the Protection of Alerters, one of the corrupt mechanisms of combat. A law Serbia is praised for not only in the region, but throughout Europe, where our model is presented as a model to be seen by other countries. The law remained only a dead letter on paper, in almost four years' time, the courts were able to discuss more than 500 cases and nearly 500 cases were resolved on alert application. Another important anti-corruption law that starts to apply for only a few months, and most of all, it applies to you MPs, too, is the Law on lobbying. It is precisely a law that should show who affects us when we propose appropriate acts that should be of importance to all citizens and imposes an additional obligation on all officials, and most of all for MPs. What's important is that we weren't just dealing with prevention, we were dealing with both repression and what produced the results is certainly the Law on the jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat organised crime and corruption, which began to apply on 1 March of last year. In just a year, we have over 500 convicted persons, primarily for abuse of official office. Such results have almost not been achieved in the previous few years when you add up all the years individually you cannot find a number of 500 legally convicted persons. And not only thanks to the work of the special corruption department, where both the courts and the prosecution have shown willingness to fight corruption but also the good results of the prosecution's organised crime. I'll give you just some information for 2018 and 2019, where before the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, proceedings against the director of the Ethnographic Museum, against the judge of the General Court in Lazarevec, where the indictment was brought last year, and two years before that, we also had the prosecution against the President of the Court and several other judges and the court-lawful end of the case against the judges. Then against the Director of the Agency for Agricultural Payments, against the Director of More Business School. Is that a fight with high corruption? I'd say so. When we talk about proceedings against former ministers, against those who were in power more than seven, eight and nine years ago, it is certainly a matter for both the court and the prosecution - why do these proceedings take long? None of us would like to get into a situation where, after a decade of trial, as it happened, the procedure was suspended, because there was insufficient evidence or because the procedure was outdated, so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would again pay millions of compensation for official defences. But what's important is that the SNS is also fighting corruption, which is exactly what we're showing by non-selective approach and struggle. One such example is the procedure launched against the president of the municipality in Požega. You have the case and conduct appropriate procedural actions against the President of the Bela Palanka municipality and abuses, possible abuses that exist by members of his family. It's been happening for the past few months. What is important is that this government continues to put up a fight against corruption as one of the priority objectives and certainly everything we have done over the past few years, which is the development of an e-government that enables a transparent procedure in state bodies and that prevents any corrupt actions by employees. Such an example is the introduction of an e-shalter for immovableity where you no longer have the opportunity to be blackmailed by anyone whether you will register your property rights to immovable property or not, it must be completed within three days. This is perhaps one of the reasons why we had an insurrection in certain cadastrian institutions, because the introduction of e-shalter is such a corrupt activity disabled, and we all know that it was during the previous period, that there were also several criminal proceedings that ended with condemning judgments. If everyone within our own ministry is taking appropriate measures to avoid corrupt activity is certainly correct and I will only give you one example of the Ministry of Justice. When it comes to the funds collected from the opportunity, until just a few years ago, it was the public prosecutor who concluded the opportunity which decided where the funds would be spent. None of us, not even the citizens, knew where those funds were going. There have been abuses by the public prosecutors themselves, which has led to proceedings because they have been setting up an opportunity for their own private purposes. Today is no longer possible, all funds are paid into one account. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the Ministry of Justice held a competition at the beginning of the year that was public, transparent and distributed for humanitarian and cultural purposes. It is precisely one such procedure that over 470 million collected from opportunity funds will be allocated to different users. This year there were over a thousand 300 applications. These are just examples of what we did in the previous period, but certainly fighting corruption is something we should continue to insist on because only fighting corruption says that society has healed and that we have a stronger economy, which is certainly one of the preconditions. The results show that there is a struggle. The results show that we have a convicted person. The results show that in the last year we have achieved more than in the past few years. The results show no protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54524	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54525	Thank you very much. I have also called as President of Parliament and as People's MP to draw attention to the fact that only MPs who publicly claim to boycott the work of parliament today have submitted to this amendment's proposal. I would ask my colleague Negatno Sarovic not to interrupt someone who speaks and wait for him to say everything he had to say, and then protest or not protest in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is really important today to draw public attention to the fact that MPs, in fact, the DS, the SDS and others who have joined together again yesterday to a single Democratic Party, and have forgotten to abolish the parts of that united party and to choose finally one president so that we know the address with which we are politically discussing, that they are essentially not boycotting Parliament's work at all, that opposition MPs participate in the committee. One committee, I chair, and myself, is the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, as well as the official duty, which I have to chair by my Rules of Procedure, and it is also an honor of the Committee on the Rights of the Child and MPs of the opposition who claim that boycotts come to these sessions, participate, discuss, and something very strange is happening, asking me to resign here as chairman, and I seem to be doing a great job as president of two important committees. Also, those who submit amendments today, and do not really want to, and show in fact how important the amendments are to them and to come here, to defend these amendments and convince us that they may have a good intention to improve the provisions of the law take part in the work of all parliamentary delegations in international parliamentary organisations, where the Serbian parliament is a full member or observer. So I, too, am head of the delegation to the inter-parliamentary union and, of course, are very happy to travel with me, debate, receive tasks from me, do them in one way or another, MP Sandra Raskovic Ivić and Aleksandra Jerkov, have even accepted the post to be chairman of the committee or rapporteurs on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and members of these delegations have become thanks to the votes of the ruling majority. Otherwise, they could never be members of delegations, because for every decision you need more than 126 votes here. So it's one big political farce and we can't go through the amendments that someone who writes them to the office and then hates to come here to defend them, but in accordance with the, at all, tendency that one day we approach the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we should think about the amendments that someone submits, write them, and take up time, and space for colleagues who would commit themselves to some other affairs and real amendments, one who doesn't attend the sessions and does not defend those amendments, that we don't even consider them at all. I don't know what it means to submit an amendment, while you've been telling Serbian citizens for months that you've been boycotting the work of parliament. You don't boycott the work of parliament, you participate very actively, but here's something you don't have here at work these days. So I suggest we say no to this amendment, because we don't have a proposal here, and that would be the same as if we had a bill here, and the ministers wouldn't be coming, because there's some other work to do, so then we have to discuss with ourselves, I guess. I suggest we don't consider them. And of course, we won't vote for the fictitious amendments that have been submitted to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54526	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment that may be made by some ignorant that is not too important, but these are fundamental amendments that actually protect the entire constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you of the fact that the government system in Serbia, based on the principle, is divided into legislative, judicial and executive power. However, by building a judicial academy and giving extensive powers to the judicial academy, you are violating this balance, declaring that the judicial academy is some independent body and disrupting the possibility that these three, by the constitution of the envisaged and prescribed branches of government, influence and control each other, so that none of them take over functions that they cannot have. This is about selecting a member of a larger Anti-Corruption Agency and instead of doing so by the National Assembly, you are practically transferring that jurisdiction to the judicial academy. I know that you will say that according to the law the National Assembly does, but cannot choose the National Assembly, if the competition is previously conducted by the judicial academy, then the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary proposes candidates to the National Assembly, and then the National Assembly only has the opportunity to choose among the candidates offered to it. Then there's no freedom of choice, it's humiliating to the National Assembly, and it practically means that there are people sitting here who are underage, who are underage, who have not enough wisdom, knowledge, experience to do this job of choice, but rather someone does it for them, and then the formal National Assembly declares who the candidates will be. I end up, then it would be fairer if you had taken this whole election job out of the National Assembly, because the National Assembly can't take responsibility for what others have done, because it can't in any way affect what candidates will get here. Especially, what's important, another sentence, you say that here in the second part of the test, the professional integrity of the candidates is assessed. I'd really like to hear what the test is and what it's going to look like to evaluate the professional integrity of the candidate. The assessment itself – whether or not it has passed, and which members of the judicial academy do not give the press to pass the assessment of professional integrity, he will never be able to appear as a candidate before the MPs, who, I remind, have and bear the sovereignty that the citizens of Serbia have passed on to them, not to members of any judicial academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54528	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54529	Thank you. We have heard here that it is humiliating for the National Assembly to decide on the basis of a proposal delivered by an authorised promoter. Is it humiliating, then, that the National Assembly decides on the choice of judges, prosecutors, president of courts, deputy public prosecutors, when the proposal is delivered by VSS or DVT? I've listened to you very carefully, so please don't throw away while I speak, I hope you can respect me so much. When it comes to the election procedure and the directors of the agency and the members of the council, it should be taken into account the cocoa today appears to be the procedure. The National Assembly is absolutely excluded from the selection process of the Director, selecting members of the Council on the basis of a proposal from the Supreme Cassation Court, we absolutely do not know on the basis of which criteria and how, whether the Supreme Cassation Court should choose a judge or whether it can be any candidate. Then, Serbia's Bar Association, too, can provide you with a candidate proposal, we don't know whether it has to be a lawyer or it can be someone else's, and not to mention that Serbia's Bar Association has been failing to perform its post for years and is not delivering proposals for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's board, and it doesn't deliver members, for example for VSS, DVT. The essence of the judicial academy will not be any members of the judicial academy to test, but the Management Board will choose a commission to conduct the test. In the Management Board of the Judicial Academy, the majority are judges and prosecutors, and these are the judges and prosecutors of the highest judicial cases, i.e. the Republic authorities. I believe that they both have enough authority and credibility to determine who will be the members of the Commission who will carry out the test and where candidates' expertise will be checked, from the number of candidates who win at least 80 points, the minister of justice absolutely does not deliver a proposal, but delivers a list to the National Assembly. There could be one candidate, it could be 15, it could be 20, it could be all the candidates who applied for the competition and that they'd passed this censorship, and the National Assembly would be the one to choose the best. Why did we give up having the National Assembly Committee conduct a competition and propose candidates? Just to avoid the possibility of any conflict of interest, because then you put the committee in the position of the motion, you put the committee in the position of the Board of Appeal and the same persons who are members of the Committee on the same candidates should vote at least three times. We believe that this is how the most transparent and objective procedure is being introduced, and I am glad that, finally, the National Assembly will be the one who will have the opportunity to choose, not only the members of the council, but also the director, and that we do not have absurd situations like now, that the board members choose the director, and then should objectively and unbiasedly decide to appeal to decisions made by that same director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54530	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. Do you want right to the replica? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54531	Mrs. Kuburovic, my criticism was very well-intentioned. The fact that the current solution is not a good solution, as you say, is what we said when the law was passed and criticised it fiercely in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's no excuse for the law we're making right now, for him to be no good either. In my discussion, I came from this and reminded you that according to the Constitution, the system of government in the Republic of Serbia is based on the division of three branches of government - executive, legislative and judicial. You know very well that in the legal theory there is a principle called “checks and balances” that these three branches of government control each other, check and control each other and can influence each other, as the National Assembly should choose and resolve judges, as judges can judge MPs, or any citizen, etc., that is what the essence is. You said one more thing. You said he didn't propose a minister candidate. That is exactly what the 1st next member of the 24th says -- the justice minister proposes candidates to the National Assembly. That's the next member. Of course he proposes, and the National Assembly only chooses among these candidates. Chuck, there may be a situation where there aren't enough candidates. So what's the choice? There's no choice. Someone did the previous job, some of the total number of candidates, who apply, said what proposals could come before the National Assembly and limit the possibility of the National Assembly to choose. There's no choice if someone chose before us, well, he said, among these you can choose. And you didn't say anything about that professional integrity test. Look, these are categories that are very hard to judge. Based on what? These are things that need to be very careful. I've been talking here in principle, not here now is the question of candidates whether it's gonna be this or that, but it's going to have to be a principled system so that it works both during this and every other government. Our problem is that every government makes laws practically for its mandate, so the next one that comes criticises the previous one and makes a new law. And the congregation is constantly discussing, over and over again, about one and the same law, and by who knows how many times we edit one area. Instead of once, when we fix it and round it up, it'll be the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54532	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Members of the 24th Amendment are divided by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54533	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, respected Mrs Kuburovic, when reading the draft law on the prevention of corruption is absolutely clear intentions of the legislator, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia has the greatest control over any kind of corruption and no protections. Public officials have had to report to the Agency their assets, the property of their spouses, etc., which we did, and I don't see any problem there. Furthermore, this law will extend the competence of the Agency, strengthen its independence in the sense that the Agency will have the right to see into the bank accounts of public officials and that this does not require agreement. It's okay, but this law introduces the possibility that the Agency can also act on anonymous reports. There is a concern that there can be great abuses of this possibility and that many officials can be exposed to unnecessary pressure and chicaning, because anyone who is not likable can anonymously report that there is a corrupt action. I don't know if it was seen as a possible problem in law enforcement, but in any case, I wanted to draw attention to possible abuse and ask the Agency to act as professionally as possible in those cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54534	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54535	I would suggest we don't even talk about those amendments where the proposings aren't present. I think we've talked about that before. Let's not even open a discussion about such amendments. On the other hand, all the time, instead of the words "fight", the word "prevention" should be used, because it is the first quality to pass this law. The third thing, when the candidates are proposed, the assembly doesn't have to choose anyone, means the whole process is returned. Therefore, the congregation is not this way, by this choice brought before the final act. A new thing to prevent corruption is about laws. Laws must not be interpreted, laws must be applied. I suggested in the last discussion that the law on enforcement and security change, and that's good, you said, etc. I would point to another law. It's the Public Procurement Act. He must be more controlled, even I think he must be changed to fulfill his obligation to prevent corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54536	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which is added after Article 24, is the name above the member and member of the 24th, was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54537	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, last night's title of Judge Majic shook me a little, since he released 11 proven by an Albanian terrorist associate who committed the most savage crimes in Gjilan in the non-Serb population, so, if anything pops up, you have an understanding. Mrs. Comic is not here right now. It's a woman who advocates democracy, freedom of speech, exchange of views, but a piece. When she orders Gilas, Mrs. Comic does not, though she is allegedly not satisfied with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the procedure in the National Assembly. This is an example of corruption. I don't know what Gilas was corrupting Gordana Komic, but she's gone. As far as I know, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Comic was so happy to apply the Rules of Procedure's criminal provisions, the opposition gentlemen know very well on my right. This Mr. Martinovic also knows how happily Mrs. Komic has applied the Rules of Procedure which regulates the procedure in the National Assembly, and now by the order of Đilas, this great democratic gromada, as they are all called there in the Caves, suddenly by the order of one man, you boycott the work of the National Assembly that is taking place in your Rules of Procedure. This shows that Gordana Comic, in essence, is not a Democrats, but that it is only apparent for democracy, but if Gilas says, Gilas is more than any democracy by any exchange of views, than the freedom of speech, than the freedom of the media, Gilas is a deity for them. Therefore, I call on Gordana Komic to come and deny what I say. As far as this term is concerned, you all remember Mr. Sabic. He won, along with Sasha Jankovic 80. £1,000 from the British Embassy to draft the Alert Act, which the Government has already drawn up as a proposal and we have adopted, in this National Assembly. It was a work dealing with the fight against corruption, where alarmers are very important. So, for them to receive £80,000, and from that moment on, their fight against the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling coalition begins. The moral gromada of Šabić also today manages trust because they are the trustee and all those regulatory bodies, I will talk about REM, in fact, the second invitations, the reserve composition of DS. It's so-called. The fourth branch of the government and the mandate of Sabic, who is doing something drunk there, etc., acts as an injury, is twice extended, unfortunately for me, and that is the man who submits various reports to us until today, and you saw his moral qualification and moral value when he tried to fite an attack on himself and to portray us as violent. Now that man got £80,000 from the British Embassy who loves Serbs very much by trying to declare us genocide, and from that moment on, Mr. Sabic and Mr. Sasa Jankovic were in the service of the British embassy against their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54538	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54539	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I want to say by amendment a few sentences. We are facing a phenomenon that is unrecorded in a civilized and democratic world. One part of the Serbian judiciary is constantly criticising that MPs, especially the executive power, and especially the justice minister, are putting some kind of pressure on the judiciary, and we have proven many times that this is not true. We have repeatedly called on these judges who complain about these pressures and various NGOs to tell us who they are, who are ministers, who are politicians who pressure the judiciary to bring a certain verdict in the relevant case and who have failed to give a single name. We are now facing a completely opposite situation. Here, a judge, mentioned by Mr Risticevic, Judge Majic, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, gave himself the right to pressure on the National Assembly, on the MPs, on the minister of justice, on the government of the Republic of Serbia, because here we are tomorrow, i.e. how tomorrow, among other things, we vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which we introduce to life imprisonment for whoever rapes a child, a pregnant woman, or an powerless person. Judge Majic says – it is inhumane that the National Assembly will do. Imagine, it's inhumane? Watch out for those boldnesses. Be careful of that insolence. He says, it's inhumane that the MPs are going to introduce a life sentence for someone who rapes a three-year-old child because that bully, that maniac and that killer, he says, is taking away any hope that one day he's going to be free. I ask Judge Majic as judge, let on that scale... You know what the symbol of justice is, that Roman goddess Justicia whose eyes are tied, that she doesn't see who is who, and Judge Majic sees who is who. So let Judge Majic tie up his eyes, symbolically speaking, metaphorically and let those two tas of scales held by the Roman goddess of justice Justic put the life of a three-year-old child who was raped and put a man who did such a thing on the other hand, and let Judge Majic tell us what justice is. Is it justice to punish a man who raped a girl of three years and killed her in that, is it more important his right to hope, as he says, by trying to be poetic, to be philosophically inspired, or to prevent a life that has unfortunately been extinguished, and in our practice there have been such cases, these three-year-old girls that some punk raped and killed? Here's the question of what justice is. Plato said: it is fair to give to all that belongs to him. That's justice. Ask any Serbian citizen, ask anyone who doesn't have to be a lawyer what's fair in the situation when you prove someone raped a three-year-old kid. Of the 100 citizens of Serbia, 99 will tell you that this man should be put against the wall, not a life sentence in prison. However, we cannot impose a death sentence because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prevents us from doing so, but we can impose a life sentence for those who do so. The Republic of Serbia is neither the first nor the last country in Europe to know such a punishment. What I want to say on behalf of the parliamentary group and on my personal behalf, rather, I am speaking now on my personal behalf and therefore I have the right to be a little bit and emotional and to say something that some of my colleagues may not agree with. We are facing a flood of Pharisees, with a flood of hypocrisy, with a flood of false humanism coming from those who from day to day are campaigning against the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, against the Ministry of Justice, against MPs who belong to the Assembly majority and who are now telling us that the inhuman Tijana law was humane when Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradović, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Jerkov and everyone else were trying to abuse their father tragically deceased, better said girls Tijana Juric, Igor Juric, to abuse him for political purposes, so they wanted to collect political points for themselves when they collected signatures for petitions to pass Tijana's law and to collect 160,000 signatures. These signatures include signatures of opposition MPs, part of the opposition that are not in the hall for days. I wonder what they think of this thesis that Tijana's law is inhuman? What does Alexandra Jerkov think? What does Sanda Raskovic Ivić think? What does Gordana Comic think? Now what do all those who wanted to abuse Tijana Juric's death for day-to-day political purposes think? When they insisted that the law be passed, then everything was fine, then everything was in line with European standards and then there were no problems. Then the main problems were Alexander Vukic and the SNS and we MPs and the minister of justice why the law is not in the process. Now, when the law is not only in procedure, here, tomorrow we will vote for that law... I call upon anyone who does not vote tomorrow to impose a life sentence for a lunatic, for a rapist who, therefore, commits a rape, kills a child, a pregnant woman, or an powerless person. Let's see where these great humanists are, where these great advocates of human rights and freedom, where these great advocates of family and family value. What's family value? Let the lunatics rape our children? Is that family value? Is that European value? In America, they impose a triple life sentence in prison. In Alabama last week, knowing these great Democrats, the passed law to impose a life sentence for abortion. They don't admit or incest, they don't admit or rape. They don't admit anything. How can that be there? How democratic it is now out there. Here when we're trying to protect the children, the pregnant and the powerless faces, now there's a Majic, who's freed the squires from the gjilan group through American television N1 every day, but literally every day, salting our brains about how inhuman we are, how we're inhumans, how we're maltenes crazy people because we're going to put a life sentence for thugs, and not for any thugs. You must be a monster, not a common bully, if there is any common bully, you must be a monster and rape a child, rape a pregnant woman, rape someone who is powerless. Judge Majic would have to know that the purpose of punishment is not only special prevention, but also general prevention. By introducing a life sentence, we insist on the general prevention of this type of crime. When the first case is prosecuted, and when the first bully killer ends up in prison for life, without being able to get out, everyone else will think twice about whether or not they're going to commit that crime. That is the purpose of introducing, among other things, a life sentence in prison. It is a shame that we have a judge such as Majic, who is the judge of the Court of Appeal, who does not know that the purpose of the punishment is not only a special prevention in the sense that there is no return to the person who has already committed the crime, but the general prevention of crime, that other people do not commit crimes, especially such a disgusting crime, where cruelty should be, as one ruling of the Supreme Court says, special intensity, because you must truly be an extremely cruel man to commit one of these crimes. So, I want to tell you, Mrs Kuburovic, that tomorrow, as far as the vote is concerned, you will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group and all other parliamentary groups that make up the assembly majority. I believe someone else will vote in favour of this bill. And this is what I had to say, because I'm really creeping out and I'm terrified of this hypocrisy coming from a part of the justice that he says - you can't comment on court rulings, you can't comment on anything about the judiciary, but every day we can go from one piece of television, which is obviously in the role of the opposition in Serbia, that we are most brutally attacking and insulting MPs, ministers in the government, president of the Republic, etc. I don't know when that judge Majic's working hours are? How could he be on N1 instead of sitting in his court? That is one question for the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. What kind of freedom is that in which the European country has a judge of the Court of Appeal appear on television and criticises lawmakers who will pass the law? Is that in France, Germany, Great Britain? It's nowhere to be found. Only individuals here give themselves the right because they think they have the support of some outside this congregation, who are objectively very powerful and very strong. By passing this law, we tell them to be strong and powerful, but we are stronger. The state of Serbia is stronger than the Majic judge and those behind the Majic judge, and in particular, it will be stronger and we will in practice show that we are stronger than both the rapists and the murderers and that I hope this is what I said the other day at a press conference, I hope as a man that this is the last law that this or any other National Assembly in the Republic of Serbia brings, which is colloktically called by the name of a murdered child. I hope there won't be any more need to bring in any Tian, or Zojina, or Alexina, or any other law, and these smart-ass, like Judge Majic, will finally start doing their job. He would be better off reading the laws, following small EU legislation, which he so advocates, than criticising MPs from open opposition television and criticising the government of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mrs. Kuburovic, full support for what you're doing. We will vote with all our hearts for the most severe punishment of those who are willing to commit such disgusting crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54540	Thank you. Right on the line, Mr. Risticevic. He's mentioned in his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree in part with Mr. Martinovic, and not in a small part. So they are bound by the eyes of the goddess of justice, but that is no reason for both the ears and the eyes of Judge Majic to be bound. His eyes and ears are tied. He spoke of inhumane conduct. He learned that from his class. It is not inhumane for him to form a camp with 260 non-Albanian populations. It seems to him it's not inhumane to kill a ferocious 80 people. His eyes are tied with more tissues. With him, the goddess of justice has only one tas, that's the tas on which he lays. It is important to him that Albanians do not give change. Don't lie to us, the Albanians bought all the money from drugs, diaspora, etc. They also bought fake statehood. I say they also bought the rulings and the International Court of Justice, and it seems they have begun to buy judgments in the Republic of Serbia itself. Mr. Majic and Hadziomerovic, don't forget the other one, are living proof of that. There is a saying - whoever does not punish evil - does this new evil. When Judge Majic was not interested in frying and roasting Serbian women's breasts, no inhumanity is no longer a limit to him. He's lost credibility. There is another saying that people have the right to justice, but also that justice depends not only on the law, but also on the judge. They're not bad laws, they're bad judges and Judge Majic best confirms it. And I think Judge Majic is probably worse than anyone he's tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54542	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54543	Thank you. Although I have promised not to report to amendments proposed by lawmakers who allegedly boycott the work of our parliament, they are obviously not boycotting, and that should be heard by citizens of Serbia, including the media who keep writing that the entire opposition is boycotting. It's not boycotting the entire opposition, there's SRS MPs, there's Mr. Chevarlic. Many parliamentary groups are not there, but they are not boycotting parliament's work. Party MPs representing members of national minorities in the country are working. So, there's a big deal of 20 MPs writing amendments to the laws we're discussing right now, but they don't come here for some reason, they sit in tents in a park across the street from the Serbian Parliament. But you know what the result of that so-called. A boycott? They've had parliamentary groups fall apart, so Bosko Obradovic doesn't even want to come here, because he no longer has the time to report to this Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic also broke down his parliamentary group, so he says he would not come to talk, because Marinika Tepic kidnapped his parliamentary group. These are MPs who advocate a boycott, plus Gilas, plus Jeremic, who certainly did not participate in the elections. And let's take the mask off that farce once, so-called. The boycott of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. There's no boycott. They participate in Parliament's work, write air amendments, and today's work day has been devoted, without delay, only to phantom amendments by MPs who have not come to the session today. I also want to thank Ambassador Martinovic. Yesterday I watched every channel that the provider lets me watch, because we can't choose who your cable provider is, so what gives you to watch and that's it. I didn't know that one of the gentlemen who participated yesterday was on one of the media shows, channels, whatever it is, that he's a judge. I was convinced that the gentleman was a member of some NGO, so it's in his job description to go media to be against some law, etc. It all has its own price when you're in certain organizations. It's allowed to form a free citizen, so you talk whatever you want and you have your own attitude. I didn't know Mr. Milan Majic was, did I? (Alexander Martinkovic: Milorad Majic. Milorad Majic that he is, in fact, the judge of the Court of Appeal... (Alexander Martinkovic: Belgrade.) ) In Belgrade, thank you for distracting me. It means a lot to me as an ordinary citizen of Serbia that I know that from yesterday, judges can appear freely in our country without permission or with the permission of the President of the Court of Appeal. That's interesting too. I think by procedure there should be some kind of authority permit, or president of the court that can freely comment on the court's verdict, which is otherwise forbidden in our country, although it's not prohibited, I mean, almost nowhere. We're just looking at the O.J. Simpson case and the murder. He was released in the end, but it's one of the major cases in the United States, where media comment was freely made, pressured the judges to condemn O.J. Simpson, and everyone freely commented. But apparently what applies to other countries, to all other countries that make politics and in these areas, is not allowed for Serbia. I have a big dilemma, a big dilemma from today following the speech by Aleksandar Martinovic -- which is the role of judges in our country, then and why the judges do not stand by themselves, first, the rules that you have to have the court president's permission to perform somewhere and how can they, and ordinary citizens or here representatives of Serbian citizens, vote for us in this country, we cannot comment on the decisions of the courts, which I could prove more than once how we are criticised for it? I also want to tell Ambassador Alexander Martinovic that he is a very brave man. He performed very bravely today because he mentioned two categories or two groups of people that we must not mention without the consequences of mentioning here, because you will see what kind of link Alexander Martinovic will experience from this moment on. First you'll be one of the names of the next show you mentioned, which I'm convinced of. Secondly, he will be attacked for talking here about the conduct of a judge, who apparently has a very express political stance and because he has support, obviously, great, he can say whatever he wants without any consequences. You will see the arrows heading towards Aleksandar Martinovic, because he was talking about one of the shows he can't talk about, and even worse, he's going to go through a critical look at Judge Majkic's performance, which I've been convinced so far that he's not an active judge, nor a lawyer, but he's representing an NGO, which is popular lately, and that he's simply had his project assignment on the show yesterday and brought to the public of Serbia who was watching that show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54544	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Now I would like to give my word to Minister Nelli Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54545	Thank you. Just at a time when the Serbian parliament discusses life imprisonment, May 17th, i.e. Friday, the Supreme Court of Great Britain issued a sentence of life in prison to the British neo-Nazis, but it is very specific which is why – due to the purchase of a machete with the intention of killing a Labour Party representative and the threat of killing a police officer. So I'm asking you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, whether this can be compared to the ferocious acts of monsters who killed three-year-old girls, where rapes were inflicted on them in the form of liver splits, strangulations, so they were poisoning, sonic acid poisoning, after rape and murder of children in a dump, and then they repeated violent crimes, repeated crimes of rape, and they were almost multiple returnees of the greatest and most monstrous crimes? I would like the human rights fighters to declare this too – can the purchase of a machete be equal to the rape and murder of a minor child? I think that whoever calls for independence and independence of judges, if in 2009 he could choose whether to go to the Supreme Court in Belgrade or the Court of Appeal, when his colleagues, who were the president of the court, were mostly left without a job, were asked how independent and independent he was at that time to appreciate and speak and criticise whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia should propose such a law and whether the Assembly should adopt the same law, that it criticises that there was no public debate, and public debate, I will remind you, for the imposition of a life sentence since 2015. It's very easily verifiable data. On the website of the Justice Ministry you can also check to find a proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code of 2015 when the Working Group was attended by prominent professors of Law Faculty, there were also professors. Škulić, today Judge of the Constitutional Court, and Prof. Zoran Stojkovic, who was also a member of the Working Group, who was also a member of the Working Group who proposed amendments and additions to this Criminal Code, so I ask you, is their authority being challenged, and has there not been enough time to conduct a public debate for almost four years since the proposal was held in public debate? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54546	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54547	I thank the president of the National Assembly for mentioning me to take advantage of this time. I don't mind changing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and such initiatives have been a lot so far, but I think there really is a discussion in the context of the amendment debate that doesn't deserve to be presented on the amendments. This is one of the reasons that should be channeled as a special item of the agenda, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and let's do it. That was the kind of initiative. The assembly majority refused to explain that this Rules of Procedure had been brought in their time and that it was due them to be respected. Now, when opposition representatives, except for me and the SRS, are gone in the Assembly, suddenly this Rules of Procedure bothers you. Let us, indeed, focus only on the amendments and points of the agenda. And, finally, I would like to ask, President of the Assembly, that when voting on agenda points and amendments which are subject to discussion and adoption at least do not use bells, because there are no participants who will not be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54548	The word is Sonja Vlahovic, after the amendment. Here you go, colleague Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54549	I thank you, Chairman. I am reporting after the amendment of my colleagues from the SDS, the proposal of the Anti-Corruption Act. Reading the amendment, I thought it was some proposal that would improve this law, but it is only time to elect a new member of the Agency. The most important message is the message they sent to us yesterday that their opposition parties united yesterday in the "Combank" arena and the message they sent to the citizens and citizens of Serbia, we united today, we are present here, but we are opening the door and all those who want to fight with us for a fairer and better Serbia. In order to sit down even, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, so as not to fight to make our Serbia fairer and better, the media who brought us some information and all the public of our Serbia knows that they would lead Serbia, in 2013, the DS robbery through "Intercope", means the public can do so much to fight and prevent corruption in our country. Homenova's firm received two tenders in Kovin, investigating "Pistalska", when it was on 29 August 2012. D.S. Donor arrested as head of the customs mafia, the same research "Pistels" in 2012. Respected citizens and Serbian citizens so much for decent Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54550	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Members of the 26th Amendment were submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the peoples, MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54551	I thank the chairman. In this exhaustive debate, both in principle and in particular, we talked about the proposed solutions whose application will have multiple significance tomorrow. In the first place, of course, tightening the criminal policy by making the limits that are now in force move in both minimum and maximum terms. The accent, of course, is put on crime with an element of violence. I would once again refer to accepted proposals by the Tijana Juric Foundation, if by these questions we were unique, those who would sit here across the street, but unfortunately sit in the park under the tent, they suddenly decided not to support these proposals, precisely because of their politics and hypocrisy and led to these proposals being discussed, which is not strictly on the profession. In the same show that counterpart Martinovic was talking about, Juric himself said he had had a call from the so-called. The opposition, instead of a "one out of five million" password, pointed out "life imprisonment". So, from the very beginning, they wanted to politicize this story, so they would collect points not caring much for what is actually the goal of amending the Criminal Code. And today, on social networks, they advertise in the ugliest way precisely on these proposals of the "Tijana Juric" Foundation. Bosko Obradovic says – it is not the law. Vladimir Gajic mocks and says it is now Tijanin and Alexander's law. Of course, referring to Alexander Wolfiche. Vesna Pesic invites the MP not to vote in favour of this law, because all psychopaths are certainly around us. Nenad Konstantinovic says – we will be the worst in Europe if we adopt this law. Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Jerkov, all those who have signed are not here to discuss the law and have declared that they will not come to parliament to support such proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code. So they decided not to support this bill just because it was supported by the SNS, only because the government of the Republic of Serbia proposed it even though there must be a formal legislator. It is not right to honor the MPs of the ruling majority or the SNS behind these proposals, because we are the ones who have openly supported this law and have not changed our minds for political reasons. We're not using Tian's law to attack the opposition, we're just saying what's true. It is those who support a brief policy that abuse both human rights and this parliament. For what it's worth, I will again invite all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support this bill, and you, Mrs. Kuburovic, certainly have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54552	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54553	Thank you. Here's some for me to be modern. I've seen speakers boycotting parliament's work, necessarily holding a cell phone in front of them, reading something, not saying I'm a politician from the past, but being modern. In accordance with this law that we're discussing and with the amendments that the opposition is falsely boycotting, I don't even know what definition to put. For decades, I've been involved in politics and I've never heard of a single-part boycott, one corner of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Either you're boycotting or you're not boycotting, but I don't know that definition, I'll think of it when I start an NGO when I retire. I'm interested in a particular one, if the Minister can give us an answer to the question, since we're passing the Anti-Corruption Act here. Corruption includes society as a whole, I assume there are provisions in the law in which judges can be found. What interests me is whether an active judge can establish or be a member of an NGO he sponsors gives donations. I don't know if any domestic legal persons, or physical persons or, say, money and donations are coming from, so they don't feel affected, Great Britain, U.S.A. I always have some big countries coming to mind, but well, if donations come, say, from Japan, Moldova, I don't know where I'm from either... (Alexander Martinovic: From Hong Kong. ) From Hong Kong, thank you, buddy. Not to think that the subject is where donations come from, but whether judges are active in any court, let's say the Court of Appeals are in conflict of interest and is it part of corruption in our society, that you're a judge, you get a salary of the state, you have to judge independently, and on the other hand, in the afternoon or evening you're a well-known blogger, you're working in some NGO, you're the founder, or you just join, and you're getting donations here, who knows who, maybe from the legal entities that you need to decide something, from a physical person or a donation of foreign origin? Isn't that one of the forms of corruption, the impact on that particular judge how to make decisions, what attitudes he makes when he makes a verdict, if he's sponsored by someone who wants to judge it just like that, that his opinion on a particular bill is exactly the same. It costs money, and then you have to get my attitudes out. I think you understand me, and I think it's a deep, deep, cancer wound that we, in a way, don't mean Parliament, I mean society, we opened the door for corruption to appear that way, deep cover. Deeply hidden, under the cloak – I established a research centre for this and that in the judiciary and I'm a midday judge, I make decisions in the Court of Appeal, for example, the Court of Commerce, wherever, and at night I'm a blogger, and a little later in the night I'm a TV star, and a little later on weekends, I work in an NGO, and I get big fees for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54554	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has a minister, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54555	Thank you. A very interesting question, but unfortunately, as an individual, I cannot answer, it is also a question for the Ethics Committee, the High Council of the judiciary and the High Council of the judiciary, to determine whether it is compatible with the performance of the judicial function or not. But certainly these are all issues that Parliament should discuss soon when we have a debate on whether we should change the Constitution in the case of the position of judges, the position of public prosecutors, and I believe that MPs will also be able to make their views known. Especially given that the individuals you have mentioned are against the change of the Constitution in the way the Venice Commission has said, in the way that the government has created a working version of this text, so it is probably one of the reasons why we think the judge can only be a member of the professional association, it can be a member of the Association of Judges, that the prosecutor can be a member of the Prosecutors' Association, and the issues of other associations remain open and the team should be dealt with by the competent authorities that should protect the independence and independence of judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54556	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and of the 29th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54557	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, speaking of corruption, however I turn, wherever I look, that Dragan Gilas. So I ask what happens to corruption in REM? This is the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. It's Mr. Karadzic and the team. I ask again -- why don't I get an answer whether "N1" television registered in the Republic of Serbia, or REM, as an electronic media service provider, does it pay broadcasting fees like any other domestic media? Namely, there is a reasonable doubt for me that it is high corruption, because hundreds of millions of euros are being turned there, that it is corruption related to SBB, cable operator and 27 cross-border fake televisions, false cross-border televisions, which do not re-air the programme from abroad, but are broadcasting it from Serbia. That's how they qualified for the pirate medium. REM was supposed to turn off such channels, order the cable operator to turn off such channels. The connection between the cable operator and these called cross-border 27 channels is impenetrable. TV "N1" is the best proof of that. It's not registered in Serbia. Unlike domestic media, it does not pay broadcasting fees, broadcasts a programme from Serbia, broadcasts ads from Serbia, and thus further endangers the media in Serbia. So, can we do it now, it's like I'd start a TV on the building and collect money from advertising and say, "I'm cross-border television." A system of fake cross-border television and SBB has helped to pump money from domestic subscription and advertising, SBB, Dragan Gilas and Solak abroad. It's a 15m-euro subscription. In 12 months, it's over 150m euros. The money is being broadcast against the law through fake cross-border channels, which are not registered in Serbia, because the Law on Electronic Media prohibits this from the International Convention and the Council of Europe, it is forbidden that cross-border channels broadcast or end foreign programmes. They broadcast programmes from Serbia, don't pay compensation, but the SBB subscription by paying cross-border compensation channels, getting kicked out of the country and so tax evasion, and so the black money is thrown out of Serbia, and so Solak is rich, so Gilas is rich and so is the rich team around him. I don't think it could have gone without REM and Karadzic, and that's why I think REM needs to be completed urgently and it needs to be examined how this scenario came about, how did this scheme happen, how did these combinations happen, through which gentlemen of hundreds of millions of euros pump out of this country annually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54558	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54559	Madam Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled a proposed amendment, and on this subject, I would like to point out the following. Organized crime, along with international terrorism, is one of the greatest dangers to modern society and civilization in general. That is why fighting organised crime is one of the central issues in numerous international and domestic forums. In this respect, there is nothing disputed, which should not even be disputed in view of the facts. Given that we are one of the few countries that have formed special state bodies to combat organised crime, my questions and my apparition would concern the practical application of provisions related to the fight against organised crime. With this in mind, I ask the question, how many citizens of Serbia cost to fight organised crime, and how much material costs, how many people are involved in the fight against organised crime in total, who are all in a group of those who, according to the law, receive increased personal income twice, primarily in the MUP, in the prosecution, in the fight against organised crime, the Special Court, institutions for the maintenance of prison sentences individually to what level and why? Next my question, Madam Minister, would it be the effects of these people's work? How many cases in the last ten years have been brought to justice in the Special Court? How much after one judge, how much did the citizens of Serbia cost each law-abiding case is divided by the cost of the work of the anti-organised crime authorities? How much in the Republic of Serbia's budget has property benefited from the execution of criminal acts in organised crime? How much, given the basic condition for the existence of organised crime, is the link between criminals and people in the state structure with people in power, civil servants, convicted of organised crime? One question is, who's looking for judicial independence? Judges are independent in making legal judgments and legal decisions, and we have such an organized judiciary that they seek independence, but that they have no responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54560	Thank you. Just bring your colleague Jojic to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54561	If you'll excuse me, is there any corruption in the judiciary? Excuse me, Chairman, is there any corruption in the judiciary? Here, if you'll excuse me, I have official reports. On 8 April 2014, the main public prosecutor's office in Panchev filed charges against lawyer Predrag Basaric of Pancheva 21 criminal charges. The main public prosecutor's office in Panchev also filed a report on April 8th and found that 21 criminal charges were also filed against that lawyer, but that they were all outdated before they were filed, so that the second report would be referred to by the prosecutor on the second issue -- none of which was obsolete before it was filed. Secondly, the president of the General Court in Panchev confirms that 19 criminal charges have been filed against Predrag Basaric, a lawyer from Panchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54562	Please, just finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54563	Please, if you'll allow me, this is official data, I wouldn't want to improvise.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54564	Finish it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54565	So, Stanka Simonovic, president of the court, also writes in a report that five criminal charges have been filed, but appoints judges who led the cases. Now the question is, how is it possible that this is for Ginis, from 1945 to today, I haven't found in literature that 37 criminal proceedings have been brought against a lawyer in one court, and none has been prosecuted? Who's right about that? Where are the organs? Is there corruption in the judiciary? (President: Thank you. There's corruption and don't do it anyway. What Mr. Martinovic pointed out, bear in mind that Judge Majic cannot send political messages, and the judge is the Court of Appeal. The judge would like to be independent, to represent both "yellows" and not to list any others, but in any case not to respond unless he makes illegal judgments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54566	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several forms of corruption. We're mostly talking about the black one, when a favor is done for the money. It's that money I call a personal tax, when a public official or public official takes extra money from his area to establish another personal tax base. Just to remind you, double taxation is forbidden, no matter what kind of officials it is, even if it is Gilas. There's that white corruption, it's a favor. I ask you: Why do you think they are not present here, these unfortunates, who work mostly against their own country from which they receive wages? They may be sweeter, thicker, etc., but in essence, the National Assembly pays even some of them an apartment, such as Bosca Obradovic on Dedinj, and none of them are presently there. Is it corruption when you promise the MP that he will get a favor, that he boycotts the work of the National Assembly to put Gilas on the Union for Serbia in the future? Is it corruption when in such a way in the stock market of MPs, or do I not know what to call it, suddenly overnight buy two parliamentary groups? When Vuk Jeremic gives you money or for the promised service that MPs will be on the list again, did Vuk Jeremic buy a parliamentary group like that? It probably is. It's probably about that white corruption that's also punishable. Did Dragan Djilas, when I bought Marinika Tepic and the rest of the group's MP, also perform a misdeed, act, or call it whatever you want, white corruption? The five MPs also found Ana Stevanovic, the daughter of a clerk or should I call her an official at the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's what Sasa Radulovic did before. So, the safest thing to do is to have an official at the Anti-Corruption Agency or to prevent corruption, so do the opposite, and then you hire Anna Stevanović to be one of your party's vice presidents and put her on the electoral list in the future, so you have no problem with the Anti-Corruption Agency. So there are several types of corruption, and wherever I look, I find Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54568	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54569	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mrs. Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption, the SRS submitted an amendment to Article 34, by asking for the erasure of this member, with an explanation that there is no constitutional basis for the Agency's co-operation with international institutions and organisations. You have stated in this article that the Agency shall monitor and, if necessary, participate in the coordination of international co-operation in the prevention of corruption by state authorities and organisations, territorial autonomy bodies and local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, the Agency's work depends on the general climate in society, especially on the subject of corruption. Access to this problem is not or can be predominantly institutional, for the simple reason that corruption is a multiple-headed hydra, quickly adapts, and easily regenerates. Corruption is not only a domestic product, it has its own international forms, and especially local ones, it is nothing where it is not planted. It is important not to lose sight of that in these forms of social pathology is not enough just organisational and institutional equipment because the greater problem is still conscious, in ways of thinking, in security culture, in morality, in the need of people in power and those close to them. The private interest in public authority should be removed, as well as to prevent the accumulation of public functions that are mutually conflicted with interest. Unfortunately, in Serbia, there is this at all levels of government, from local to republican, in all state institutions. This practice must therefore be reduced to a minimum, i.e. eradicated in every sphere of society if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54570	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. On behalf of the above member and member of the 35th amendment, MP Gordana Komic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which added new members of 35a, 35b and 35v, after Article 35a, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54571	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday, I spoke of corruption in municipalities, and I highlighted the Indji municipality from 2006, 2007 until 2016 as one of the most corrupt, or where the president of the municipality was very corrupt. Some thought that I wasn't telling the truth when I was saying that as Suleiman the Great, or more successful than he was, he was flying to Vienna and in the center like the Užič Republic, his profile was the Užjek Republic on Twitter, the Užijka Republic remanded that German part by breaking into Vienna and taking a large square of 160 square meters in downtown Vienna. None of Tito's Partisan units succeeded, but Goran Jesic succeeded. So, after taking up apartments on our territory, he managed to, like, the Uži Republic, that's what his profile is called, enters Austria and takes up a large square in Vienna. Many of the unbelievers listened to this, but here is the document from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office which confirms that the process refers to the home in Vienna, that the indictment was filed to the Court of Fundamental Court in Stara Pazova, against Goran Jesic for a specified crime called not reporting property or giving false information. So, not only did he take up his apartment in Vienna, but he thought that as Sulejman the Great, when he took it out of Serbia, because he didn't think he had the right to report it to the Anti-Corruption Agency. What's the procedure going on? And the process is being conducted, behold, no one asks where the 500,000-euro apartment came from to the president of the municipality in Vienna, no one asks how it got there, but only because he didn't report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54572	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The amendment, which is added after article 38, names above members and the level of Article 38a, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54573	Thank you, Chairman. We believe that it is necessary to define a provision clearly when adopting a bill on the prevention of corruption, so on behalf of the SRS, we have submitted this amendment to Article 41. Article 41 refers to defining the concept of conflict and interest, otherwise, corruption is a disease that destroys society, and in particular in Serbia it is at a much higher level which should not be when it comes to the authority that wants to say for itself that it is responsible, it would have to pay much more attention to the real fight against corruption. We are now facing a law, whose adoption will replace the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, however, a fundamental improvement is not seen in the text of this law, and here it is most carefully devoted to the establishment of a new agency, which will be called the Corruption Prevention Agency for the time being. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is stated that the implementation of this law requires the provision of millions of dinars only to publish a public competition ad for the selection of the Authority. It is also stated that 17 new civil servants will be employed and that they will need 25.6 million dinars for their salaries in 2020, 3.1 million dinars and 240,000 more for its annual maintenance. For new jobs, 3.3 million dinars and nearly a million more are planned for training, for future lobbyists. Once again, it is said that it is necessary to allocate the means to publish a public competition ad for the selection of the Agency's authorities in 2020, but this time it is an amount of 200,000 dinars. The amounts needed in 2021 are also listed, investing money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the fight against corruption in the prevention of corruption should not be regretted if the results are. The situation we have right now is not good, so we can only state the fact that this is one in a series of agencies that are almost, so they're absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54574	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, while we are at the apartments of the unsettled officials of the former government, the yellow ticks, I am going to talk a little bit about a person named Dragan Sutanovac, whom I called Dragan "the kidnapper". It's the one whose best tailor in the world Taji from Turkey if I'm not mistaken, he sewed a special suit. So he came especially for him to take his measure. Taji took the measure of Šutanovac and the "grab" and his shio most expensive suits in the world. So we had a suit more expensive than a minister. So, in the Sutanovac place, I wouldn't do it, that's how you get cheaper than a suit. But so it wouldn't have happened if he was cheaper than the suit, he armed himself with expensive watches worth several tens of thousands of euros. It's about a man who's been paid to live up to a successful Serbian tank he's poured into American steel. So, a man who was almost a magician, an alchemist, who succeeded in Serb tanks and some other parts of the cannon and some other parts of the weapon to melt into American steel. As soon as they did, they closed the box. And let's not talk about the "Ju-Es style" affair how, how it was privatized, it started during "Sablje" and so on. So, this Dragan Sutanovac loved money very much, and he found 300,000 euros in his account. The Anti-Corruption Agency filed a report, and the court released him as a Sutanovac authorised someone else to report a pentahaus of 200, 300, 400, 500 square meters, and it seems to me that there were 500 squares on Vracar, so he did not know that he had not reported it, that he had recorded it in the cadastre, so the application did not come, so he was not guilty of what he had acquired and the way he gained it. I also ask the minister of justice, I ask all of you, I ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how did someone with a salary of 1000 euros acquire an apartment that is measured by millions of euros? As a minister, alchemist, succeeded, a famous bat who turned Serbian tanks into American steel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54576	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must again point to some kind of corruption, because corruption is a terrible thing. No, there are no states without democracy. There are still countries without democracy because they probably did not agree to democracy as an import imperial product. So there are some African countries that don't have oil, so they're not interesting, for establishing an imperial democracy, so there are countries without democracy, but there's no democracy without a state. The state is a presumption of democracy. If you don't have a state then you don't have democracy like Kurds, Tibetans and so forth, there are nations without a state but corruption is a nasty thing. Corruption eats the state, eats institutions, and was therefore a stateless state, the state's vision after the change in 2012 and 2013, because the operators of corrupt activities ate the state with their activities. So corruption is what is the worst of destroying the state and institutions and what is the worst of such a government is very dangerous, as in Montenegro, it does not allow any reform and change, because it has profited too much from corruption to allow democracy to develop. Dragan Djilas has profited most from corruption, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and they do not allow any democratic process to take place in parliament, to tell their political inexperiences what I am telling them both when they are here and when they are not there because in this conflict of opinion we come to some political truth where it is better to convince than persuasion. We define ourselves for persuasion, and they have persecuted us and that political truth is established from that conviction, and it is determined by the vote. Most people find out what political truth is, and that's the way to make a decision in democracy. Corruption suppresses democracy. Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and this boycott of Kobajagi boycott are the best evidence for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54578	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MPs Marko Đuršić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54579	We Serbian radicals look forward to finally starting to fight corruption. Of course, it's common knowledge, it's one of the greatest dangers for every society, even for our society. She can't, we're aware, she can't be completely destroyed, she can be abolished, but she can be aware of some bearable measures, and we're here, from calling out for a cry, not to say out of amending and supplementing the law, so on. "Walker Hunt". We are here dealing with the adoption of new laws in the fight against corruption, and not one, until now, a high-ranking official has been prosecuted for corruption and crime. Here's an example. We all know that those who came to the peto-octobarian revolution have made a point of corruption and crime. Here, even your names: Bozidar Djelic, Miroljub Labus, Vlahovic and in turn, Mladjan Dinkić, not to forget him, as they would say, of course, J. What's going on? It's been years. We all know that Bozidar Djelic, coming from France, slept with his aunt on the couch, and now he is a man with a personal capital of 10m euros. We are pleased that the SNS has started to clean its ranks, so it has detained or arrested the head of the Požega municipality, which has, in doubt, embezzled in height, along with its associates up to 10,000 or around 11,000 euros. What about Bozidar Djelic, who has 10m euros? What about Miroljub Labus who robbed everything the train can pull? What the people would say is it's not the moon they steal, because the moon can't bond to pull the train back. And what's going on? We're literally going round and round. We talk, we promise, we fight corruption, we prevent crime, and those who are corrupt, those who have grown in crime, they are at large. They're still taking the right to teach us a lesson. At Kopalnik, believe it or not, the lecture from the economy is being organised by Vlahovic, who shoulder to shoulder with Bozidar Djelic, can be treated as one of the biggest criminals in Serbia's history. And what's that for? How long are we going to do that? We're going to catch, which is in any case desirable for those who took over illegally, against the law, 10, 15,000 euros, and we're going to let these millionaires walk freely. It's out of your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54580	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54581	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Mircic says no one's been processed. I'm surprised, Mr. Mircic, that you don't know that Borislav Novakovic has been processed, due to malversions with city building land and real estate in Novi Sad. So, there's been a judicial verdict. As for Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic and all the others you listed, who ruined Serbia's country from 2000 to 2012, Alexander Vukic beat them in the elections, he destroyed the regime, not you. So Aleksandar Vukic prevented Serbia from still being managed by people like Bozidar Djelic, all those others who came to power on October 5, 2000. It's his success. Aleksandar Vukic pushed Mladjan Dinkic out of the government of the Republic of Serbia, not anyone else, and the SNS is proud of it. I agree with what you and your colleagues, after all, and we SNS deputies very often point out, the police do their part of the job, the prosecution does their part of the job, but gets stuck in court. That's the problem. That's the problem, because there are judges like Judge Majic who openly obstructs the state of Serbia, thinking they have powerful sponsors and protectors, who allow them to do whatever they want. It's a day for a reason. The second reason for me is that the independence of the courts is misread and misunderstood. The judge is independent only when it comes to dealing with a specific case, in the sense that no one can pressure him, to pass such a verdict or such a verdict, but the judge cannot be independent of the Constitution, the law. The judge cannot be independent, at the end of the day, formally legally he can, but in essence he shouldn't, from the case law that exists in the Republic of Serbia, because these different actions in essential, identical cases are very much preventing us from reaching the desired level of justice in our society, so there are a lot of problems, as far as the judiciary is concerned. The Minister of Justice is aware of it, and we're as aware of it as you are. As far as the political part of your exposure is concerned, it is the SNS that prevented those who robbed the state of Serbia until 2012, which is what they continue to do and that is the historic success of SNS and Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54582	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word is Milorad Mircic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54583	I would not want this to turn into a bid and who is a representative of the greater thief, whether it is Bozidar Djelic or the mention of Borislav Novakovic. The bottom line is the next one. You are losing sight of Mr. Martinovic one very important fact. The regime was replaced by Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic, elected president and the wave of that victory, the SNS came to power, and he won by saying that all of these that you and I have listed will be processed and that they belong in prison, and Djelic, and Vlahovic, and Dinkic and all in turn. It wasn't so long ago that we would have had so much forgetfulness. Of course, you have every right to point out the current president of your party, which is not disputed that he has a certain role to play. But you set the right example, so he started with his triumph, Aleksandar Vucic, saying that as soon as he came to prison, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic, Vlahovic and everyone else would go. They're walking freely. Mladjan Dinkic's removal from the government, he heads the Co-ordination Committee with the Arab Emirates. What kind of punishment is that? Where's the responsibility? Where's Bozidar Djelic? You know, we're talking about fighting corruption and crime. It's like that statistical report to the MUP, so it says in that and that percent, we've prevented crime, and that's where those little pickpockets and those hungry for stealing a kilo of bread and those who've committed little crimes come in. When a man looks at it, he's fascinated. There are big beasts here. As long as it doesn't, we can only tell stories, bid on which one's a bigger criminal. According to us, each Serbian radical is a criminal who is in corruption, who is corrupt, bribed, who is in crime, everyone should answer before the court, so it was just his party in power or opposition, or he is no longer involved in politics. It's state money, it's social property. They are the people who are sick and we are now pretending that nothing has happened, and now we are going to pass the law, and one of the hotspots of corruption is the parliament as well. Why? Because the status issue of MPs has not been regulated, and before the end of each term, there is a run, a flight from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group, and in this way all what is called law-making and all that is legislative power is forged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54584	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica also has Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54585	Mr. Mircic was a little anachron for a part in his discussion because he mentioned social property. Social property as legal and as an economic category has not existed for many years, but it is not so important. What is important for Mr. Mircic to point out, Alexander Vukic is not the one who imposes strong judgments. You have witnessed as well as witnesses to all Serbian citizens as many people suspected of committing various crimes in the field of organised crime, arrested, police provided evidence to the prosecution, the prosecution launched an investigation, and eventually the court of those people, in a good number of cases, cleared them. But so now I don't get involved in the work of the courts and put pressure on the judges. Serbian citizens must understand that it is the police's task to obtain evidence, and in court it is to appreciate these evidence, to take them into account or to take a second view and to say they are not relevant. But Alexander Vukic can't be guilty because you think he's the one or that criminal on the loose. It just can't. Alexander Vukic is not a judge, as neither you nor I are judges. The executive authority doesn't judge. The executive authority, or part of the executive government, which is the police, primarily provides evidence. The prosecution prosecutes perpetrators, and it is the court that ultimately gives its final word and makes a strong verdict. I think, since you mentioned Tomislav Nikolic, Mr Mircic, that you were essentially in pain with one other thing, which Tomislav Nikolic and not you fulfilled the vow of Vojislav Seselj when he went to The Hague in 2003, when he said – I am going there to defeat The Hague tribunal, and I am leaving you with the task of destroying the regime. And there's a game of historical opportunities that you can't see through your eyes fulfilled the vow of your party's president, as you said yourself, so he knocked down that hateful record regime, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54586	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the replica Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54587	Good of you to remind me, Mr. Martinovic. When it happened, we were in the same party, it was President Vojislav Seselj. But that's irrelevant. Tomislav Nikolic is in some way a phenomenon when it comes to the collapse of the previous regime. The election and vote lasted until 20.00 hours, and he won at 1700 hours. This has not been recorded so far in recent history, the history of the election that the EU congratulated Tomislav Nikolic at 1700 hours for his victory. You yourself, like me, were expressing doubts about it. Did he get rid of that dossing regime, so here's the day you have leftovers from that dossing regime, which are your coalition partners. So you're wrong. We'd like it to be. That they were released, that they were all prosecuted, not all literally, but those who were involved in criminal activities, but either you don't have the courage, or how you want to point out here that the judiciary is incompetent, just don't lose sight and that evidence that comes from the MUP isn't fully valid. I'm not saying they're not all, but a lot of people are with a lot of things that are missing. Because only the M.O.P. has the remains of that so-called. DOS. That's what they're doing on purpose. Look at the situations you'll be making sure of. What I want to point out. We don't mind the personality of any. What you're saying is that we can't do Tomislav Nikolic, or I can't see him in my eyes, you're wrong. The political struggle is such that it implies that the argument is made, that it is politically accounted for by arguments. I'm telling you, and you're a witness. His victory remains under suspicion. Is it not under suspicion, why did Europe congratulate him at 1700? Why? Isn't that some logic to make a man wonder a little, to say if it's all fair, was it honorable? Not according to us radicals. It will be known, as everything is fleeting, that the power is both fleeting and fleeting. You're deeply aware of that. There'll be a change when the Serbian radicals get into a situation, we'll check everything, nothing will remain a secret. As well as for crime, so shall we. Why is it that both part of it and how crime was committed, but a new kind of crime that was used by buying votes, setting up elections, etc., and all that West was looking at, by putting his hand on his eyes and not noticing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54588	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the line, Dr. Martinovic. What about me? Yes, you'll be next. You'll admit it's realistic to let the other side go, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54589	I must say that this argument concerning the victory of Tomislav Nikolic, i.e. in doubting the victory of Tomislav Nikolic in the 2012 presidential elections, which we just heard, reminds me in a lot of reminders of the argument that Bosko Obradovic, Bojan Pajtic, etc. Less, more all of them serve the same argument that Tomislav Nikolic's victory is under sign because some EU officials mistakenly congratulated him on his victory at 17.00 p.m. and the elections ended, or the vote ended at 20.00 p.m. What's a fact, it's that Tomislav Nikolic won those elections, whether someone liked it or not. And what is also a fact, whether someone liked it or not, Aleksandar Vucic is the first politician in Serbia who had the courage to deal with people such as Kosmajac, the Ministry of Justice, the BIA and other competent authorities and services, together with his co-workers from the Ministry of Justice, and the other authorities and services. Not that someone couldn't start a trial against them, but you shouldn't mention their name. Miskovic composed the governments as he wanted, the laws were written as he wanted, the ministers in the government were people he directly appointed or later replaced. It's all gone now. Serbia is a free country, Serbia is a state leading the fight against crime and corruption. I point out again, I agree with you, I wish there were more legally solved cases in the area of corruption and organised crime, but we have to let time do its part. We're on the verge of major reforms. When it comes to our judiciary, I hope that these reforms will also give effect when it comes to the processing of cases that come from organised crime and corruption. As far as winning the DOS regime is concerned, we can talk about what we want now. What is the fact that there was no change in 2012, the question is whether Serbia today would have existed as a state at all, because the situation, economic, financial, was such that, practically, Serbia as the state was on the verge of collapse and if it hadn't been for the same Alexander Vukic and his brave reforms that began in late 2013 and early 2014, Serbia would never have been as economically successful as it is today, we would never have had this many investments, this many new jobs, we would never have new tunnels, new bridges, new highways like this through the Gredic ravine. None of this would be, we would be one small Balkan dark state in which tycoons reign, in which only they wonder, would be none of what we are witnessing today, if we were one of the most economically advanced states and that is a great success both Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good, and I agree with you on that, and we all agree that Serbia's economic progress is being followed by progress in the fight against crime or corruption, but there is a crucial role of the courts. I hope that the judges will have enough social awareness and responsibility to understand and understand that the crimes in the field of organised crime, in the area of corruption cancer of the Serb society and that they literally eat those crimes that have not been processed, eat part of the results that we achieve on the economic plan. So, the Serbian Progressive Party wants a two-way fight. One is the struggle for Serbia's economic transformation, this has gone hand in hand, and the second track is an unfettered fight against crime and corruption, and we point to the importance of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia, and here we point to the importance of each individual judge who acts in corruption and organised crime cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54590	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54591	This is how it was. In 2008, and two or three years earlier, it was quite certain that the Serbian Radical Party would win some of the next elections. We had 81 MPs back then, a year before that 78. And all of us, all the MPs, when we were 78, were Aleksandar Vukic, Martinovic was in both of them, were myself, and Mircic, and Natasha, so it was enough for us to present to the citizens of Serbia how many criminals were representatives of Boris Tadic's regime, including Kostunica's before that. At that time, we, as MPs, claimed that Dinkic would be put in jail for it, that we would put Djelic in jail for it, that and that, so Labus, and Vlahovic, and Gilas. Anything with concrete reasons for that. And that was the reason for Serbian citizens, among other things, to say -- e, these will really put away these yellow thieves. What happened? When it was certain that Serbian radicals would do so, then the services, both our and our sides, and then they started to go after the party and then they found their pawns and then there was a part of the people who separated from the Serbian Radical Party to create a pro-European party, to hinder the arrival of the Serbian Radical Party to power. This is absolutely true. As for the objections to court, and then the judges don't rule, we don't hear anything about how many of these proposals for the judge's disciplinary procedure. And more importantly, where did the judges not judge? Criminal charges against Dinkic -- she's gone, she's gone, she's gone -- she's gone, she's gone -- she's gone, she's gone, she's gone -- she's gone. How will the judges judge? To come to work and say, "Let me judge Labus now, and there's no criminal record." Don't turn the game around. We're not exactly naive not to understand. Furthermore, we do not doubt the victory of Tomislav Nikolic, you suspected. After the first round, you took out the sacks and claimed that you had been robbed of your election, etc. Where are your bags? Where's the procedure? What did you find out? Did someone really steal from you or not? Don't, my people, you're going back to something that doesn't suit you very much to return to. We don't have any problem. We were clean and then and now. And we've been saying what we're saying right now. We just want the citizens of Serbia to understand that. The fact that you're boasting, it's already going on, with Miskovic and Kosmajec, no one was allowed to touch them. Well, when Miskovic was arrested, when I saw what was written in that indictment, and I am convinced that Mr Martinovic, whose legal knowledge I have no doubt, thought he said - well, this man would be released, how does this suit him? How will he be responsible for corruption, and Boris Tadic as someone who has made it possible for him not to be touched in this criminal report? And I'll remind you of the Cosmic. You know, that's the one, he says, whose name no one was allowed to say. And then the journalist who was set up to develop the story, she says -- and, well, the only thing we know about him is that he lives on Cosmaj, because his last name is Cosmaj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54592	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54593	Despite the election theft that took place in 2012, despite those sacks you spoke of, Tomislav Nikolic again won. Imagine how much more convincing his victory would have been if it hadn't been for election theft organised by Boris Tadic? That's one thing. The other thing is, you're saying here and you're transferring us -- and where's the criminal charges against Dinkic, and where's the criminal charges against Djelic, against this or that. Well, why didn't you take it? Who's stopping you from filing a criminal report? Criminal charges aren't charges, because some people laugh at me, because they don't seem to distinguish between criminal charges and charges. Who's stopping you? If you have evidence, fold the tab, which our people would say, so file a criminal report against anyone you suspect committed any crime. But I don't think there's any need for you and I to convince each other of the things we agree on. It's not a problem with the executive. It's not a problem with the Home Office's work. It's not a problem in the work of a security-informative agency. These people do everything they can to get relevant evidence that those suspected of being brought to justice. There's a problem in one part, not to turn out now that the entire judiciary is ineffective and bad, but there's a problem in one part of our judiciary that seems to knowingly obstruct the executive's intention to deal with crime and corruption. And that's the problem. (Petar Jojic: Resolution. I agree, solution. But it's a process that lasts. So there's a lot of trouble in our country. But on the other hand, you go to one extreme and say nothing is done. A lot's been done. Much has been done on both political and economic, both legal and judicial, and on any other basis. In 2019, Serbia simply cannot compare any parameters with Serbia in 2012. These are essentially two different countries. A country in which the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, in essence, in a political sense, in economic terms, has nothing to do with the state in which the President of the Republic was Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic left us with ruins, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic will leave future generations of new investment, new jobs, new factories, new highways, new bridges, new tunnels. They'll leave, which is very important, never better, never stronger relations, both political and economic and military, and with the Russian Federation, both with China and with our other friends in the world. It will remain remembered in history that during the term of office of Aleksandar Vukic a reverse process has been launched when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. During Boris Tadic, the states raced to recognise Kosovo and Metohija sooner. Now many countries are withdrawing recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. This suggests that Serbia has become a strong state, that Serbia has gained a reputation in the international community, that we have become a credible partner. We have no illusions that our friends are everywhere in the world. But we try to make our sincere friends more honest, and those who were more or less open enemies to us by yesterday, even if they were no longer our enemies and we were partners with which we could work in a reasonable way. It's one responsible policy. It's one rational policy. It is the only possible policy in this difficult time in which Serbia and the Serbian people are located. Well, does nothing tell you the fact that there is no bigger event than the political, economic or other importance that is happening in the Republic of Serbia, and that, together with Aleksandra Vukic, the event is not attended by Milorad Dodik, and Milorad Pupovac and the political champions of the Serbs from Montenegro. (The Faith of Radeta: Scott.) All right, you say Scott. Can we beat America? We can't. So we can't beat America. You're laughing now. We can't beat America. Let's go from those we can't beat, who were our enemies and who bombed us, to even trying to make some partners. You're laughing now and I understand your position. You're an opposition party, you're not responsible for anything, you can laugh, you can laugh, you can throw away, you can put yourself in the role of the President of the Republic. All right, everybody, put your You win the election, so you'll be happy to sit where he sits. So put yourself in the role of the President of the Republic, and you'll see how difficult his job is. Every day you face countless pressures, a great burden, and every day you have to make difficult decisions. And the people of Serbia understand well how delicate it is and how difficult Alexander Vukic's position is, but at the same time, the people understood the moves he made well. Many also doubted fiscal reform, many doubted when he said that we would rebuild and strengthen our army. Many doubted when he said that we would strengthen our ties with Republika Srpska. Here, now we're all, and you from the opposition and us and from the government, living witnesses that it's all true. So tenacity, diligence, work, effort, courage, it's worth it, but it's a hard way. Heroes and great men always choose the hard way. The others choose easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54594	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54595	Three things. When you mentioned those sacks and again some big victory that was after the sacks, the question is, why has the public never found out if there really was a theft in that first round? You're the government, in the meantime, that's what you're supposed to be questioning. It's another thing. You've allowed one big theft, so today we all have a headache, because you've allowed Kyle Scott to introduce to the National Assembly parliamentary groups that didn't have 5% of the votes won, as much as it takes for the censorship. And you never wanted to be questioned. So he found himself in the benches and Bosko Obradović and this Sanda and these Tadics, etc. If they had come to the National Assembly because the people voted, no one would have minded, but we all know it wasn't like that. So you're not principled about it and that's one problem. Another problem, or other thing I want to draw attention to, do not represent us as ignorant. We know what criminal charges are, we know what the charge is. I'm talking about what you are, what we promised together, when you were Serbian radicals, and I'm talking about what you didn't do in the meantime. And where are the charges? Where are the charges? Who's that for? Where is it stuck here? To the judge? No, brother. No, brother. Is the police working for you? Do they work for the D.A.'s office? Where's the evidence? And you know for yourself how many there are and you know that there are, after all, all of Serbia. You're saying why didn't we file criminal charges? Well, here, I'll tell you one example of a criminal report, and it's not the only one that was filed by the SRS. The one I'm talking about was signed nearly seven years ago by Zoran Krasic, and he added evidence to some 80 pages. This criminal report covers all actors of adoption, signing of Brussels agreements, from those who prepared it to those who signed it. So, the criminal report includes both Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic and Borko Stefanović and Ivica Dačić and Tomislav Nikolic and Vuk Jeremic and Aleksandar Vukic and Marko Djuric. Maybe I skipped someone. So everyone who was in that chain. Never, never appeared a word about that criminal report. And, of course, filing criminal charges by opposition people in advance is known to be a failed business. Where did this come to you, Zagorka Dolovac, State, Republic Public Prosecutor? Did she say one thing, did she run away somewhere, and everything happened in Serbia? There's been a lot going on. Some positive things have happened. Of course, everything you've kept, which is part of the SRS program, we'll never say we're against it. Well, how could we be against close co-operation with the Republika Srpska? How could we be against co-operation with the Russian Federation? How could we be against building these infrastructure facilities? It's all what's the attitude and what's the SRS program, but we're against you paying, selling jobs, giving 10,000 euros to different foreigners who come here for a certain time, so they leave, actually exhausting our people who work here for 200 or 250 euros a month, instead of giving that money to our people, to our farmers, to our businessmen, so that they do everything they can to expand their production, to, of course, stay in Serbia, because they want it, so that we truly get new jobs, etc. So, what's in line with the SRS program whoever's representing it, we're going to support it in that part. But what's not in line with that program, we'll always be the strongest critics. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned and the stories of how much these confessions are now being withdrawn, it certainly is very important, but then it is interesting why the state summit does not react in this way. But we'll talk about Kosovo and Metohija in a few days. As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't be spreading that story right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54596	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54597	Here, now of all these powerful Dinkic, Djelic and other thieves, you said you filed a criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic for the Brussels agreements. (Verica Radeta: No, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic... I listened carefully, I didn’t throw it to you, so I hope you will listen to me. So, you of all these thieves and bastards listed Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic as regards the Brussels agreements, and you are not going to say that most of the Brussels Agreement refers to the formation of the Serb municipality community, which Pristina is obstructing, with probably one part of the support of the International Community. What you're talking about is so-called. False investment, these famous 10,000 euros, is the same story by Bosko Obradovic, said by DS, is the same story by people from Vuk Jeremic's party. You simply deceive the citizens. Citizens should know that there is a Law on State Aid in the Republic of Serbia and a Law on State Aid, which everyone can read, is no secret, makes no difference between investors coming from Germany and investors from Mladenec, Sokobanje or Sudotica. So everyone is an investor and everyone is under the same conditions in a position to get, what the people say, subsidies, and the law says state aid. And in that sense, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is neither favoring nor damaging anyone. Also, you are wrong when you are saying something that is also a lie that serves this second part of the opposition that is currently not in the hall, which allegedly boycotts the assembly, when you say investors are leaving Serbia. Give me an investor who has left Serbia in the last few years. There aren't any. Investors are coming to Serbia. We open new factories every day. That story about people in certain factories working for 200 euros, wearing diapers, so that's the DS story, that's the story, Ken, that's the story of Alexander Jerkov, that's the story of those who have nothing else to talk about, and then they make it up. That's Balša Bozovic's story. When the Chinese opened the Meita factory in Obrenovac, he was here talking about how we are introducing a slave system in Serbia. Be careful, one of the world's largest companies comes and chooses Obrenovac, so a city municipality in Belgrade, to invest, and a man who was at the time the president of the city board of DS Balša Bozovic says – you bring Chinese slave owners to take advantage of labor here in Obrenovac, people wear diapers, etc. This diaper story was initiated by Aleksandra Jerkov. I beg you, you are a serious messenger, you have been in the National Assembly for many years, don't take hold of those lies and of those fictions. There are no factories in Serbia where workers wear diapers, in which labour law is not respected and other positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia are not respected. I haven't heard from any workers in Serbia who are employed in any of these companies who have complained about working conditions, pay, work conditions, or any other problem they may have. Of course, you can look at all of this on the side and criticise this or that detail, but essentially we have done what, and the citizens of Serbia understand what it is called, we haven't completed this process until the end, but we have largely started it, and we are almost on our way to ending it, re-industrating Serbia. All that was ruined in the wars during the 1990s, all that was ruined during the sanctions, all that was ruined during the Dossos regime, Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government managed to bring them back to life. We're not just a rural agricultural country anymore. We are a country with a strong industry in the area of car production, components for cars, tractors, connection machines, etc. During Boris Tadic, during his rule, you know what investment was -- when Miroslav Miskovic sells "Delta Holding" to Delese. The DS recorded it as an investment in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Today as an investment, we record the opening of a factory, every new factory from Saturday to Vranj, and as you can see, we make no difference. We're not talking about decentralisation, like they said. For us, every part of the Republic of Serbia is equally important for Presevo, and Bujanovac, and Vranje, both Belgrade and Novi Sad. There is no part of Serbia we have not invested in. There's not nearly a municipality in Serbia where we haven't done something, somewhere along the way, a new plumbing, a new sewer network, a new factory, a new railroad. We do what has not been done in Serbia for hundreds of years. We continue the work of Kranj Milan Obrenović, continue the work of Nikola Pasic, continue the work of Lazar Pachu. They started modernising Serbia. We continue to send Milan Stojadinovic to have a strong dinar. When the money was stronger over the past few decades.? When was inflation lower? Milan Stojadinovic's textbook, Lazar Pacu's textbook leads fiscal and monetary policy in Serbia, and you say that's not the case. I don't mention the World Bank on purpose now, or the IMF, because I know that you will immediately jump and say that they are not relevant, but I know that you have read Milan Stojadinovic and tell me, what measure he has taken in his time has Alexander Vukic not taken to strengthen the state of Serbia? Here, tell me which one? There is no measure. All the measures known to the financial science of his age, Milan Stojadinovic, who doctored in Munich, we applied just us, not because we were very smart, but because we had the courage to apply heavy measures. Because Milan Stojadinović also knew what Aleksandar Vucic knows, severe pains instantly, but give good results in the long run. Boris Tadic, Aleksandra Jerkov, and all those who are not present, never had the courage to take painful measures because they knew the painful measure of pain could lose the election. Alexander Vukic was never in front of that dilemma - I will not take heavy measures to avoid losing the election. He said a hundred times -- and if I have to, I'll lose the election, but I want to get Serbia out of the living mud it's in. Now, that's the size of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54598	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The faithful Radeta is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54599	Very short. I mean, my colleague Martinovic wasn't correct. He purposely left out to say that the criminal report we filed included Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Mirko Cvetkovic, as it is not correct to turn the topic like now - we Serbian radicals speak something like some of the park's squatters there. It's just amazing. Did I mention diapers here? I didn't. We're talking from a completely different angle and don't connect us to them. You're much more like them. Now let's remind ourselves that your campaign president was saying that DS policy is good, only that the progressors will be able to implement it faster. So when you took over power, then even Ceda Jovanovic said that your policy was great, because you took over what the Democrats and LDP advocated, etc. What makes you different when it comes to the EU, when it comes to perpetrators, when it comes to, I don't know, the situation in the judiciary, the prosecution investigations, the notaries, what have you taken over? Everything under the password -- it would be unserious if we as a state were to break something that someone had started before us. It is simply not because the new government certainly has the right to direct politics both internally and externally in line with that programme that represented voters in the elections. I really wouldn't spread this story any further, but I'm just asking that when we're discussing being correct. You can connect us to whoever you want, but don't connect to the one under the tent. We really have absolutely nothing to do with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54600	Thank you, colleague Radeta, for your correctness. Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54601	You ask, what differs us? The people of Serbia have said what we are different. In the 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017 elections, the people of Serbia both drew a clear distinction between Alexander Vukic and SNS on the one hand and all those who were in power until 2012 on the other. Boris Tadic promised that the highway through the Grdelička gorge would be completed by 2009. Who finished it? Alexander Wolfie. They were talking about Belgrade on the water. Who started this project, essentially – who started it? No new towers from month to month. Alexander Wolfie. They talked, and we are working and the people of Serbia understand the difference between story and work. As for this criminal report, which you filed, including against Alexander Vukic for the purposes of the Brussels agreements, it is not true that there was no court case at which it was not discussed. As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I attended a session of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia to assess the constitutionality of the Brussels agreements. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) Well, it is because you have said that you have filed a criminal report, and no instance has responded. He reacted to the Constitutional Court who said... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )......................................................................................................... That is because his enemies said he had concluded an international agreement with the false state of KIM, and the Constitutional Court said it was not an international agreement, not to be subject to ratification in the National Assembly but rather to a political nature agreement. It was a great victory for Alexander Vukic and the SNS because we did not sign the Brussels Agreement with representatives of an independent state. We signed an agreement, when I say - we, in particular Ivica Dacic 2013, as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina and were treated by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court of Apropo of your criminal charges did not treat Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj, or Ljam, or anyone else as representatives of an independent state, but as representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina, and in that sense, the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia won one great political victory because they raced in attacks against Alexander Vukic, those who accused him of being the greatest traitor, each of whom had cast curses on him, kept a living man fertilized, etc., and I don't mean you, I mean some others. Remember that in KIM yesterday, the people said everything they had to say about Alexander Vukic's politics when it comes to KIM and you and I can argue until tomorrow, Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica, Zubin Potok, Leposavic, Zvecan said who they believed and who they supported. They support Alexander Vukic, support the SNS, and have proved this by a convincing victory in the Serbian list. It can crack, end, and Boris Tadic and Bosko Obradović and Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Vuk Jeremic and all the other great Serbs in the circle of two, Serbs in KIM are the only ones they trust – they trust Aleksandra Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54602	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. I have a registered colleague, Mircic, but I would ask him really, we've been through everything since the Yugoslav Radical Community, Stojadinović, Kosovo, the economy, and I've learned a lot from both you and Mr Martinovic. You'll have your chance again, just give me a chance to continue in accordance with Article 112. I have to cut it, then there's no end to this. We've moved away from the darkness. Collegially and honestly, please. Milorad Mircic, please don't say after we finish every discussion of members of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54603	There is no normal man who does not care about preventing corruption and crime in Serbia, there is no one, but there is something worse than not fighting corruption, it is a selective fight against corruption. The selective fight against corruption is increasing the problem facing Serbia, and you are currently dealing with the fight against corruption. You arrested Miskovic and proved in court and by his lawyers and defences that in most cases he worked in accordance with the law and at the same time argued that he had on the payroll many ministers, many officials. Was it not the logic of the thing that Miskovic made an agreement, that the minister of trade was responding, that the finance minister was responding, that the police minister was responding? At all costs, he would like to be free of any prison sentence. What he used, lobbying, that's part of it. When I said that in this House there was one of the hotspots of corruption, so after the election, it was clear to everyone that Kyle Scott had introduced a group of MPs. Look where they are now. They don't know where they are anymore. What kind of election is this, what kind of state is it when an ambassador, so he was just an ambassador of the United States, can end the election results? He can repeat it at individual polling stations and watch it, what a coincidence, right in those polling stations where they have the chance to get more votes. As for Mr. Martinovic, what is the difference between the economy run by Milan Stojadinovic and the current one -- large, drastic. Just one example. For dinar Milan Stojadinovic, then Yugoslavia you could market both in Vienna and in Paris and London, and for this dinar you can only within Serbia's borders and nowhere else. So this stability is not guaranteed by the name Milan Stojadinovic, but because it was a healthy and developed economy. What I want in the end, Mr. Martinovic, is the crown of recognition for everything that the SRS stands for at the expense of Tomislav Nikolic has just given your new SNS party. When he's so good to you, when he's so honest, when he's so honest, that you haven't run for president for second time, when he's enjoyed general popularity, when he's won his first election in a regular way? I guess the logic of the thing is that you're running him another time because he was your party president because he founded your party. And you're aware that he's a great distraction, that a man's constraint in crime, that he's no longer in control, and that's why you put him on the sidelines, and you gave him the comfort of giving him a villa so that he doesn't feel xenophobic, so you gave him about 400 or 500 square feet to walk with his darling. There is no greater recognition than what you did, which is why you didn't run for office, and that's why you won the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54604	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54605	You just said you weren't burdened with Tomislav Nikolic, here's what I see now that it is, but it doesn't matter. At the time of Milan Stojadinovic, Mr Mircic, there was no euro. So every country in Europe had its national currency, so you can't compare the change of dinars for national currencies at the time of Milan Stojadinovic with today's situation where there is a euro as a common currency at EU level. You're wrong about Miskovic. Miroslav Miskovic was first-degreed and first-degreed and second-timed convicted by his son Marko and sentenced by Milo Djuraskovic. That's the full truth about that case. So don't claim they haven't been processed. Processed, and you can either be satisfied with the verdict or the punishment that has been imposed. As regards what you said about Milan Stojadinovic, mentioned by Vladimir Marinkovic as vice-president of the National Assembly, Milan Stojadinovic did not start his reform in 1935 as prime minister of finance in the government of Nikola Pasic in 1923. The Serbian dinar then became strong, but it doesn't matter years, it matters. The dinar today is worth more than it has ever been worth in Serbia's modern economic history. It's the success of this government, it's the success of the NBS. Everything we've done when it comes to attracting investment, opening new jobs, when it comes to large infrastructure projects, it couldn't be done if we didn't have a strong fiscal background. Until a few years ago, if you told someone that Serbia could compete with Croatia, that we were not going further into some much more developed EU countries, when it comes to the length of highways per mile, people would laugh at you. We have caught up with Croatia today, without any affairs, without any Sanaders, without any FIMI media, without any of what followed the construction of highways in Croatia, without any car-storage of dalmatins etc. You know very well what I'm talking about. Just, honestly, in accordance with the law, and you could see yesterday, or the day before yesterday, when a new share of the road was opened through the grizzly ravine, how clogged the construction project was. Everyone's been talking about it since the time of Draža Markovic, and then here, about that road being made. Who made it and who finished it? Alexander Wolfie. He promised the people, kept his promise. That's how Alexander Vukitch works, that's what SNS does.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54606	Thank you, fellow Martinovich. I thank all those who participated in this circle of replicas. We can move on. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I love everything to support the documents. I was talking about Dragan Sutanovac, whom we call us a few Dragan grabs. A former army minister, a man who made a minority family of Pera Kvrzice. There was only a military orchestra that worked, as far as I could tell. He drowned everything that could be melted, sold tanks for $5,000, and let's just say his associate in Smederjevska Palanca had a beer worth more than $5,000 in one evening. That means the Sutanovac sold a tank for Mr. Heineken's evening party. So Mr. Heineken drank the whole tank. It's an interesting verdict that freed Mr. Sutanovac, because he didn't know that his pronoun didn't report the property to the Wizard, which is why he was released. But in that judgment there are interesting details, apartment 48 m2, house 157 m2, apartment 63 m2. Then he says, 5,654 in one euro account, on the other 6,122, that's not so bad, and then 90,000 euros in the third account, and then there's a savings stake at the Bank of Intesa, or 260,856 euros, and then in cash at the Bank of Intesa again, 175,000 euros. All in all, when you add up you get an amazing number that's 300, 400 thousand euros, or 300, 400 thousand dollars depending on what currency you have. Now the big question is, how can some minister with a thousand-euro salary have this much money in his account and that this big, say, Judge Majic, didn't deal with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54608	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54609	Just to see where I left off with this suit-bearer. Mr. Martinovic is, I think, Mr. Chairman, to ask Mr. Martinovic, he may have fresher data than I do, but this is not all. So this functioner who's against double functions or whatever they call these yellow ticks, they're against it. If someone accidentally gets another function, Mr. Martinovic, if he accidentally teaches somewhere, so Balša Bozovic immediately demonstrates it, it's cool, these have two salaries even though they surrender, it's their profession to be professors, women are immediately brought in, "N1" television that's unregistered, I don't know how they got accreditation here at all. So immediately, a big event is being performed, such as unsumpted yellows are fighting corruption. It's an amazing thing. But when you take it, Mr. Sutanovac had on the board of directors, it was something to do with the Air Force, as far as I know, whether he believed it or not a month ago, next to the minister's salary, imagine when the minister goes to the board of directors to get 671,835.00 dinars a month. So that's amazing. I think Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Martinovic, had to have one big safe, that all that money, as it was -- uncle, is this all yours? So I think you should ask Mr. Grab-A-Walk - Mr. Grab-A-Walk, is this all your money? For that money, three thousand pensions can be paid. For these 671,835.00 dinars a month, you could pay off, I think, like, 30 pensions. So 30 pensions, 30 pensioners were mourned and had no pension, because Mr. Grabanovac took the right to pay a thousand and to all those Euros, dollars, 300 thousand, 100 grand, etc., to take another 30 pensions to the board of directors, i.e. 671,835.00 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54610	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The right to the replica has Dr. Martinovic, you mentioned him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54611	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here's another proof of hypocrisy and debauchery, this time the party of Vuk Jeremic. Mrs. Kuburovic, you probably know that on behalf of Belgrade's Bar Association the statement was signed by Vladimir Gajic, who is otherwise president of the legal council, so-called. The People's Party Vuk Jeremic, which says Belgrade's Bar Association opposes the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia because the bill allegedly does not comply with the current Constitution of Serbia, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention against Torture. Watch this, watch the absurd, watch the nonsensus of someone who is a lawyer and someone who is president of Belgrade's Bar Association, we introduce a life sentence for the martyrs, and he says that by introducing punishment for the martyrs, it is not in accordance with the Convention against Torture and other cruel or humiliating penalties, as well as the rules that state revenge is forbidden in all circumstances. Why do I want to say this? Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, DS associated or not, no longer matters, have no courage to say that until Tijana's law entered the assembly procedure, they were for his adoption. Now that the law is in the process and will be voted tomorrow, they all stand up in turn against Tijana's law. Now it doesn't matter either Tijana Juric died or Igor Juric, now it doesn't matter, now they matter, and now it's supposed to matter their fight for human rights and freedoms. But, watch out, they don't have the courage to say it openly -- we can't, not let Dragan Dilas come to the National Assembly, but hide behind Belgrade's Bar Association, abuse the Bar Association and then Vladimir Gajic, as a allegedly independent lawyer, and basically a politician, the chairman of the legal council of the Vuk Jeremic party, says he is against Tijana's law because he is the opposite, says, the Convention that prohibits torture. Otherwise, the latest news is this folk hero, what's called, Radoslav Milojic, Partisan name Kena. He boasted of all the voices, he would come to the National Assembly for his children, for other people's children, etc. Here, today's statement, be careful how scared Dragan Gilas is, they talk about some dictatorship in Serbia, and they seduced the dictatorship in their own ranks, he says he won't come to the vote tomorrow, and he's pierced our brains from day to day, and via Twitter, and through "N1", and through this or that television, here he comes to the Assembly to vote for Tijana's law. Well, how are they not ashamed? It just shows that they don't care about the late Tijana Juric, or that little baby who died in that helicopter, and that's where they tried to score a political point. Wherever there's a tragedy in Serbia, wherever anyone doesn't give God his death, he gets hurt, who's to blame? It's Alexander Wolfie's fault. Why is he guilty? Well, that's why we hate him. He's guilty because there's no Tiana law. Here's Tijana's law, as you wrote it, almost in a letter, came into congregation procedure and we'll vote for it tomorrow. Where are these great advocates of human rights and freedoms, who say they're for children's rights? Where is this Bosko Obradovic who says it's for family and family values? They're nowhere to be found. Why? Because they profit from human tragedy, because they profit from someone's death. Such MPs have never been to the National Assembly. We could have been fighting and fighting, but no one thought to profit from the death of a child or the death of a baby. Shame on them!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54612	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, just to be sure, Mr. Chairman, tell Mr. Martinovic that this barrister's gromada, as it is called, Gajic, has been the subject of quite a fight against corruption in its time. I don't know what the director's name was, but I forgot, from the Demochrist Party and something like that, he was brought in with him. It's probably the yellow judiciary, they probably pardoned him, but to be against us, of course. Anyway, I think he's been arrested in the Genex affair, if I'm not mistaken. It's that big barrister, etc., if I didn't tell you why he was born in Marseille, strange conclusions would come to a generational series like that, I'd better keep my mouth shut, and for him, even better. So, that, if you pulled a bloodline there, you'd get everything, I mean maybe even to the Gestapo, I'm not sure, but I'd better keep my mouth shut. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a corruption party. As Mr Bosko Obradović Boškić Ljotic buys his MPs. You all know that he was against the Mason, and it turns out that with his right wing, his right knee sits the Maska Marija Janjušević. But there is also Zoran Radojicic who opposed it, who opposed party corruption. So, I was taking it out to my colleague Martinovic, and you, we were giving it to corruption-related data. Here, says Radojicic, and for me it is a positive surprise, writes to its members of the Dvori - we are also silent about financial malfeasance and serious crime that we are involved in without our knowledge. The Dvori finance is hidden from both the state and members and party officials. One report is sent to the internal structure, another state, and the third, the real and famous few people, none of us know the real flow of money. Maybe they don't know, but I know, so I'll talk in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54614	Thank you. I'll tell my colleague Martinovic, and you speak freely, don't hesitate. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54615	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine when one party in the election campaign spent 5,665,000 on electrical works for three months, all on entrepreneurial works, PR, MK-TEL, an independent electronic campaign by Stari Banovci etc., Branislav Simidzija PR, MK-TEL and spent 5,665,000. It's about big corruption. It is about the money pump that was won for the campaign at the presidential campaigns held at the end of 2016 and 2017, the state's money was given to me somewhere around 30 million, and if that money is not spent in the campaign, the obligation was, by law, to get the money back to the state, meaning in the budget. So it's about robbing the budget and you take that money so you can bribe certain members inside the management, and I'll prove how. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so, just for electrical works in two PR stores, imagine, as if they were building a building and introducing electricity. I mean, the substations probably bought 5,665,000, I was checking, that's how much they cost two 300 kilowatt substations. So two could buy, probably improve that kind of tension within the party. Then you have Zeljka Cvianović PR, Ivan Cvianovic, Verica Cvianovic. Ivan Cvianovic, as I recall, whether he or Nenad Cvianovic, were mostly committees, i.e. on the electoral list of the organisation calling itself the Serbian Dvori. I think it's Gilas' Dvori, not the Serbian Dvori. Now, when you look at it, they got into one house, at two entrepreneurial stores of 9,698,000 dinars, so that I wouldn't abuse further time, so, Mr. Martinovic, you think this isn't true, and as it is true, so for now I've listed some 15 million dinars that are directly squeezed into the pockets of St. Boskovic's left hand, Boskovic Ljatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54616	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 69th amendment. Would you like a word, colleague Risticevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54617	He said Radojićic - about spending money was discreetly decided by a few people, first of all Bosko Obradović and Jugoslav Kiprijanovic, who blocked the streets, which blocks works, and otherwise he was on the Parliament payroll, Mr Martinovic, and all the time now that this Bastac was unhappy, he blocked the works with him not to do the Square of the Republic, instead of working in the Assembly, he came and worked, I thought he wanted to be a builder. So he says this -- lawyers' offices, like in The Hague, that they were from the Dvora, so, in a few months, 3,260,000. I don't know what the legal tariffs are, but this, brother, is a lot for The Hague, let the gentlemen here know, 3,260,000, the candidate on the list was one of the winners of Mrs. Vazetic, was a candidate for Serbian MPs, or the Gilas movement of Dveri. Let's move on, a certain "Jefimia Design", Kostadin Mihailovic and Katarina PR, that means business. I apologize for listing names, but that's what entrepreneurship stores are called. So that was 3,900,600 dinars. They are also on the election list of the Serbian Dvora Movement. Let's move on, Nevena Tomic, I think it's a committee in Palilula, so it's about people who are very close to Obradovic, so they've been on all his election lists, they've got a studio design of 3,400,000 dinars. I think she got another dollar from up there, but we're about to get an amount that's approaching 30 million. Then you have Jelena Manic, that's Crepaja, so it's about Crepaja, which she also got for design, these are designed. I thought Gilas designed them. Why were they paying these members when the design was exclusively the right of Mladjana Djordjevic and Dragan Đilas, another 2,790,000 dinars, a total of 28,690.600 dinars, Bosko Ljotić Obradovic, washed up and that is what Mr. Radojić himself admitted and wrote, I no longer claim only I, but within his MPs and his officials claim that Mr. Kyprijanovic and Mr. Obradović have embezzled this money and I call on the prosecution to finally do his job, and I believe that, on the criminal record, he wants to play chess, he wants to break, fly in with the saws, the gallows. I think it's an act to portray himself as a dangerous political opponent who, as Bosko Pernar said, is not arrested because he has taken over, as he said, what he has sworn in Zagreb and Croatia is Ljotic, because he has taken up, as Bosko Pernar says, 30 million, but wants to say that we are after him because he is a political opponent and is working well with Bosko Pernar, Bulgaria's Atak, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54618	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. You mentioned him, Mr. Risticevic, by his name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54619	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The MP to the DS people known as Kena has now invented an excuse why he will not attend tomorrow's session of the National Assembly and vote for Tijana's law. He says - because the DS committee was beaten at the meeting of the Municipality Assembly in Književci Dalibor Stanojevic. That's a notorious lie. Dalibor Stanojevic attacked a SNS councilman in front of a catering facility in Književec and inflicted minor physical injuries on him. So it was not at all any session of the Assembly and no one attacked, especially the president of the Književec municipality did not attack Stanojevic, but Stanojevic attacked the SNS council member. But what about that other part of what Mr. Milojic said - that he would vote for Tijana's law for his children and for other children in Serbia? So wait, Master, what's more important to you, Stanojevic or your child, Stanojevic or other children in Serbia? He says, the beaten DS boardman in Književec, beat him up by the SNS, beat him up by the president of the municipality, man can't walk. There's a man, 120 kilos of live scale, speaking on Saturday at the Terrasian Cemetery and calling for the destruction of the dictatorial regime of Alexander Vukic. So who's the beaten man who can't stand on his feet giving a political speech? So it's another brutal lie and a brutal lie. Why do I insist on this? To understand and to understand that the citizens of Serbia would understand who has teamed up here and conspired against you and me and not against the assembly majority, against the state of Serbia. Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, individual lawyers, individual judges, individual NGOs, that Dunja Mijatovic, who says this is not in line with European standards and is in line with European standards in Germany, the Netherlands, the UK, Slovenia, etc., all of them live against the state of Serbia. But tomorrow, Marco, tomorrow we'll show that the state of Serbia is stronger than all of them together and some of them in the crowd. They all showed their real faces. This is the real face of all of them. They all stood in one sack and Gilas, and Obradovic, and Jeremic and DS and individual NGOs and individual ambassadors and individual representatives, self-called, or famous, individual European institutions. They all stood in one bag. Tomorrow we will tear up that sack and show the citizens of Serbia that they are hypocrites, that they are cowards, that they are thieves, that they are people whose niche is not sacred or the lives of children killed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54620	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 70th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Do you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Martinovic, you certainly remember how we collected this to get to this data, how the corrupt Dvori, as they corrupted the other members who left Boška Obradovica after joining the Alliance for Serbia to be left unsettled. So, Bosko Obradovic, whom the Assembly pays for his apartment on Dedinj, near Pink, to be close to him when he starts on "Pink". So the money, like this, says, four million for electric works, the same day raised in cash, all the money was cashed up. I'm patient, with Mr. Martinovic, right here. So, how much money Bosko Obradovic has transferred to entrepreneurship, under the control of his candidates and how quickly they raised the next day. So there was no repro material. This one pays you, I don't know, I have to move away, I have short arms, this one pays you three million 577 grand, or like Jelena Manic, pick it up in cash the next day and probably bring back Boška Obradovica. What else did Bosko Obradovic do as corrupt? And the rest of the money that was on, Mr. Radojićičić, I hope you're watching this, therefore, male jacket 24,000, male jacket 19,000, all at the expense of the party. He drinks, he eats, he dresses at the party's expense. Like this, a man's jacket three times, bought three pieces. What now is possible, with prices from 19,000 to 24,000. My suit costs 7,000. So, men's pants, look out, you can't go without pants, you have to buy him a party. He's a second member, first member. It means 12,600. Well, other men's pants. Well, winter goes, needs a man's coat. So that cost 12,500, a total of 109,000 dinars. Is this kind of internal political corruption in the party that we're talking about at the parties he's throwing? Well, for example, there's no homemade brandy at his parties. It's bills, I don't know, millions, somewhere in some expensive joints. Johnny Walker, Chivas, Jack Daniels, Jager, Master, Gene, Drive, Becks, then you have cocktails, says - sex on the beach, that's what it's called. If it's not corruption, then what's corruption? That's why he took Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54622	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Dr. Martinovic, right on line, you mentioned him again by his name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54623	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. All I have to do is correct and supplement my distinguished colleague Rističević. It is true that the Assembly pays Bosko Obradovic's apartment in Belgrade, but, Mr Risticevic, Bosko Obradovic doesn't live in Zemun Polje, he doesn't stop in Borca and Krnjaca, he lives in Dedinj. That's what Serbian citizens should know. So Bosko Obradovic lives in Dedinj, which is in the apartment of a man who owns the apartment that is from one city in southwestern Serbia, which is from the state of Serbia, Ivanjica city in the valley, who received subsidies from the state of Serbia to make the coolant so that the raspberries from its region have a place to put the raspberries away, that various buyers and resellers would not lower the price. He takes money from the state, makes a freezer, sells that same freezer, and buys an apartment in Belgrade for that money. In that apartment, Mr. Risticevic lives today a great defender of the Serbian people, Kosovo and Metohija, SPC, families and so on, Bosko Obradovic. That's what Serbian citizens should know. Which is another example of corruption. You mentioned Wolf Jeremiah. Now, Vuk Jeremic said on a television show that he was asking his political inexperience not to mention his name now, what he lives on. Well, he says I live off my salary. What pay? Well, he says, I'm getting paid as a board counselor for an investment fund manager, I'm not even going to name that investment fund so that someone doesn't call me against some foreign company. And tomorrow the investment fund comes forward and says that Vuk Jeremic has not received a single dollar as an adviser, nor as a member of the board of directors of that investment fund. And now I'm asking, is that corruption when you live on a high foot, when you spend on a daily level of thousands and tens of thousands of euros? When you waste money like you own an oil well in the United Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia, and no one knows where you work. Where's your master's job? Here, now you ask Vuk Jeremic, who is your job, in what job in Serbia, abroad can make that kind of money? He can't say because one day he's in one job, the second day is on the second, the third day is on the third, and in fact the only money, the clean money he received, received from the state of Serbia, at a monthly level of 8,500 euros while he was chairman of the UN General Assembly. And, there, instead of working for the state of Serbia, to convince at least one UN member state to withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, it participates in the biggest criminal and corruption affairs with the people of Hong Kong, from some other countries in the world and muddys the name of Serbia. Then it comes back and the citizens of Serbia need to know it, goes back to Serbia, tries to convince Alexander Vukic to run for President of the Republic in the 2017 presidential elections. Well, when Alexander Vukic didn't think of it until 2017, the citizens of Serbia, you know, only since 2017 for Vuk Jeremic and his party, Aleksandar Vukic is becoming a black devil because he said - I'm not going to have any business with you, the bastard who abused Serbia's position in the UN.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54624	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I know some colleagues are getting ready to speak until the break, but I have to apologize and I hope you'll understand, there's a delegation from the city of Sochi, the mayor of Sochi. I'm setting a break now. We continue at 15.00 hours, so in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you, and I'll see you at 3:00. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54626	I've submitted an amendment to this article in 88, and it's done in performances. I'm a little surprised this amendment hasn't been adopted. Here's the thing. It's now the play that addresses the agency's physical or legal face with data suspected of corruption. Now this article in 88 says what that notion should contain, so it must be neat and may be messy. So he either has all the data or he doesn't have all the data. If he doesn't have all the information so that person doesn't complete it, then the agency won't act on it. The Agency should continue the procedure on the basis of available information. Wherever there is a suspicion of corruption, it should be handled. He can't easily throw himself away. Wherever there's material evidence, it has to be examined first, whether or not all the data is there. It's the agency's job. It's a short procedure. All of this must be transparent and public, because in Serbia there is usually some suspicion, someone accused, and it is mostly over. Here, we had a chance to see here in the National Assembly, we heard colleagues and they know who was doing these crimes from the previous government, the agency existed and she started working somewhere in 2010, and it seems to me that she was that year, and she wasn't acting at all. I don't know if it's because of these notions now, if for any other reason, I'm not going to go into it, but the agency has to continue the procedure as soon as there's a reasonable doubt, because we sometimes hear about examples of corruption, we hear when the workers of some factory come out, we have a post office case that points to the case of corruption and say by name and last name, and the agency doesn't act at all. To justify her existence, to have a purpose, she doesn't even have to wait for performances, she should work as soon as there's doubt, to be examined, so now, she has or doesn't, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54627	The 93rd amendment was submitted by Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94. Proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption. I asked the amendment to delete the said article. By erasing this attitude, I asked for the reason that the term "integrity plan" is an abstraction that means nothing and does not make any sense. Corruption has always been a major social problem for all regimes, so this government is no exception in that regard. Corruption is always the most pronounced at the very top of the government, so the fight against corruption should begin with that level. There is no successful fight against corruption, unless authorities show by personal example that they are really ready to deal honestly with corruption. But how do you believe this if we know that many high-ranking state officials have come to their academic calling in a suspicious way. Cases of suspected diplomas and suspected PhDs of some state officials have never been resolved. Whoever in a suspicious way came to an academic calling is logically more prone to corruption than who came to that calling in a regular manner. Until cases of this kind of corruption are resolved, the overall fight against corruption is a dead letter on paper. So I urge members of the government to deal with this problem more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54629	The 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyic, with an apology to everyone for interrupting a little earlier session one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 95 of this bill, with an explanation that the issue of strengthening integrity, as it is laid here, will be brought to the attention of one formal procedure and the obligation to adopt integrity plans. Now to be clear, I don't like this term, because I don't think it's appropriate and it's not the happiest choice. As far as this bill is concerned, I must say that this is a repacked old, previous Anti-Corruption Act, which, in its jurisdiction, legal position and organisation, absolutely corresponds to the Anti-Corruption Agency. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the key and essential question is whether and how far all entities foreseen by law are prepared and able to predict and identify the area and processes, in which they can appear and determine the degree of risk of this harmful and highly widespread social phenomenon. So far, the results of the work of these organs have been untrustworthy. How much we have opened these corrupt affairs in this House alone, how much we have heard corrupt stories about heroes who are immeasurable by building tent settlements in the most exclusive part of the capital and thus pointing their finger at the eyes and mocking all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54631	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic to Article 96. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 96th proposal of this law. We all know it's about preventing corruption. I want to say to this occasion that corruption is a major problem that has been present in all times, in all regimes, and that it is impossible to eliminate fully. Now the question is, how do we fight something, what are we in advance aware that it can't be completely eliminated? There's one logical answer, which is, if we know we can't eliminate something, then we have to try to do something, no matter what it's about, to the least possible extent. When it comes to corruption, how do you fight here? European laws? I highly doubt that the European laws passed by even the previous government, and this one just continues, can fight corruption, even on the contrary, that the literal application of some European laws is in our circumstances, that it gives the opposite effect. Corruption was raised this way only by a few levels, a few more steps, and, let's say, we have a situation where now the biggest corruption is happening where it's impossible to detect. We know that in all the big jobs where the big money's going to spin, the tenders are being set up so that we know in advance who's going to be the bidder, the buyer, the performer, etc. And there's the biggest corruption, and that's what they're called. European values. Gogol wrote in his own time - if you give a thief one guard, you'll get two thieves. So we need to get a little distance from these European laws and look for some comparative experiences somewhere else. China as a state is ready for that. China is a country that is successfully fighting corruption. Of course, I can't stop her there either. For example, for China, it is characteristic that they have always called their ministry of justice not the Ministry of Justice but the Ministry of Penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54633	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Member of the 97th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, fighting corruption is a very interesting topic and that is what Serbian citizens like to hear and listen to. What Serbian Radical Party MPs and MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party spoke of was the truth. It's just, there's been a lot of it in the past. If you think there's no corruption right now, or if you're going to take this legal proposal to some reasonable extent, that's cheating. I was kind of thinking that this regime has decided to fight corruption, but it certainly is not, although you are announcing a fair fight against corruption, the results may be even in the economic sphere incomparably better than they are in the fight against corruption. This Chapter 10 - strengthening integrity, integrity is completeness, indivisibility, security, willingness to work, upgrade, and, of course, it involves many morals. Is all those who need to decide this moral, that's the question. Here you said that the Agency would come up with a specific plan, suggest suggestions, so the condition that someone would have to do this plan in the fight against the prevention of corruption, that there are 30 employees, that has nothing to do with reality in practice. Very often, some public institutions that have a relatively small number of employees, incomparably smaller than what the law has committed to make plans, can do great harm to the citizens of Serbia. Here's an example, when it comes to solving housing problems. And there's a colleague who might say more. Addressing housing problems for refugees located in the area of Šapca, they were originally promised that they should participate with some amount in resolving their housing issue, they accepted, some zones were designated, now sending them ten kilometers away from where it was originally proposed. Their problem is not solved, and the price is the same as it was intended for the second zone of resolution of their housing issues. So, there's obviously corruption here. Whether it's just the local authorities of the town of Capca or some of the republican level involved, that's what you should check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54635	Thank you. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54636	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on the prevention of corruption has no fundamental changes, and the right to fight corruption does not exist. This draft law regulates the competence, organisation and work of the Agency, which may be given too much authority. We believe that it would be more effective to return certain powers to the Ministry and other competent authorities. There are, then, certain provisions governing the rules to prevent conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions. What you didn't predict with this proposal is so-called The running of a functional campaign that takes place through certain promotional activities of officials during the election campaigns such as hospital visits, factory openings and the like. The question arises how will the agency, or how, prevent the purchase of votes and mandates, because there is serious corruption? We think you should think about it and deal with it the right way. Article 99. The bill stipulates the Agency's obligation to adopt and publish a training programme and instruction for conducting training in the field of fighting corruption. We asked the amendment to delete this article, because we think it is absolutely unnecessary, because it has no legal or factual significance and represents only unnecessary spending of money. Corruption in Serbia is largely represented, and unfortunately it will continue to flourish if this problem is not approached in one serious way and if it is clearly and precisely defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54637	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54638	The law, Madam Minister, was condemned to the collapse of the moment it was brought against which it was the Serbian Radical Party. If that were the case, many examples of practice show. We have requested the erasure of this Article 2 because it determines the authority of the Agency in the survey of public officials and the application of their assets. It's all a big farce, for the simple reason that it's not a problem that 99.9% of them are going to report this property, but the question is what came and led many of them to do trade, by having their own influence by being connected with certain criminal and corruption structures, by economic crime, by judicial corruption, by accomplishing everything they couldn't do at all, by having a doctorate I don't know where and that I don't know what kind of jobs they started and that they work as other people who have certain economic activities, so we can understand -- private, farmer, farmer, one who processes the country, one who works hard, has a family factory, has some industry. But that it's all done by public officials, and the journey at the level of local self-government without bearing any responsibility for it, it's just amazing. You know what the biggest corruption in Serbia is? The fact that for the past four years alone, and the practice began with the theft of the mandate of the Serbian Radical Party in 2008, but I speak for a period of the past four years, 482 council members changed their party uniforms and some of them several times. Isn't that the most immoral and unsuspecting crime and corruption that can happen, now that you look here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia how many of them have done this by the MPs, from these tentacles who have come to the National Assembly without getting 5% in the vote of voters. And then we're messing with some formalities. Especially we who participate in this debate, as the only and right opposition to the advanced regime, tell citizens that we cannot go from assuming that all public officials in the beginning are criminalised. We simply don't let that be said in any context when it comes to any of our members. Here, have you seen for so many years our political action? We're strictest on this, and the biggest discipline is right in our ranks. But, not only do I boast about it, I have to encourage you personally to do everything that those authorities that need to deal with real corruption, which eats up our society, do their jobs and come out with these results and say, "Here, that's what we've done and we've achieved such results." Of course, you brought me these latest ones a few days ago, gossiping on Fridays and other colleagues, but, believe me, there's so much going on. So many tentacles were released everywhere, and especially the root of what happened after October 5th is still booming and blooming, I mean financially. They're officially out of state positions, but they've remained and there's evidence that both the D.A. and the police should react.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54639	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54640	When it is said that justice is applied selectively today, I can only say that I absolutely disagree about it. We have already discussed today during this debate that there are numerous examples where we can see that today is being treated in principle. If we should all remind ourselves together, you had cases in organised police actions to bring in more people in the same day than some members of the main board of opposition parties, parties of the former regime, but also some members of the main committees of parties that make up the parliamentary majority. What's better evidence and what's more clear evidence that there's no talking about anyone being extended or anyone, how they like to talk to those members of the former regimes that, behold, there's not even now in the O.R., that, imagine, is being persecuted. You know, when someone comes in and takes care of the law and strictly follows the law and says – let's just see what your business books are like, let's see what you've been spending money on, which is precise, campaign-defined, then jump someone like Boška Obradović and yell at all your mouths – this is persecution, this is harassment, this is dictatorship. And people who do this professionally, so people who are in charge of taking care of the institution they represent, to protect the law, just come and say -- let's see the papers and nothing more than that, that's more than enough. Mr. Risticevic spoke of it today, and he has spoken several times so far. So it's absolutely clear evidence of how some relate to this issue, and evidence at the same time that they're not stretching. Look, nobody said from state institutions -- we don't like someone political, so we accuse him of crime. In particular, both Dveri and Boška Obradovic are accused of crime by their people and their members, members of the presidency until yesterday. I think Radojicic's name is man. The man spoke publicly, sent open letters, where he says – I address the members of the Dvora and invite them to stand in the way together, on the tail to stop the crime that Bosko Obradovic is conducting. So, I think these are the problems we need to discuss if we're talking about a relationship to this issue. It is a great damage both to the Republic of Serbia and to the dignity of the National Assembly in this kind of behaviour of both Bosko Obradovic and Dveri, but he could not have learned anything better from Djilas and Jeremic, to be clear. No less damage than both Bosko Obradović and Dveri, and with him and Djilas and Jeremic, and with regard to relations with KIM and our people there and regarding relations with Tijana's law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Criminal Code that we are discussing today. That's big stuff. These are big things and things where the difference is made. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. On such large issues, there is a clear difference between us. We're not after grandma, we're not after uncles. We're just looking, we're just insisting that the law is applied equally to everything and we insist on it. We are in principle insisting that our people be protected, that there is no political fight there, that there is no glare and no quarrel, which is persistently trying Jeremic, Gilas, Obradovic here today. We insist that we set ourselves in principle to a relationship that concerns the protection of our children. Did you sign from the Dvora? Did you sign the DS petition and ask Tijana's law to enter the procedure? Where are you today? The moment we said - we stand behind it, we did not depart from that day to this day. We will vote for this bill tomorrow, and the citizens of Serbia who are following this session will be watching tomorrow's and may watch well whether they will enter this hall to vote both Milojic Kena and Aleksandra Jerkov and Marinika Tepic, whether a complete set of people from Dvora led by Bosko Obradovic, who have climbed on their heads with every story of family values and family politics. Let them ask the name of both Tadic and Jeremic and Gilas, where were they the day this assembly came forward? Where were they the day the vote was organised here? Did they vote to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, for Tijana's law in 2019, or will it not come, as in 2015, when we changed the Law on Police from the same case? Will they come or will they not come, as they were not here when we declared ourselves to be the parliamentary majority of Zoe's law? What are they tomorrow, once again, in front of Serbia, will be forever. You who have more information, supplement what I said or deny, I don't mind, and as far as we're concerned, this is not a question of any breaking and dilemma. Our attitude here has always been principled. The state is being guarded, the state is not being stolen, the children are being guarded and the children are defending themselves, and you who only care how much money you've accumulated, I mean the ones that aren't in the O.R., you watch what you're going to do and where you're going to go. It won't be long, next year Serbia puts you back in place and, I'm sure, as convincing as the Serbian people at KIM yesterday, 90% or 95. It's a measure for you that people can't look you in the eye for everything you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54641	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54642	The power of the hips not to return these from the tents to the assembly hall, and obviously your intention is to remain alone, because what you are doing cannot contribute to the democratic dialogue in this House. On what grounds did he speak before? Is he an authorised representative? It's not. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. Replica? Is his name mentioned? (Vladimir Orlic: The party is mentioned. ) On the replica there is a right Alexander Martinović when he sits there. Don't talk to me that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54643	Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54644	Here, I'm going on, and I'm warning you to take care of article 27 if you want us to finish this debate the way we started. If you don't, if you're going to call each other out right now to cause replicas, which is completely unnatural, which is simply no place actually, if that's the case, then we're going to pack up nicely, so we're going to go and you're going to end up alone today. If that suits you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54645	Thank you, colleague Radeta. You're right, I was wrong. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Thank you. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54646	So, as to who he can represent, we've explained it in a business way, but it seems that my colleagues didn't understand or follow me very well. I'm not going back to that part of the exhibition. I'm going to take this opportunity to ask Mrs. Kuburovic a question. If this law is good, and this article, here, we are now not treating the amendments, if the Agency is given the opportunity to react in breach of procedures by individual officials, and there was a warning of 84 in the last year, how is it possible if all this is so designed, that cases have been solved only in 11 such reports? Do you think this law, that the Agency, and that any of its bodies will, by public notice, also punish the judge for violations, prevent what is most important, and that is the discipline of public and private interest? When these laws are proposed and you say – we want to curb corruption in the ranks of public officials and all those who receive money from the budget dealing with public affairs, where the review that those who have failed to fulfil their obligations and those who, by abuse of their functions, have just said that, with the theft of the mandates of the council and MPs, said colleague Ruzica Nikolic, the functional corruption, that is the worst thing. You know, you promise someone -- if you vote for me, I'll hire you this one, if you vote for me, I'll do you a way. Well, who's gonna race more? You mention – soon you will see about local elections, trucks, helmets, packages, promises, money, voting cash in polling stations. You know, it's all done by individuals who thus destroy the entire democratic order, both constitutional and legal principles, and you don't understand it all, to prevent it from being rooted, you should first start by accepting a proposal to amend and supplement the electoral law, which the SRS proposes, so that they don't be in a position to first trade with themselves, to say -- here you go, I'm worth it in that place in southern Serbia so much, in the east and in the north so much, whoever wants me, I'm going to go to that camp and that camp. It's all what's the biggest problem, and if the law and whether the Agency's jurisdiction is going to be like this or who cares, when no one respects it anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54647	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54648	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be clear, Mr Martinovic and Orlic are different parliamentary groups, so that there should be no violations of the Rules of Procedure, I have different parliamentary groups, so I have the right to replication. I'm not gonna use that remaining time of authority. So, Mr. Orlic, you're not quite right. Mr. Radojić also pointed out on N1 television. During the session, I received an interesting letter from one lawyer, who sued N1 television on behalf of a certain Marinković and received an answer from N1 television, also informing you, i.e. the lawyer of N1 television, that my owner is not a medium within the meaning of the Public Information Act and the media, nor does the media service provider, broadcaster within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Media, which can be easily established by means of insight into relevant registers by the Agency for Business Registers and REM. So it is unequivocal that N1 television itself indicates that it is not registered, that it is not registered in the register and is therefore pirated. Mr. Martinovic and Orlic, Mr. Heineken, Mr. Radojicic, claimed he would vote, so that he would not vote because someone was beaten. I'm holding a April 2016 criminal report when Mr. Radojićičić Kena, called Heinken, beat up a 66-year-old man. So, he didn't beat up some councilman, a political opponent, more or less, beat up an ordinary 66-year-old citizen, accompanied by a report by a specialist doctor. So it's about a person who committed a crime of violence, especially over an old face. Probably likes it when violence is committed against weaker people. I will end up with Mr. Radojicic, whose confession I am giving because he was able to, Mr. Martinovic and Orlic, he was able to still rise above this group, the Gilas Group and the Dveri Party. He says - we have come into alliance with those responsible for the destruction of the state, huge crime and treason, with those who stole us in the 2012 elections. Isn't that the greatest proof that during the yellow ticks, therefore, this is the man who left the party, this Gilasov, who doesn't ask why, but since, therefore, isn't it the greatest proof that during the party of the former regime, it's like in the Greek tragedy? The Greek tragedy rested on bribery, and during the yellow ticks, Serbian tragedy rested on bribery and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54649	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. You've caused a replica. A fellow Orlic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54650	I thought of Zoran Radojićičić, therefore, not this Radojićičić from DS, Milojičić, I always mix their last names. So, as far as Zoran Radojićičić from Dvora is concerned, I thought of him, and that was an open letter from 9 March 2019. So, I'm saying, no one's accusing anyone of political assault, Dveri and Bosko Obradovica of crime, to what they themselves are, therefore, their members of the presidency, or members of the presidency until yesterday, that's what I'm talking about. So this is the one I was thinking of. And he says that literally criminal acts are being conducted there. He says more precisely, perhaps you, Mr. Risticevic, have some other sources, I have this open letter that they published last month. He says you're literally working on the level of black funds. It wouldn't be a problem for me at all if they were stealing their party and whether they were hiding money from each other, but the problem is that this man says -- they're budget money, money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, that's how they abuse it. If he says so, I believe he has direct knowledge, names both his last name and Bosko Obradovica and Jugoslav Kiprijanovica and a national MP who is a member of some secret societies, by name and by name says who has manipulated all of them with this money. I say -- that's a dangerous thing, and I say we can't let that happen, and it only deserves the strictest possible criticism, just as much as anything that these same people do, but be careful, with their heads and their beards, the same people do these days, and about Kosovo and Metohija. Here, they say they won't come to the National Assembly session when we discuss Kosovo and Metohija here. It's their thing. They've shown what's wrong with them and how important it is. And somehow, I don't think they could find an excuse in any other situation without, for one very logical and strong reason, having to explain their activities these days on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Risticevic, you certainly know that in yesterday's elections, I was talking about it here, the Serb people at a percentage of 95% in northern Kosovo and Metohija stood behind the Serbian list. And do you know what kind of brutal campaign Bosko Obradovic and his Dveri and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic conducted about these local elections? First, they said these elections should be boycotted. When it was quite obvious that in this way the Albanian factor would propose its people, participate in the elections and hope to take over four municipalities in which Serbs are the absolute majority in the north, it was not enough for them, so they decided to openly support their candidates. Listen to this. In a few days there will be elections in my charter. Since I am no longer a candidate and no one is normal from the north, no one is normal, so no one has run from the Serbs, and knowing that the team from the Serbian List will steal my vote, I will go out and vote for the young woman of Albania, Gonja Ceaushi. Quite accidentally, this was announced by a man who co-organised these Gilas protests in northern Kosovo Mitrovica. Absolutely by accident. Marko Jaksic, is that what you said, Mr. Risticevic? (Marian Risticevic: Yes. ) Absolutely by accident, the lady he will vote for, he says, is a DPK official, the party of Kadri Veselje. Last sentence. This is what they were doing, working together until yesterday. Today, when it is clear that the National Assembly will be discussing Kosovo and Metohija in less than seven days from today, they know that coming to this hall would have to make this behaviour clear to the people, that they would have to explain to them, or if they did, why, they say, they would have called on the Davery County Committee to boycott again yesterday, while cheering on the other hand and calling for a vote for the candidates of Kadri Veseni. These things will never be able to explain, just as they won't be able to explain their shameful behavior on the subject of Tian's law, or their shameful behavior when it comes to, as they say, stealing budget money. That's why I think they can only insist on avoiding the National Assembly. And, Mrs. Radeta, I apologize if this took a little longer. I thought it was important for Serbia to hear, understand and remember this well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54651	My colleague Rističević, on what basis are you answering? (Marian Risticevic: I am mentioned. Well, it is, but you agree on everything. I'm begging you, if we can continue. (Marian Risticevic: I give up. Thank you very much. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 101st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54652	What a suggestion, such an argument. This is really getting very unserious. I understand everyone from this place wants to send a message. That's what we do, and it's nothing to argue about. But you need to play for the belt to hit. It really doesn't make sense. As for the draft law on preventing corruption, we have discussed it in principle and proposed and, now, since this is about the end of the debate on this bill, once again we want to repeat Mrs. Kuburovic's proposal to withdraw this law from the procedure, that what was once called for fighting, and now to prevent corruption, nor when it was fought against corruption, nor will it now prevent corruption. We have in Serbia a Council on the fight against corruption and the Council's stand, it has shown itself at some point, especially when Verica Barac was headed by the Council, has really done his job and given some results. Still, as many years have passed, not all controversial privatisations, which she then drew attention to have been resolved. So this is a completely unnecessary parallel body, which is a fact-finding para-state body, which has never done anything since -- that Agency has never done anything, not one single move, not one single job that would really justify the existence of that Agency. We spoke today during the day, did this agency do anything about the corruption of Dinkic, Labus and others mentioned today? It's not. Did she react when we repeatedly repeated this recent corruption in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when Zorana and Scott damaged the state budget by 300m euros through Bechtela? It's not. What's this Agency reacting to? We've already said that. Did one of the officials report the property in time or was he too late? You are now predicting it as a crime, not now it has been before. We've already told you that. If you think such a thing should be a crime, then it should be part of the Criminal Code, not every law that has any crime. What this agency, when formed, was expected to become a little more serious about pre-election activities. They didn't do anything about it, except count posters because they had money from the state budget to pay field activists to count posters, so while they count down on one street, they come back to cry already beautiful. St. Peter cannot determine how much the party has done, glued, or ultimately mattered. Whether it's 15 or 17,000 -- it's completely irrelevant. When we reported to that agency that in this and that place, let's say in Batajnica, a woman sits and measures the people's pressure within the campaign, because she's like a nurse and she recommends - take that medicine, you get high pressure or take that medicine, because you have low pressure and another woman comes in here to measure the pressure and say, "What are you doing here?" She knows her from a Chinese boutique where that woman usually works as a saleswoman. We report it to the Agency because it continued. Do you think anyone reacted? It's not. Does the Agency react to packages carried from door to door to trick voters? He's not responding. Is he responding to the Bulgarian train? He's not responding. Is he reacting because doctors and drug dealers give people free vision glasses that buy at the market, so they actually spoil their eyesight? The Agency knows all that. So none of what that agency should do nor work, nor will it work. We therefore think that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, and that the Government, because the Council is in its jurisdiction, is engaged to make this Council work more seriously. Otherwise, I have three-and-a-half minutes from an authorised representative, so don't get too attached to your colleagues, Marinkovic. I take great care of the time I spend and the time I've been assigned to this poor Rules of Procedure. (President: Minute and 20 on that. I'll leave that for the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54653	No problem. It's okay, you got another minute and 20. Thank you. Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54654	A large number of Serbian citizens live hard and poor, and when they hear this story, they rejoice for a moment, count -- here is the regime that is determined to fight those who are in crime and corruption. But it's not like that. Article 110 says the obligation to adopt sublegal acts is within 90 days of the entry into force of this law. We have suggested that it be 60 days, but later when we read further and saw that this law will enter into force on September 1st, which will be more told by fellow Nemanja Sarovic, we have seen that this is pointless and many of you connect with the previous regime when this law is concerned. What does that connect you? They also passed the law in 2008 and began to apply in 2010. This time it means from the moment of entry into force to the application of this law, it will take about 15 months. There are no SNS MPs who did not criticise, who did not say what was happening in the previous regime, that is, some things are being revealed now, that it is so that you have a serious intention to be principled as you say, you would say that this law comes into force yesterday, not today. It's not possible retroactively, but you'd say it's really your right and your serious intention to deal with this. Madam Minister, you said there have been arrests of top local officials who are members of the SNS lately. He does, and you know when they get arrested? Well, when each other in these local environments argues and threatens to culminated in some more serious conflicts, you just intervene. Such cases as the municipality of Požega and many others in Serbia have you many more? You don't know, do you? Of course you do. You have to face it seriously before there's a reckoning between them. You said that a large number of prosecutors misused their role in opportunistic assets, the means of the opportunist. We don't know exactly what the number of prosecutors who were prosecuted for being abused. Indeed, if you want to fight this seriously, you must withdraw this law. Legally, your right is based on the Constitution and on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and your Government to propose such a bill, but it will not give any solution in practice, and Serbian citizens are eager to wait. They're still willing to live the way they live, but to see that there are no more abuses by those who in no way could abuse or that they should not abuse their position to enter crime or corruption. These are the most common persons with high and regular salaries unlike Serbian citizens, many of whom are not employed and have no income whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54655	Thank you very much, fellow Peric. The right to replica has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54656	The question – what is the difference and how has anyone been acting? First of all, I think we agree on one detail. If in the accompanying explanation that goes along with the law stands well, and it stands, that it is necessary to complete the procedure in order to select people who will be members of a particular council, because this procedure is going on and that it should therefore provide for a date of entry into force, so that this procedure does not endanger, but to come in a timely manner, I think it is a basis which cannot be called political. It's the basis that, I mean, everyone understands and accepts. The other thing is that there is a political question – what is the difference and when it is said what is the difference between us and the former regime, and it is precisely an investigation against party, local or higher-level officials that is not important, I think that the difference is seen well first. I can't remember whether there were any cases, I can't remember any of them now, that people who were party officials during the former regime were subject to interest by the authorities. I can't remember. There are as many examples as you want today and you can't be satisfied and at the level of some story – she said, she said, you're dealing with motives – why this, why not that. Let it go. Is it happening today? It happens. Has it happened before? I can't remember. You know where else we're different? I don't know any of our officials who are going to say something like this -- a good start on the relationship between Serbs and Albanians would be that all those who participated in the wars of the 1990s and criminals protecting them are not in power in both Belgrade and Pristina. This is what Kiprijanović tells you, Bosko Obradovic's right hand. They believe that all those who participated in Belgrade or on our side in the defence of the country in the 1990s are vermin, people who cannot possibly be in any way, near any opportunity to decide and protect criminals. We don't have this attitude. We've always respected anyone who defended the country. They're saying this today to justify their stay in some so-called. And they're changing the system of values. But if you ask where the differences are? Here's the difference. And you know where else? We're talking about it in this whole session, and nobody knows him between us that he ran to drill into his chest. How big a petition signer is on the subject of Tijana's law. They were doing it both Dverry and DS, and then they didn't find it appropriate to show up for five seconds in this room to say one word about the law. So he doesn't find it appropriate and he keeps his word. Today they change their minds and say that this is a disaster, a civilization step backwards, that this is a return to the Middle Ages. You know what they said on the subject of this law, so they don't find it appropriate, and watch what I tell you, they won't find it. To find himself in this room tomorrow and vote in favour of a bill that served him only as a beating to hit Alexander Vukic and the SNS with it. It's about principles. It's about principles. It's more clear than any other difference between us and them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54657	Thank you. I've got two reports. The right to replica has Sreto Peric. (Natasa Jovanovic: How, I answered before. On what basis do you? Well, you have no right. He's got Sreto Peric. Take it easy. (Natasa Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't choose how you're going to look. You could have called the Rules of Procedure, now that I said you couldn't, you couldn't get a word in. (The Faith of Radeta: It says in the Rules of Procedure that I can report to the Rules of Procedure. There's no problem. Here's the Faith Radeta in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54658	This has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure anymore. What you're doing, this is absolutely insolent. You may have any member you wish to lead under, you have injured from page one to page one and the member of this Rules of Procedure. So, 157 times we've told you that we are for as wide as possible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure as possible, because the Rules of Procedure are undemocratic, because it is bad and because it is good when the chairman has the will to allow a little longer and wider than the subject and so on. It's usually the principled attitude of the SRS. But we have also told you so many times what you are applying to the MPs of the government, you must also apply to the MPs of the opposition. There was no basis for Orlic to get a replica, absolutely none. It's not mentioned, it's not an authorised representative. On the same basis of the replica, Natasa Jovanovic and Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandra Belačić and anyone from our parliamentary group can receive the same replica. And you will really have to explain to us what your personal sympathy for Orlic is compared to Natasha Jovanovic or any SRS MP. So, please don't make us do what you absolutely don't want to do for half an hour before this debate is over. That's why we're seriously warning you that you have to make sure that we're serious people, serious MPs as you can see we've been doing all these days, we haven't played with the Rules of Procedure, we haven't played with any suggestions, we've talked very specifically about each proposal, we've made very concrete remarks where we thought we should make objections, and now you want to make comedy at the end of this. We do not want to participate in your chapras, and this is the last warning, and on you, it is a deal, with Martinovic, whether you will continue on your own or we will end this debate as we have started it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54659	Thank you and of course there's absolutely no desire for anyone to continue alone. I just don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure this time because Mr. Martinovic didn't even insert the card. So I don't have it on the record as present, as you do when you get here before we start the session, you sit in the hall, but don't insert the card, and of course, we can't say that your MPs are here and at a certain number. So, in accordance with that procedure, in any case, I think I did not make a mistake, and I will make sure that we continue the debate in that tone she was in. You know I respect and appreciate your discussions and what you do and commitment when it comes to working in parliament. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you are Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54660	Member 107, Mr. Marinkovic. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I think it is not correct to speak language in the National Assembly – we will leave if you do not agree to behave as we wish. I think that all those who are watching the direct television broadcast of the National Assembly session, not only today, but all these days, can notice that whoever is chairing the National Assembly session, your MPs, therefore the MPs of the SRS, are tolerated and we have nothing against it, we have not said anything, and that they speak three, four minutes, and the subject of the agenda, and of what is not the subject of the agenda, and of the Srebrenica, and of the lawyers from Panchev, and of the judges. So, it's all good. We didn't say a word. But now that you're blackmailing us, you're going out? So get out. I tell you now, come out, I don't mind. (President: Col. Martinovic, no need. We had a good discussion, and in that tone, we'll continue. Come out, that tent is empty there, stand under that tent, and it's over, but don't blackmail us. Can't a party that has 5% or less to blackmail a party with a 105% mandate. I'm not going under the tent. Some of you have been in a coalition with teams who have been under tents and received money from them, but don't let me get into it now. So, Mrs. Radeta, if you are sitting in the National Assembly, sit down, if you do not sit down, come out. And you, Mr. Marinkovic, since we are now going to hold a session of "lege artis", I ask you, strictly respect the time, so whoever answers the word, the MP from the SRS, the SNS, is no longer three, four, five minutes, etc. You strictly measure the time by the Rules of Procedure, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54661	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I invite both you and all the MPs who are in the O.R., the MPs of the SRS to continue in that tone we've been working in since this morning. We have much bigger problems than what some MP once did and went a little further than the subject. So we have other political problems where we need a minimum consensus. So I ask you and the MPs of the SRS to stay on that path. There's some things we need unity about, there's no need for anyone to get out of this room. We'll keep working and finish what we like. Thanks again. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." (Verica Radeta: Natasa Jovanovic first reported. ) Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54662	I don't know what's wrong with you, Mr. Marinkovic, but it's not easy for you to chair the assembly, and the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling party orders you and to tell you how you should chair the session. You will chair the way your conscience and your Rules of Procedure tell you to. If you break the Rules of Procedure we will report to you, the Assembly will declare it, it is a democratic procedure. First of all, we were not invited by Martinovic, and neither you nor anyone from the SNS to come to the National Assembly Hall, but the people wanted 22% of the SRS MPs to sit in these assembly benches. If we have justified this trust and have gained faith even greater, it shows the quality of our work and, above all, that for days, months now, we have been treating the most important issues for the citizens of Serbia for three years, we point out very well, there is Mrs Minister, who I believe can confirm, as well as other ministers in the government, on all the failures in the legal proposed texts. We write industriously and worth very professionally reasoned amendments. I don't know what of all these amendments, Mr. Martinovic has disturbed you where we're looking for a life sentence for everyone in Serbia who says there's a genocide in Srebrenica? Wasn't it a debate that was also a reminder to you after all that those of you who, therefore, brought us into congregation halls, those you brought together with Scott, were just doing about the head of this state and wanted in such a way to destroy all the democratic fluids, all that the people didn't want, they wanted. But you're pushing, after all, with them if you talk to the representatives of the real opposition party, a party that, don't forget, has a very large role in Serbia's political life back in 30 years. You're a younger colleague of Marinkovic's, I won't bid as much, but anyone who knows about anything he's seen and anyone who's not fully interested in political life knows that the SRS, a party with great responsibility to the state and its people. Therefore, we will work for the benefit of Serbian citizens, we will defend Serbia and Serbia, we will defend everything that is the integrity of Serbian radicals. So don't let some language that doesn't like anyone, and first of all, someone who's an academic citizen of this country talk, because we have our dignity, we have people who support SRS policy, and no one here can bid with any percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54663	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54664	The percentages will be shown in the elections, we are not people, we are not streets, we are not noisers, we are not anything, we are people who are responsible for our country and for our people and so we will fight for the future of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54665	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Have your understanding, sometimes something is said in the heat of political struggle, which is not appropriate, so we can continue anyway, if you agree, with the session and that Mr. Sreto Peric... You want to do it? You want to do it by the book? The Faith of Radeta: Of course. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54666	On the basis of Article 27(1), I draw your attention to Mr Marinkovic, that you cannot be obedient to any MP in this room. Every MP has the right to offer you whatever you want, but whether or not this proposal is accepted must be voted on, and not to let the MP say, well, now you will, and you have done so. First, he said that you did not work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which we do not accept, we think that the Rules of Procedure is so bad that it is necessary to interpret it a little bit more widely, but we repeat that it must apply to all MPs. Indeed, it doesn't make sense, that when someone has no argument or comes forward just to say something, then SRS MPs are sent there under some tents. It's so offensive that we really can't accept it. We're not blackmailing anyone here, we're not here for SNS MPs, we're here because we want to participate in the work, but we don't want anyone living above us, and we're not going to let that happen anyway. Whether someone takes it as blackmail or not, it's absolutely his right and his thing. So, once again, we have not come out of the regular work of the People's Parliament for days, and for fellow MPs from the ruling majority to try, or to try, and for days we haven't come out of the regular work of the MP, but today, all of the reasons we don't know why the authorities are trying to provoke us, to burn us, to insult us, to mention some I don't know 5, 4, how many 3%. We can have 1%, but we're Serbian radicals, which we'll never sell for a percentage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54667	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) ) Sreto Perić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54668	Mr. Orlic, you pointed out the difference between you and the former regime. Remember, part of the former regime is your coalition partner and we have nothing against it. You pointed out where I didn't say you were the same. There are some differences. When I was talking about similarity, and even the same, I was thinking first of all about the bill on fighting corruption. It's the only way I see it, and I've made arguments about when the law will come into force and when it will start to apply, you've explained to me that I need to make a choice, so it takes some time. Even so, that time can and must be shortened, there is no dilemma. What you have quoted me as saying in the daily press, we are proud and personally thinking today, that every citizen of Serbia should defend his country in a way and to the extent possible, and that it is organized and envisaged. It's a little bit of a problem with SNS that one man wants only some percentages first of all. If I'm not mistaken, there's been an emergency election in the White Palace. The chairman of Boris Tadic's municipal board won the first election, regular in 2016, seems to me the largest number of votes. SNS called him a thief and a criminal. In order to re-election, it would become a SNS candidate and be elected president of the municipality. Well, it's much more important to fight crime and corruption than to fight that percentage. As far as we have, we always respect what the citizens of Serbia have shown. You in your regime, now in your party, have a lot of those who should have been in jail long ago, because they deserved it by 2012. However, in order to preserve freedom, to preserve their capital, they quickly join the SNS. I don't know how you look...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54669	Ambassador, you asked for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54671	You've gone way too far. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54672	Since I see that we've actually understood each other about law enforcement, I'm guessing that's not a subject, and it wasn't a topic if we're to be honest. He knows the very well-proposed amendment of what it is and how it is, why it is, it writes well. I can see that he understood that too, but he just wants the amendment promoter to talk about who he is, who he is, and what he's principled about. What was who doing until 2012 and who was he with by 2012? I, here, can remember again, I've been reminded several times. Dragan Gilas was already at that time active on the subject of the fearsome power in the city of Belgrade in the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas was co-workers of the party, the amendment promoter, happy places in the supervisory committees, was that so, and to the boards of directors, was that so? At the time, nothing bothered anyone there, all of it was absolutely fine and acceptable. Today he'd like to take some high moral position and criticize it, but I just don't know who, do I? Because if he wants himself, he's got a lot of rights. You know why? You know that for sure, the Bastac that demollates the hooligans around downtown Belgrade, which is where they break those fences on the site, which is trying in every possible and impossible way to prevent the development of this city, which we don't think about very nicely, was the president of a city municipality, Belgrade, the Old Town Municipality. Guess who he's in the coalition with three times? Is he with your client? Yes, it is. Is that principled? Last week, you were talking here, and you were having such a nice talk about what a pest it is, what a terrible thing it is for the city of Belgrade. Then why do you support him? Why are you taking part in the municipal government? Is that principled? Or might it be a greater principle and a better example of principle when municipal leadership is also supported in New Belgrade, Alexander Sapic? Are you part of the coalition there? Yes, it is. Then what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54673	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54674	Last sentence. As far as we're concerned, we want to discuss this properly, and it's not our fault that some on the other hand are challenging the replica, so they regret it bitterly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54675	Thanks for the explanation. MPs, I have scheduled a session for Wednesday, which will have the Capital Act, as a predominant topic, and I ask you to discuss these topics concerning the city of Belgrade during that session. Now let's go back to... (Verica Radeta: It applies not to the city of Belgrade, but to the subject of insolence. I can't evaluate your allegations that aren't officially made. I only understood that in the response of Mr. Orlic there was a question of the city-level coalition. Thank you. On Article 114, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54676	Let's finally get back to the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, first of all, I would ask you to answer the question I asked in the previous discussion about my amendment to article 23 and that professional integrity test. That test is prescribed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, which is you, and I think it reminds me of the moral-political resemblance we had in that communist period in the SFRY. I really think you guys need to know what that test will look like, if you're the legislator of this law and you have to tell us something more concrete about it. As far as amendments to Article 114 are concerned, my proposal is that, instead of what you suggest, the law enters into force on the seventh day from the day of publication and is applied from 1 September 2020, except for a few members of the law whose application will begin immediately. My proposal is that the full law is in accordance with the Constitution, so within seven days of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". It's not good that the fact of the law is delayed, and I would only ask your associates to be a little quieter and listen to what I'm saying and not to disturb you. You are a witness that in the previous period we have had countless times on the agenda the laws that we have only further delayed the application of the law which was already delayed when the basic law was passed and this is causing serious costs and it is simply pointless. What does it mean – the law is in force, but it will not be applied? So what's the strength if it's not applied? Another principled thing why shouldn't it be done... (President: Time. If I could just finish the sentence. (President: So time means nothing.) Here you go. Only if it means so much to you, here, I'm giving up on the end of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54677	It means a lot to me. Thank you for understanding me. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54678	Thank you. If we weren't privileged speeches, and that I appeared almost after every amendment you just explained, and only now I get the word, so we're not privileged here. I think I've answered your questions. It certainly isn't true that I will be the one to know what the test will look like. The Minister of Justice does not determine the test, but adopts a rule on how to conduct a public competition, and what a test will look like will know the commission that draws it up. And it's that we're not writing a law for ourselves just saying the date when it starts to apply, because I believe neither I nor this Assembly will be in this assembly in September next year, so that's exactly what the proposing's seriousness is about when it comes to this law. I've had the chance to hear all your remarks and look back at the previous amendments, and it seems to me that the biggest criticism is why we functioners should report property and whether we're late for reporting property or not and whether it's a crime. If each of us is safe and responsibly performing our function, I believe that it is no problem for us to come into office within a time limit that we all know very well when we agree to be appointed or elected, so we know what is our obligation to report property. Why is it important to the Agency, why does it matter to have wider powers than it does today? It's just that it wouldn't happen to someone while they're in public office, that someone while the mayor is increasing his assets by 500m euros without any explanation, no consequence of how it was done. Once again, I point out that the law must have a delayed application. This has been a practice lately for the Justice Department just to prepare the possibility of a good law enforcement. If you have followed the work and the laws we have proposed over the past two years, almost every law has been delayed for that reason so that judges and prosecutors, if they are concerned, may undergo appropriate training. It is only because I believe that we can have good results, as was the Law on the jurisdiction of the state authority in combating organised crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54679	Thank you. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54680	Here, I'll read it, Mrs. Kuburovic, just a member of the law that regulates it. So you're saying the minister in charge of the justice department, but here's what the law says. Only professional training, knowledge and skills set out in the programme of tests brought by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary are assessed on the test. So the test is prescribed by the minister in charge of justice affairs. Let's see what that test looks like, a test assessing professional integrity. If that group of people say – it does not pass, because only two grades have been passed and has not passed, then that man cannot come as a proposal to the National Assembly. That's why I said it was humiliating for the National Assembly, because the candidates were previously triaged and estimated their professional integrity, as you say, which may be just a slightly nicer and more modern term for moral-political similarity, and then the Assembly chooses on the basis of a proposal that someone has already set. He can only raise his hand or he can't raise his hand. If anyone else was doing it, that's fine, but then let them do the whole job. The National Assembly cannot place its signature and give legitimacy to a choice that is essentially without influence and the most important thing, it does not comply with the principle of dividing the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial. Three branches of government exist in accordance with the Constitution, and you invent the fourth and say it's independent. So that's how you disrupt the constitutional order. Ask your colleague not to talk while the MPs discuss it. I'm speaking to you as a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54681	You're about to hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54682	Please tell us more about the test and what is the way professional integrity will be assessed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54683	Thank you. Just let the Rules of Procedure run the session. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54684	Mrs. Gojkovic, Article 108(1) has been broken. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have just had the opportunity to hear from certain MPs of the ruling majority how this should be conducted by the session and how they imagine a session should be held, but they have not seen that next to them is a card inserted into the system of a non-representative MP. Also, here you have six more cards in the absent deputies' system and a few more, so we'd just like to ask if someone can come in from the service and pick up those cards before we continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54685	Thank you. Thank you for your warning. It's a matter of otherwise service that has to control it in the O.R. Thank you for distracting me. Please extract all cards from the system from MPs who are not currently in the room. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. There's still a minute left. Do you want to discuss this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54686	We have suggested that both of these members be deleted to draw attention to the fact that what you're proposing has nothing to do with reality or what you write in the proposal. We are here from the Ministry, i.e. the Government's argument that this bill should be passed by emergency procedure and that this is necessary to prevent damage from taking place since 2016, because it is said that this law is in line with the Criminal Code of 2016 and to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences by the work of the state authorities. We have only written these amendments to provoke someone to tell us what damage occurs by the work of the state authorities and if there really is some damage, what damage has been suffered since 2016? Is it possible that from 2016 to 2019, until this law was not in conformity with the Criminal Code, there was no harm, and for the damage to come here from today, that we did not, by emergency procedure, discuss this bill? So, these amendments are purely principled in order to draw attention to you from the government that you have to give us more serious suggestions, but to draw attention to the public too, that when it comes to hearing that we have a law on the agenda of confiscation of property arising from the crime, and now someone would think, here, something serious is about to happen. Nothing will happen that has not already happened and no changes in the application of this law or the Criminal Code will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54687	Thank you. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, when it comes to the law relating to the execution of criminal sanctions, I would like to address the Minister for the Article 46(1) of that law. This law stipulates that a convicted person is entitled to parole from the maintenance of fines after two-thirds of the sentence imposed. If so, it can be reasonably expected that good rule will be maintained in the course of the maintenance of the sentence and especially that no new crime will be committed until the time has elapsed. Mrs. Kuburovic, here are a few questions. Given my knowledge and personal insight into part of the issue of applying the parole institute, I have the knowledge that human rights are being violated especially in relation to convicted persons. My question is, Mrs. Kuburovic, how many people were sentenced in 2018 to be able to use parole after two-thirds of the sentence was handed down? The second question is, how many convicted persons have applied for parole? Question three, how many convicted persons got parole? The fourth question, how many thirds of the suspended sentence has been imposed, for a much longer period than two-thirds of the suspended sentence, which is the average in months of the pardoned sentence under the quote? Is it true that the condemnation assessment of convicts is given by the administration of a detention facility?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54689	You've wasted your time. I wouldn't interrupt. I thank you, Ambassador. Remember these questions for Thursday at 10.00 p.m., if you are authorized by your parliamentary group. We are now talking about amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54690	As for this proposed member, Mrs Kuburović, it is incomprehensible for us to first describe something like this in the text of the law, because in the course of the competition for a certain public function, it is enough to write which degree of professional training is the need, and we have seen the law on the capital is here that you are now citing all these masters and other qualifications by the Bologna way of studying the number of points. It's amazing that the director of the Department of Criminal Penalty can no longer be anyone else who doesn't have a law school. Is that a condition for opening a chapter, prescribed by some other law? Now, please explain to us whether the more qualified person is, here is a living and healthy colleague, Jojic, who also played a role in the police structures of the government back then, so he was the minister of federal justice and co-worker of Radeta, who was deputy minister, is the police general, if he wanted to, compete, unworthy of that title, or that function with such a calling and someone else can? Imagine, here in this profession you have qualified this future person, and in the election of judges and in the selection of holders of other judicial functions, the prosecutors have left out on purpose two-and-a-half years of average law school. How could it be that up to two years ago, when the judge and the prosecutor were elected, we have as much as who and where he studied, and now that average is gone, and there is no length of study. And with this where it's obvious that it's unnecessary to do things like this, you force this future warden to meet these conditions. And again, I say, that's what you started in the Serbian government...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54691	Just a moment to see why I don't have time on the screen. The word is made by Minister Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54692	The absolute average for the study is not introduced as a criterion for the election, I am talking about the director of the administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, not the director of the office, and when we mention the selection procedure of judges and deputy public prosecutors discussed by the Assembly, based on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the procedure for proposing candidates and the selection of candidates takes place under the Rules on the establishment of expertise, training, the dignity of candidates, which provides that the candidates are all subject to the text. The data that the promoter has been most likely to provide to you are just the evaluations from the test, and nowhere in the Judges' Law since 2010 the average from the study is the criterion on which to determine whether or not someone will be elected as a judge. If he has changed the practice of the High Court Council, I can speak only from the moment I'm a member, I don't know what practice was before, but certainly the average from the study is not a mandatory element based on which a candidate is proposed for a judge or on whom a candidate for a deputy prosecutor is proposed, but I believe you can refer the initiative to the High Council of Justice and get the information you need when voting whether or not you will be supported by a candidate. These are publicly available data, so I believe there's no reason to refuse to provide you with that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54693	Thank you. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54694	It was strange for us, Mrs Kuburovic, because this practice existed in the previous ministry, that is, when your predecessor came to the constitution of this National Assembly for the first time, and it was even so obvious that some candidates, although you say, are also calling on you and Mr Jovicic, who most often represents the High Council of the judiciary here, that candidates with the highest rating passed the test that qualified to be elected here. That's not appropriate. You know, we had a situation here, and now I'm sorry that you didn't get to know it, that I didn't get those stenographic notes, that we had candidates who had studied for eight to 11 years, whose average at regular law school studies in various Serbian cities was between 6.5 and 8.4, and that in that first election, they were just elected. We're talking about it, and it was really symptomatic of us, which is why it's gone, and of course if we're interested in some specific cases or we argue with someone during the election, we'll also get these details.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54695	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that the position of the fourth member of the 41st member be deleted, which determines that the decision of the judges to execute will make sure that a change in the way in which the punishment can be carried out can be achieved. So this is another case where things are regulated that absolutely don't need to be regulated, because what else is it going to be about? So, some things are understood. It reminds me of one situation when we passed a smoking ban law here in the previous term, when it stood in the bill -- if windows and doors are part of the walls. So what else is it going to be? So, some things are understood and it seems to me that once again in translation, maybe, when you get those views of the Venice Commission, you translate it into Serbian, then you lose some meaning, and you're pushing it into the laws by automatism. And that Legislative Committee used to work much better and didn't miss these things. Then you say in the next position - before making a decision from Article 5 of this Member of the Judges to execute will take care of the technical possibilities of the execution of the sentence. The judge will take care of the technical possibilities for the execution of the sentence. What? Is there a sufficient number of free cells? Or does he have enough free-tips? It's absurd. The judge either takes care of the law, or he takes care of the purpose of punishment, or he will take care of technical possibilities. It is absurd to determine by law and oblige the judge to take care of technical possibilities for the execution of penalties. I think it is another position to be deleted, as well as the next position, which says that the judge's decision to execute the request can be filed by the applicant and the public prosecutor - within three days of the decision being taken. And why in three days and what are the reasons for such a haste? Why is it not an eight-day period, which is the usual legal term, or 15-day deadline, such as the deadline for appeal? I worked in the judiciary and I don't think there's really any reason for a three-day period, not for a prosecutor, but also for an applicant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54697	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a minister of justice, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54698	When executing a prison sentence, you must have technical conditions, i.e. a convicted person must have a permanent or temporary place of residence or residence. Unfortunately, situations are such that many convicted persons do not have such a place, so you do not have the technical ability to execute that punishment to someone who does not have an apartment or residence. The deadlines are short because throughout the Code of Criminal Penalty, if you have a delay in the execution of criminal sanctions, the deadlines are also scheduled for three days, in which the judge has to decide, and therefore in this situation that is proposed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54699	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54700	Once again, as well as possible. If you were thinking about whether convicted persons have a place of residence, whether they have a place of residence, it cannot be considered technical possibilities, that is a legal condition in order to punish criminal sanctions in a certain way. The technical conditions, i.e. technical possibilities, cannot be talked about. It is absolutely unsuitable, in my opinion, the term, which was used in the law, is imprecise, because it cannot be expected from the judge, here, will be agreed by Mr Nedo Jovanovic of the Socialist Party of Serbia as a lawyer who knows it from practice, that my remark is absolutely in place. Another thing I pointed to, and that's a three-day deadline. You, Mrs. Kuburovic, know that other laws prescribe short deadlines. But in Serbia, it is generally not a problem as many claim that we have bad laws, we have good laws, but the laws are either not applied or, more often, are applied selectively. The problem is that these laws that we are discussing in the National Assembly today also enable them to act selectively in the future. You said a little bit and said that the biggest problem is that now it's a crime, or what was a crime, not reporting property, is that it's now a felony, and that there's a penalty between six months and five years in prison. Look out, it's punishment for a homicide out of trouble. It's a punishment for chastity. When a criminal offence is brought and prescribed, when criminal sanctions are imposed, social hazards are taken into account and a minimum and maximum penalty is based on it. If it's too wide-ranging, if that's exactly the basis for corruption, and that's where the possibility is left to act differently tomorrow and to say - well, this one's mine, he's going to get parole, well, the other one isn't, we're going to talk to him for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54701	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54702	I don't know if you, Mrs Kuburovic, have seen this amendment and these two consecutive amendments and I find it rather unclear why you didn't accept them, at least one of these two amendments? You here have absolute cohesion between the 101st and the new 102s. This has indeed been an amendment with the intention of making this correction here. In Article 101, paragraph 1 stands - the convicted is employed by the Bureau or outside the Office, as decided by the Head of the Office on a proposal from the expert team. In Article 102a, you say - a judge for execution may, on a proposal from the Head of the Office, approve that a convicted person who is classified in a semi-open or open office performs jobs at work, etc. It must be here either in Article 101 that the convicted is employed in the Bureau or outside the proposal of the manager, with the opinion of the expert team or in Article 102a, that the manager, with the opinion of the expert team, is to be employed. Just one of these two amendments you have to accept. I don't know, maybe your services haven't taken a good look at it yet. It's not too late to do that. You're going to be left with really vagueness and conflict and you're going to have a problem applying this law. Don't allow it just because the amendment comes from the opposition MPs, not to accept it, in order for us to have to discuss the amendments and additions of this law here for a little while longer. So, the amendment does not in any way affect the essence of this bill, nor any of your intentions and your aim to satisfy this opening of Chapter 23, in any way we are not touching, although we are, of course, against opening the Chapter and any further discussions with the EU, but please take another look at and accept either the amendment of Alexander Seselj or mine, it is important that these two members not be in collegiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54703	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54704	Article 6 provides for the addition of a new Article 102a. Article 102a says – a person sentenced to jail for up to six months can be deployed to work that was done prior to the entry into force of the prison sentence, provided that the criminal offence for which he was convicted is not related to these affairs. In Article 102, there are several views and you here suggest that the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions be the one who makes the final decision whether a person sentenced to prison, of course, in this case for more than six months, can work in semi-open or completely free jobs. The judge for the execution of criminal sanctions took his way in 2011 and it cannot be said that this institute did not give certain results in the execution of criminal sanctions, but it is logical that the prisoner knows better the head of the office or prison than the judge can do for the execution of criminal sanctions with the collection of data by expert teams and anyone else. The Head of the Bureau is, like, 24 hours on duty, he or his associates, so that he has all and complete information about the behavior and everything else related to the prisoners, so that his decision can be fully relevant and in this direction needs to be addressed to this problem, i.e. to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54705	Thank you, colleague Perich. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54706	With this amendment, I suggest that the period of stay of the prisoners in solitary stay be limited to a maximum of 60 days. We believe that this solution is rational for the reason that those persons who are mentally healthy, reasonable and stable are referred to in prison, while those who do not refer to treatment in psychiatric institutions. Of course, those who are evaluated as mentally healthy can conflict with each other or with the guards, which would require isolation in solitary women, but a period of 60 days is quite enough to regulate any problem of this type. If prisoners are kept in singles for more than 60 days or in some cases even decades, it is possible to endanger their rights, and all prisoners should have the same rights as those relating to food and drink consumed in detention, rest, recreation, visitation rights and the right to interact with other prisoners. In this regard, we have one paradox, which is that Milorad Ulemek Legia, who is therefore convicted of organising the murder of the prime minister and is not a direct perpetrator of that murder, has been in solitary confinement for over a decade, while, on the other hand, in the media, we can read that a certain person named Tanya Mahmoud, a woman who is a methadone addict, who killed an eight-month-old baby and kept her on the terrace in a bag, was in a cell with another person who killed her mother and grandmother at sleep, so we're interested in what criteria are these women assessed as socialised enough to share a cell, even though after they tried to kill each other, while Milorad Ulemek Legion did not? We have the impression that this is about rematch and the political dimension of his verdict and regulation of the conditions of his stay in prison, and we believe that this is also the message that the life of the murdered Zoran Djindjic is worth more than the life of the murdered child or the murdered women, which should not be the case. All victims are worth the same, whether they are children or people we don't know or Zoran Djindjic, whose politics some of us agree with, and some of us don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54707	Thank you, colleague Belacic. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54708	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Article 9 provides for the assignment of a new member of 184a) after Article 184 of the applicable Criminal Penal Code, which concerns the early release of a convicted person and on the basis of the judge's decision to execute. The executing judge may, upon a proposal from the Head of the Institute, fire the sentenced from a prison sentence of no more than 12 months until the expiry of the sentence, if the sentenced has endured one half of the prison sentence due to a serious illness, severe disability or age if further execution of the sentence would constitute inhumane treatment. The position of the 6th member shall allow the judge to revoke decisions which have been granted early release if the conditions subsequently established have not existed or ceased to exist on grounds of early release. We believe that an early dismissal decision is allowed if it is subsequently found that there were no or, as you state here, reasons for the dismissal. Our attitude is based on two very serious reasons. First, if so, legal uncertainty would be created for convicted persons and secondly, the execution judge has the possibility to hire an expert team in the Supreme Court itself, as well as a proposal for a professional team of institutions, so if they make a mistake, the convicted person must not suffer, but if they stop having reasons for it, the health condition of the convicted is rapidly improved, then something else is quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54709	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word is Mr. Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54710	The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was fully in line not only with the needs and conditions of the state of Serbia, but was, as you say, in line with EU regulations and views. Now, in the period when you want to open as many chapters as possible, so Chapter 23, which applies to the legal system, you have then approached certain changes that have actually made this law less quality in the part where you propose changes. This member of the 258s regulates the calling of staff at the Administration. We have suggested that the position of the 6th member, which reads - in order for the job to be classified as special titles, it is necessary that the special regulation is established as a job where the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration or that it fulfils at least one of the following three conditions. We believe that a much more comprehensive and better solution in this law would be that -- a special regulation established as a job where an insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration, that means that it should be deleted, but counterpart Aleksandra Belačić said a little earlier that on one side conditions for convicts or persons who are present at the maintenance of the prison in KPZ are mending, but for some persons from going to prison without repairing themselves, they are worse every day and as two drastic examples that we repeatedly cite are the relationship to Zvezdan Jovanovic and Milorad Ulemek Legija. Madam Minister, you should check this out. In many cases you say that something is not in the power of the minister, but when we have both internal and other types of control, then we could solve many practical problems and something should not be approached by the adoption of new legislation, as well as the previous law, which has been spoken of here. Only if all state authorities were to do their job, securely and responsibly, would we not have to do it every little bit or just after the adoption and entry into force of a certain law to change it again at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54711	Thank you, colleague Perich. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54712	Mrs. Kuburović, you wrote in the bill that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions was found on the agenda for fulfilling certain conditions you have in relation to the opening of Chapter 23, but it seems that you were doing it in a hurry and in fact a bad translation of the Law, because there is no other explanation for some completely illogical failures that I do not believe would have happened if you had written this yourself or that someone had translated it well for you. We talked about several such cases where we tried to distract you through the amendments to make it right in time, so we wouldn't be dealing with this law again anytime soon. You have, for example, foreseen when it comes to the appeal procedure for the execution of the sentence in the rooms where the convicted person resides, you have set a time limit in which it can be lodged, or it must be lodged, and that is a three-day period, but, say, you have not left a time-limit in which to decide on the appeal, so if it is so urgent, and if it counts on the days, then it must have been logical and to determine, here, we have suggested, for example, 48 hours, that you also set a short time to decide. But this particular amendment, which we are now talking about, concerns a special expert examination of the performance of the job in the security service. And you wrote here that employees of security services who have, you say, high school prescribed by law, etc. We suggested that you write - high school. Because when we read this bill and we saw that someone had to have a high school, we thought as Minister Sarcevic, that he had to have a school, that he had a school building, because you didn't write that he had to have a high school. We don't understand what your problem is to accept such a single, here, I would say, technical amendment. It's not good, it's not good that you reject our amendments. Believe and see for yourself in the debate with us, and even when it comes to the specific amendments that we have proposed to you, it took at least half of these amendments to accept that your laws would be a little less bad than what you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54713	Thank you, colleague Radeta. This amendment has been accepted, once again. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54714	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, thank you for allowing me to give an explanation in the previous amendments that I spoke of when you chaired. I don't understand why Minister Kuburovic reacted when I said if there were human rights violations in prisons in Serbia. Here, I didn't get any answers, the minister kept quiet. I asked - how many convicts were there in 2018 that acquired the right to use parole? Two-thirds. I asked six, seven questions, but unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. That doesn't seem to interest the minister. This is what I wanted to set up in good faith. So DOS's regime kept a man in prison unfounded, and his application stood for 17 months in the drawer of one of the yellow judges. So I referred to questions concerning serious matters when it comes to convicted persons. When it comes to the previous Law on Preventing Corruption, the possibility of delaying application is given, unusually, and I see no reason. Mr. Martinovic, as a professor, as a doctor of law, knows what the legions are. I don't think this fits into that basic principle. The rule to postpone the application of this law only in September 2020. I think this is unusual. For you, Mrs. Kuburovic, when will you decide on my parliamentary question when I asked him when you will set up an elevator in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, which is placed in the pigeon shop, so disabled and sick persons as parties who come to the prosecution go on crutches and with the help of the citizens? I had a chance to carry one from the ground floor to the pigeon shop. So please, when the Wolf built the tunnels for miles, well, I expect you to build this elevator.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54715	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has a minister of justice, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54716	Thank you. As for the rights of convicted persons in Serbian prisons, I am proud to find there is absolutely no violation of human rights. These were also found by international organisations that visited prisons and the Committee on Tortrum and inhumane treatment of convicted and detained persons, the Assembly Committee, the Protector of Citizens, so as to protect the rights of convicts, I think that they are at the highest level and absolutely have no complaints sent by those who say so. As far as your question is concerned, and as far as the number of paroles are concerned, we will certainly pass through parliamentary questions to provide you with accurate and accurate data, but the average on an annual basis of the total number of convicted persons who endure the sentence is that judges in 10% approve parole. Just a little correction, I believe you're reading another law where application is delayed. This law shall enter into force from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. So it was probably some kind of a failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54717	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. (Petar Jojic: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Jojic. The Minister replied precisely. I listened carefully. I'm not a lawyer, but let me, here, she spoke to you as a percentage. (Petar Jojic: She spoke of another law. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment with correction was filed by the peoples by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54718	I want a word, Mr. Marinkovic, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to give my colleague Peter Jojic the right to reply, because the minister misread his presentation, absolutely. There is no reason, here we are ending this debate and there is no reason to violate these fundamental parliamentary rights now. Therefore, in accordance with Article 14, it says - a special expert examination for the performance of security services, which until the entry into force of this law, will end at the latest by the start of the application of this law to the regulations applicable at the time of the application. I have submitted an amendment to that article. I think it should stand there – up to the date established by the solution, because every employee who is to pass the expert exam is given a solution and in that solution stands until when it is necessary to pass the expert exam. There is no single legal reason to make a difference with those who have passed that professional exam so far and to give some very long deadlines to those who need to take it now. And the question is, when will this law begin? You've set one deadline. There may be new delays in the meantime, and it may be in a few years. Another thing, to point out once again how bad these bill proposals are, you know, there's something called an explanation of individual solutions, Mrs. Kuburovic, if you follow me. And look at what it says as an explanation for the solution in Article 14. It says - the bill prescribed, so repeated this member of the law. When individual solutions are explained, there must be reasons why it is necessary, why it is good, why it is necessary for the solution to be legal. If we accept this, then you can say for every member of the law - here, for that reason, and rewrite what you've given as a proposed legal solution. The fact that you're proposing something in the law, it's not an argument for anything. You have to defend that solution with your arguments and say - and that's why it's necessary. I ask you, Mr Marinkovic, once again, not to let Mr Jojic report to the Rules of Procedure, to allow him, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those two minutes for replication. He has the right to comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-20-0.u54719	There's no need. We were correct during this session. I'm still running the session. Thank you for trying to contribute. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to part of the election day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, 21 May 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. This way, I would like to thank Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic and her associates and all the MPs working at this session. Thank you.
