ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55932	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 87 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, and we have conditions to start work. We continue to work and move on to the principle of the 2nd item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY AND SPECIFIC PROCEDURES TO REALIZE THE PROJECT OF THE BUDGET OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE CORRIDENT OF THE AUTHORITY E-761 OF THE ASSESSMENTS – PRELJIN According to Article 90(1). I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that today it is invited to attend the sittings of the Deputy Prime Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. You have received the bill submitted by the Government and I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and asking Professor Zorana Mihajlović's representative, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55933	Thank you. Good afternoon. In June 2019, the President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, dear MPs and MPs, dearly respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a draft law on the establishment of public interest and specific issues for the realisation of the infrastructure corridor project at its regular session. We call it the Moravia Corridor, in fact the E-761 corridor on the Poiate section – Preljina. I believe and hope that today, in the principle debate, we will have the opportunity to discuss all the members, that is, this special law itself. I believe that we will also allow citizens to see, after that, already in mid-July, the beginning of work on this important Corridor. Why is the Moravia Corridor important? Therefore, the Republic of Serbia has been developing further rapidly since 2012, 2014. When we say it is rapidly developing it means that we are connecting with all of our neighbours, when we talk about transport infrastructure, that means we are ending Corridor 10. So the south is finished, the east leg will be very soon. I believe that during the summer, just as we have announced, a share of Corridor 11 will be released, between Obrenovac and Preljina. We are working on a bypass around Belgrade and we are starting a new investment cycle in the area of transport infrastructure this year. But the only highway that basically connects central Serbia, so it doesn't link us to the region, is, in fact, this highway, so-called. Moravia corridor length 110 kilometers between Pojat and Preljina. It connects practically Serbian citizens with Serbian citizens, connects that part of Serbia where over half a million people live, where there are more than 20,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, where there is an industrial zone for now, and we believe there can be more when this highway starts to work. This highway is of great importance to central Serbia's economic development. Somehow this part of Serbia has been neglected for decades. We have always had strategic interests and remain in connecting with the region, but it is equally important to invest in roads on the territory itself, within the very territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this Corridor is important. That's why this highway is important. Each highway also means one new picture of Serbia. Every highway means new jobs, new investments. Every highway means GDP growth. Half a billion euros when invested in investments is one to 1.5 per cent of GDP growth. Serbia has shown it can guarantee investments in the past few years as well as in the years ahead. This also means that citizens of this part of Serbia, especially along this section from Pojata to Preljina, Kruševac and Kralje and Trstenik and Cicevic and Mrčajevac, etc. simply have the possibility that they can now connect to other corridors. This corridor, practically this highway connects Corridor 10, so which we have finished and Corridor 11, which we are working on now, which connects us down to Montenegro, which gives us the opportunity to go out to the sea. What is particularly important is the investment momentum for Serbia's development. We'll talk for sure today in the principle debate on the new highways we're starting this year. This highway is estimated, if we start work in July, we expect this highway to be completed in two and a half years. Why the special law, why not through other laws? So, the special law in front of you is fully in line with the Constitution and all other laws of the Republic of Serbia, but it allows us to be faster in realisation. We also need economic, but also administrative, bureaucratic efficiency when we talk about building highways, especially when we talk about this highway that will connect central Serbia. So, we all want to have a successful discussion today, we'll talk details. I'd like you to know, too, that this is one demanding project, this isn't just a highway. So there were a lot of comments on the subject of the Moravia Price Corridor. It's not a matter of price, what are we actually doing right now? The highway is built, along the highways are fully regulated by Morava and all its tributaries and a telecommunication corridor is made. Practically, three projects are located in this one project of the Moravia Corridor. For information, perhaps first, 76 bridges or, for example, 68 kilometers will be hydrotechnical works. So this is a serious engineering project that is in front of all of us, and that is why I hope, not just a good debate, but that we will be able to explain why this is so important to our country that it will develop further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55934	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Do the committees in charge want a word? No, thank you. We're moving on to authorized representatives. Does anyone want a word from the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups? Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55935	Dear Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People. In front of us today is the proposal for a law establishing public interest and special procedures, for the realisation of the project of building the infrastructure corridor of the highway E-761, the Pojate section – Preljina or project as we call it the Moravski Corridor, within which the construction of this significant section of the highway, with the regulation of rivers, the construction of telecommunications infrastructure along the highway corridor is envisaged. With this, this is a project of exceptional importance for the Republic of Serbia. Moravia Corridor, i.e. The part of Pojate – Preljina is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, both for connecting and greater mobility within the Republic of Serbia and for regional importance. The strategic importance of the project is seen in increasing the availability of municipal centres, economic areas and tourist destinations. The future highway will be built in part on the existing route, and partly shifted from the state road to the first row M5 and will connect all major settlements in the region of Ćićevac, Stalac, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo and Cačak. There are around 500,000 inhabitants living in this area, operating over 21,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, forming 10 business and one free zone. In this part of the Republic of Serbia, there are six mountains, about 20 monasteries and 10 popular destinations of Banjski tourism. Building the route of this section of the highway will significantly raise the level and improve the existing potential when we talk about the tourist offer. Also, new opportunities are opening up for the construction of accompanying tourist facilities, industrial buildings, and thus individual housing construction will increase in this part of Serbia. According to the latest indicators, according to data collected in the first quarter of 2019, the value of works performed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia has increased by 17.6%. The value of the works carried out in the first quarter of 2019 has been significantly increased in the region of Šumadija, Western Serbia and is the largest in the part and is around 38.8%, then in the Belgrade region 14.6% and in the Vojvodina region around 11.4%. While a smaller decline has been recorded in the region of southern and eastern Serbia, a percentage of seven to eight in constant prices is moving there. The construction of a telecommunications highway, which monitors the route of this traffic station, provides conditions for the provision of the most qualitative telecommunications services, both in the highway belt and in all mentioned places, which are gravitating the traffic corridor. The planning of the construction of this Corridor began in 2010, so during 2011, the public company "The Ways of Serbia" agreed to build a project documentation for a section of the Pojate-Preljina highway. However, following the major floods that took place in 2014, new regulations and new standards came into force, so all the latest standards in the area of water protection and the change of the original highway route and provided for additional measures to protect the future highway passing through the blue area of West Morava and its tributaries, which was indeed one complicated task and very demanding. It should be borne in mind that after the May floods of 2014, the changed hydrological conditions, which imposed the need to amend the planning and technical documentation, and this further leads to a conditional change in the existing plans of the area, primarily spatial. The change in spatial plans has initiated a change in previous completed project documentation and so on in the circle. All of these were reasons to approach the implementation of this project in a high-quality and comprehensive way, and therefore on 9 February 2017, the government decided to educate the working group on the implementation of the Moravski Corridor project. The task force has launched a series of activities, primarily related to the revision of previously done projects and spatial plans, family-specific, specific purposes and infrastructure corridors, and a lack of project documentation for the middle part of Kruševac - Adonja. In parallel with this, it was necessary for the competent ministry of the Republic Water Directorate, the public company "Serbian Water", the Institute "Jaroslav Černi", and all in order to achieve optimal construction, both on the highway and at the same time on the permanent water treatment of the West Morava Basin. It is clearly seen that it is an extremely complex and demanding project in terms of planning, preparation and technical documentation, financing, as well as realisation. By passing such a law, it will contribute to the completion of the preparation and implementation of projects in the most efficient and fastest way, which will result in an allocation of benefits for the local population, local economy and faster development of the transport network of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. For the implementation of this project, given the level of investment to cover highway construction, river regulation, construction of a telecommunications corridor along the highway, it is necessary to negotiate parallelly with several banks on conditions for the conclusion of the loan contract. With this in the visa, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, credit debt has been planned for foreign investment corporations and funds worth 800m euros. It is of particular importance that the award of one or more contracts for the overall scope of work on the project, based on the direct selection of the strategic partner, is done in a way that guarantees legal certainty. The law provides for a special contract to be concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and the strategic partner. This will also regulate the dynamics of the performance of the works, which will be the basis for the monitoring of the impact, the changes proposed by this law. The existence of such a law and the assignment of projects, in accordance with internationally recognised legal standards, provides the Republic of Serbia with opportunities to access international financing. This will give the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to provide the funds needed to finance the successful implementation of the project on the international financial market as a whole. This approach will benefit from future infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia, by introducing access to financial resources, which provide various international recognised organisations. The results of the direct impact of the proposed changes on public revenues will be visible on the medium term, as the construction itself and the increased number of construction activities in this area will have a positive impact on public revenues through the payment of taxes from financial transactions, which will take place during the construction of Corridors, the engagement of local companies during construction, the increased presence of a construction operation that increases the level of service use and trade in local self-governments, the use of capacity to accommodate the workforce and others. A particularly positive impact can be expected through the creation of conditions to increase GDP, resulting in positive effects on citizens and businesses in the Republic of Serbia. The strategic partner, according to the law, will be required to develop options for smart infrastructure solutions for the Republic of Serbia, with the delivery of the highest value through early inclusion of contractors, which will allow efficient and rapid implementation of the project, the integration of telecommunications infrastructure and additional value for local communities by giving special attention to flood control. The application of international standards is one of the solutions proposed by the draft law. The entire population of the regions covered by the Moravski Corridor, around 500,000 inhabitants, is expected to have multiple benefits seen in terms of new employment, improving access and connecting parts of the Republic of Serbia with the international traffic corridors 10 and 11, but also increasing the overall standard of living through local economic development. Article 2 of this Act provides that when the construction of the Moravia Corridor is realised, domestic materials and equipment and domestic contractors engaged will be used, which will be set out in a contract for the design and performance of works completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. As someone who comes from the construction industry, I must especially highlight this member and express my satisfaction with the government and the construction ministry's efforts to give this law the possibility of additional employment of domestic construction producers and domestic construction operations. When I talk about employment, I can't help but look back at the years that were extremely difficult for Serbian construction. At the beginning of the privatisation cycle, Serbia's construction operation fell apart and only the companies that had agreed to work abroad survived, as our country, unfortunately, was one complete absence of investments, which led to the construction industry in a very difficult position. It was a third of the capacity to preserve economic activity and such small production could not be placed on the domestic market due to a lack of investment. Seventy per cent and since then has been exported to the countries of the environment, which has further weakened construction producers, as less has been built in Serbia. Thanks to one big investment cycle since 2016, 2017, 2018, we today have construction that is back in full swing, because 24% is the participation of construction material and construction at this time in the official GDP account, which is the highest participation of any industry in GDP growth. The construction industry connects itself to over 50 industrial branches. It is a locomotive for the development of all the resources Serbia has. It has great potential for exporting, to generate a large net foreign exchange inflow. Also, I would like to point out that the construction industry, apart from agriculture, can mass-employ the population of all age structures, of course, through the security of retraining systems and other programmes which, if this trend continues, have a chance of being realized. This large investment cycle, which this government has started, is a chance for a domestic construction operation that was thrown on its knees in the previous period and is now an opportunity to get back on its feet and be a real partner on both domestic and foreign markets. In the near future, new opportunities are being opened for a construction operation abroad, and we need country reference jobs that are of paramount importance due to the reference for domestic construction operations. The need to create a guarantee fund as a guarantee for contracted works to a construction operation and organised performance of Serbia's construction operation on the foreign market is a path for Serbian construction to go. I've been working in construction for a long time, so I remember some times when we had all this. So I look forward to seeing a law that increases the chances of domestic producers and domestic performers. I believe that in the course of the distribution of the work, when we talk about the Moravia Corridor, and yet again, by referring to Article 2 of this Act, domestic performers will be entrusted to the highest possible extent with the tasks of the contractors, as far as the previously agreed conditions allow. Why do I think that's necessary and that's particularly important? Domestic performers and domestic construction producers pay taxes and the country's full budget. They have the possibility that, thanks to the jobs they are entrusted with, they acquire licences that are crucial to competition on the domestic market, especially the foreign market. It's the only way to strengthen the domestic construction industry and I'm glad it's recognized and that this law insists on it. I've worked in construction for 25 years, now in the construction industry, and I love my construction and my industry for which I work. It is a very important position for me, as well as for all the measures that contribute to the improvement of domestic construction. Therefore, together with my colleagues from the SDPS in the voting day, I will support a law that is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55936	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55937	Thank you for your opinion not only for this special law, but for everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in the area of infrastructure, especially transport infrastructure. One thing is really important and it allows us to actually talk today about new infrastructure projects, new highways, a new investment cycle. That is, first of all, one stable budget, and on the other hand, many reforms have been implemented. The area of construction is an area in which, for example, the growth of building permits issued in 2018, compared to a base year 2014, is over 60%. So, year after year, they grow issued building permits, which is what they say and what we can even see with our naked eye. So Serbia is a construction site. On the other hand, we're stable enough, which is also very important, so we can guarantee big investments. This is a big investment, and not just this one, but all the investments in the infrastructure area. It's a couple of highways we start building in 2019. What I think is also very important when it comes to the Moravia Corridor, it's a special law when we've been thinking about whether... First, it is not a newspaper in the Republic of Serbia that we have special laws for certain infrastructure projects. Secondly, this really enables us to be much faster and more efficient in realisation. From this point on, from this position and from this experience, I think it's a big shame that we didn't, or if we had a special law, say, about building Corridor 10, I'm absolutely sure that it would have been over long before and we wouldn't have any problems like we have. Today, although Corridor 10 – South is completed, we are dealing with the expropriation of some parts of Corridor 10. So this special law is here to help us be particularly effective in the field, first of all, expropriation and to use everything that allows us to use the Constitution in that direction. Otherwise, construction, among other things, since I know you work in the area of construction and that you care very much, the area of construction has increased its participation in GDP. So in 2014, it was 3.5%, and the end of 2018 was 4.8%. We expect this year at least 5.5% to be a share of construction in GDP, which is actually all this – new places, the consumption of construction material, cement and everything else. So the message to Serbian citizens that there is room to work here, that investors come and, above all, stay to live in our country, because everything we do, we do, first of all, because of that. Thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55938	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55939	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, today we have a special law on the agenda that regulates the construction of so-called. A Moravia corridor, of which there is one longer history. In short, in December 2012, Verica Kalanovic, then Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, declares that the Chinese Bank will lend a loan to finance these 110km of highways that connects corridors 10 and 11 at a price of 4.7m euros per km, so that is about 500m euros, and that the project will realise "Cina Road and Bridge Construction Company" along with then said 45% of the involvement of domestic performers. It's December 2012. In June 2017, two years ago, Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic announced that the construction of the Moravian Corridor will begin in 2018 and that talks are already being conducted with the US company Behtel and that the projecting tender is already under way. A little more than a year later, in July 2018, the works have not yet begun, and President Aleksandar Vukic again announces their quick start. In October 2018, the Memorandum with the US "Bechtel" is signed and it announces that the estimated value of the project has jumped to 800 million eva, as stated in this Memorandum, starting with existing documentation and the public at that time finds that this is neither the ultimate value but that the project of documentation for the most difficult shares of Kruševac-Adrani and the Memorandum, allegedly only implies joint design, because previous projects are changing due to the shift of the route due to the 2014 floods and all the accompanying consequences of these floods. Finally, a special law for the Moravia Corridor is now in front of MPs in a situation already signed with a company already seen as a strategic partner, although the proposed law prescribes some criteria and some working group for selecting partners. Now, if all of this were to be known, then it would be basic to ask what a special law in the congregation would be, and is it really just to mutilate the later part of what has already been agreed? Now, it is already the very member of the 1st of this kind of special project law that has been passed to implement a specific project of the Moravia Corridor that introduces a special legal regime which aims to regulate matters in a special way in the relevant areas. So, the subject of the law are ways of implementing expropriation, securing project financing, customs and tax regimes on the project. The principle of urgency in the conduct of the state authorities, which are obliged to issue all necessary papers without delay, is introduced. I'm not saying that all of this is necessary, on the contrary. Efficiency in projects is, of course, a fully acceptable goal. So, we have one general speciality and extravagantity in this particular law that says that the Expropriation Act will apply only if it is not contrary to this ad hoc special law which regulates the very procedure of expropriation and deadlines in it itself, such as the question of whom complaints are filed, within which time limits and within which deadlines these complaints are resolved and similar issues, even though we have the Expropriation Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, as general laws which would regulate this issue in a generally acceptable way. An explanation of why the general laws on expropriation and the general administrative procedure are not good, so we have to have this special law is kind of unsatisfactory and I'm going to try to explain the reasons for that attitude. The general argument that things want to speed up is insufficient for me, especially as Article 6 of the Law provides for a three-year deadline for the submission of an expropriation proposal, three years. The importance of a temporary takeover solution is prescribed for five years, and these deadlines call into question, in a way, the ministerial statement that the Moravia Corridor will begin in the summer, a summer which already started two and a half years ago, which would, of course, be wanted and welcomed by all as well-intentioned as possible to have the highway completed as soon as possible. Now, further, the expropriation has already begun according to media information from the end of April this year. For example, in Krusevec, the media then reported that about thirty solutions have already been signed, that citizens are satisfied with these solutions, which is good and announced that some 2100 solutions have been prepared which, I would say, are then adopted under the existing general laws. So, without the special Expropriation Act provided for by this special law that has yet to be adopted in the Assembly. The exhibition, reported by the media, Serbia's Corridors and the local administration already praised them with efficiency and the fact that they are satisfied with citizens, that citizens are satisfied with the solutions they have received. This remains unclear in the light of the bill on why the existing laws are a stumbling block and a slowdown, so it is necessary to pass this special law, and I do not wish to dispute in advance the need of this special law. I just think these are things that need to be clarified. The argument that a special law is passed legal certainty is also asked to me then, and I would like it to be clarified, because the fact that the expropriation in Kruševec started before the adoption of this special law raises the question and the intention to introduce legal certainty by this special law and to ensure equality for all citizens, without discrimination, which has been declared and the objective set out in the explanation of the proposal for this special law. Then it was established that we would have part of the expropriation by regular and part of the expropriation under this special legal regime? So legal certainty means equality for everyone, and it seems to me that it's somehow questionable now. The Expropriation Act, for example, states in Article 35 that the transfer of the items of expropriation to the user before the eligibility of the settlement of compensation or before reaching an agreement on compensation is not permitted, except in case of urgency for the resolution of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the final determination of a fair fee is the trigger for the entry of investors intoexploded assets. Here, on the other hand, this special law on the Moravia Corridor is prescribed that the appeal against the expropriation solution does not delay the issue of a building permit, and that the investor has the right to introduce the contractors into the expropriated assets within seven days of the delivery of the solution to expropriate the parties in the proceedings. So, these provisions, I'm afraid, can create both the problem and the owners of the property that is the subject of expropriation and the scouts of the works and investors from the angle of integrity of the private property, should not be the talk of the building permit or the introduction of the contractor into the exploited property, until the fair compensation of its owner has finally been determined. It'd be best if it was paid. When you regulate several laws in different ways one and the same legal questions and one and the same procedures, but with different deadlines and different methods of implementation, you actually introduce legal uncertainty. That's why ad hoc laws, I'm afraid, are not always the ideal solution because they violate, potentially disrupt the integrity and consistency of the legal system. The argument that a special law will allow the construction of a road and telecommunications route and telecommunications infrastructure to be built is also unclear, because a special Law on Telecommunications Infrastructure does not say anything, and then it is unclear why the telecommunications infrastructure required a special law and the existing laws were insufficient. The argument that a special law makes it easier and more favourable to obtain international funding is logical and acceptable. I can understand that in some ways we have one legal "one stop shop" that regulates everything and all legal issues in the project and that it may be easier to present it to potential financials, but yet I say it is not necessary and it is not necessary and it is not good that the special law may regulate things differently compared to the way they are regulated by the general law. So here we're talking about that it's enough just to aggregate different solutions from different laws, in the same way to prescribe them in a special law and aggregate them in one place. The argument that a special law is passed for the transfer of knowledge and technology by a strategic partner and specific technical solutions regarding the integration of telecommunications infrastructure and flood control is also asked to me, because none of it, again, is explicitly prescribed as an obligation in this special law, but it has yet to be found in the documentation, and whether or not, we will see later. About as well as the green roofs in the malls in large urban areas, which investors promise at the stage of designing and obtaining documentation and starting work, and at the end when the handover of these green roofs at the malls is done, there are roofs that leak. I even find it a little comical to explain when there is one question, says – do specific laws exist in projects in domestic international practice and then, as an example, states "South Stream"? I wouldn't really say "South Stream" as a positive example for anything, since it's a symbol of delusion to me and I wouldn't, we made 30m euros on a promise and set up a project company, we're the only ones who started abroad in Switzerland, along the way we sold NIS below the price for "South Stream" from which there's nothing, etc. So I wouldn't put it as a positive example. I do not necessarily argue that a special law is not necessary and I do not necessarily argue that the transfer of knowledge and technology by a strategic partner to the domestic construction industry will not happen, only the argument that a special law is passed precisely because of this is not logical to me for these reasons. On how much this project will work for domestic companies, the law also says nothing precise and does not give guarantees, but says it will be arranged by a contract on designing and carrying out works, which will be completed under this law, and then further question is how much the domestic construction industry will profit from it. This special law on the construction of the Moravia Corridor also provides for suspension of regular procurement procedures, since the choice of a strategic partner for the implementation of the project is prescribed by the Government on a proposal from the working group educated by the same government. The working group of the strategic partner will choose the criteria that the same government will bring back to the sublegal act. So everything is within the government and these provisions are potentially corrupt and put the government in conflict of interest. The government, therefore, defines the criteria for the choice of a strategic partner, the government forms a working group that proposes a strategic partner to the government under these criteria, and the government then decides on the proposal, elects a strategic partner and the government concludes the contract with him again. It is explicitly prescribed that, when selecting a strategic partner and completing a project and construction contract, the Moravia Corridor, as well as selecting a supervisory authority, the procurement rules will not be applied. So over 800m euros in public money will be spent without public procurement. And, of course, the government will oversee itself in the implementation of this special law. The public already mentions a strategic partner, a private company called Bechtel, an American, which is an undisputed giant company, a global caliber, has over 26 billion dollars in income and over 55,000 employees. The minister talks about this company in a way like they're actually doing us a favor, bringing us knowledge and technology, like they're our buyer, not us to them. As far as I'm concerned, the strategic partner is still just a delivery service for our money. We're Mr. Customer here. These so-called provisions, which bear the circumvention of public procurement and conflict of interest of the executive government, which is also an indicator of the risk of corruption, are particularly concerned if one of the texts I found in April 2017, was published by the British daily Telegraph in which Bechtel connects with the petrochemical facility affair in Abu Dhabi, where Telegraph reported that Bechtel's company used the services of a certain "Al Badie" group to obtain this $600m job. The "Al Badie" group admitted in the British court that it made illegal payments to provide jobs for companies that violated British rules on corruption. In addition, at the Court of Appeal in Great Britain, it was also stated that Bechtel was familiar with arrangements that entailed payment of money to two Saudi princes in connection with contracts to build a metro system in Riyad in Saudi Arabia, and this problem was otherwise brought to the public by two princes over the inheritance dispute. The Bechtel company has, of course, denied all this, but still doubts that a special law is written that special legal arrangements would create special conditions for someone's special interests, which are not necessarily in the best public interest. Finally, what concerns the most and represents the biggest problem in Serbian infrastructure projects is the realisation and management of projects. Thus, we can take the example of Corridor 10 and the shares of the Serbian House-Levosoja, where it has been found that as many as 30 times this section has been redesigned during construction and that all these changes have not even been covered by building permits, consequently deadlines have been breached, and the value of the works has increased 1.2 billion. I've found information, it's similar, of course, to the Gredile Cliss, which is known to the public because of that derailment of the supporting wall. The project reportedly has been changed 11 times in walking, even changed by the performer himself, without the approval of the supervisory authority investors etc. It happens that performers on the ground encounter unforeseen situations. In Gredelica they encountered optical cables, non-compliance on the ground with the zero state of research, unforeseeable geotechnical conditions, etc. All these unforeseen situations impose changes in projects, increases in work value and deadlines. The broken deadlines delay the withdrawal of money from credit. It again pulls the payment of the penalty and the financials, and the performers then demand compensation for the damage. I found in the media information that we are in trouble for the derailment of the hills in Grdelica because the performer asks the state for 14.8m in compensation for delays they do not think are responsible, that we paid 2.8m euros in compensation for the Predejan tunnel as a state performer. Then the question must be asked – who is responsible for additional costs and damages to shares on which deadlines have been broken, on which are the redesigned works on which these works are carried out according to changed projects without a building permit, etc.? So, shares of the Serbian House-Levosoje, there is the supervisory body of Serbia's Corridors. So, the JP Assembly of Serbia, among other things, is competent to adopt reports on the construction of the road section, makes a decision to hand over the road share to the competent authority. The assembly of the company is also responsible for overseeing the work of the director and adopting the director's reports. So, the Serbian Parliament oversees the work of the company's director, who is the supervisory authority on a stake on which we have 1.2 billion dinars of unforeseen costs of highway construction, broken deadlines, etc. Who appoints this congregation? Five of them, the D.O.D. So we always have one round of responsibilities transferred to the projector – contractor – supervisory authority – investor. However, when you look at it this way through the founding act of the supervisory authority, you see that this one circle of responsibility is actually detached into a clear chain of responsibility, where the ultimate responsibility ends in your ministry. What I'm trying to say is that here, it has to be done more seriously the way the projects are run and managed. I know a bunch of institutions are involved in the project's realisation system. You can't be responsible for the unsupervisedness of the cadastres in the local self-governments, for someone coming across the optical cables that God knows who's there when they're set up, and only a performer comes across them with a bogeyman. And the citizens know, in the city's environments, the bagger stabs the spoon into the concrete, penetrates the tube that's located where the project documentation shouldn't have been. Someone else is responsible for these things, but the ultimate responsibility is on you. Otherwise, the objectives announced by this project: better accessibility, integration of parts of Serbia, weather and economic savings, better regional integration, greater transit traffic, economic and tourism development of municipalities, telecommunications infrastructure, and an increase in the value of a national telecommunications operator, better protection from floods. Of course, only a malicious man can be against such goals. But finally, these goals should be achieved in an economically more effective and efficient way, and the management of projects and management of public enterprises engaged in these projects is, of course, mostly within the competence of party personnel of the ruling coalition. Therefore, responsibility for the deadlines broken, for the increased value of the work, for the penalty performers, for the penalty funders for not withdrawing the funds is clear on who should bear the responsibility, even if it was only political. As a result, according to the World Economic Forum, we are 100th on the road quality list, in the region the last, according to this table of countries in the region, only BiH is behind us. For the end, the map you gave us, for my notion of the green route, are the routes that are planned. Unfortunately, there are few green routes in Vojvodina. I would like to get precise information from you about the Fuška Gora corridor, because Fruska Gora is probably a rare example of a national park passing international transit freight traffic. I'm interested in the information when will work to build corridors through Fruska Gora begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55940	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55941	I think there's a lot of information, it just seems to me based on the media you're here with right now, and that's why I'm going to, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, but also for you, to explain. One part of your opinion seems to me that it's not exactly what it really is, about both the law and these other things you've mentioned. When we talk about the law and why a special law is only one reason, just as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has stated in its explanation, that is, the explanation of this special law, which is to be faster and more efficient in realisation. When we talk about expropriation, which de facto is a problem everywhere and on every corridor and which is still today, I repeat once again, the problem in Corridor 10 south, even though we finished it, so our interest was not to wait and be faster. When you mention how it started in Kruševec, I will tell you that in Kruševec alone there are several thousand cadastrian plots and that there will generally be tens of thousands of cadastrian parcels that will pass the expropriation process. So we can't afford to lose months and years because in some part we can have problems. On the other hand, the laws also allowed us to work phasely. Also, under three, we are not going to start work anywhere where absolutely everything is not prepared which is necessary to be prepared for a particular share or part of the share to be done, which is also a big difference compared to some previous periods. When you mention project technical documentation, a plan base and a year backwards, I'll tell you, in 2010, it was the beginning of making, or defining, or making project-technical documentation, I mean, from some institute but it wasn't finished. Why is all this taking so long? Because we're fixing one piece, on the other hand, we're changing the entire course precisely because of the flood. Also, this law, I repeat once again, is not just the construction of the highway, and that is one part very important, that is the regulation of Morava, that is regulation of all the tributaries, it is a completely changed legal solution after 2014, which is good why we changed them, and on the other hand, it imposes on us the situation that we have to make, or change the project-technical documentation. When you mention whether there will be a transfer of knowledge etc. and new technologies, it's one of the factors. We try to make sure that all the new contracts we sign, all the new projects we work on, of all the performers and investors, so we simply learn something and that our construction companies have the opportunity not only to work, but to actually apply some new technologies. Things change fast. I have to admit that our construction industry, it's not easy for her, it's trying to catch up with the world, and the way to catch up with the world is that she has exactly those she's going to learn from. What I think is equally important about expropriation, that there would be no confusion for all people who listen to it, so what's quite safe and that doesn't change anything, is that the owner of the immovable property will have the right, or there's a fee that's at the height of the market value of immovableity. Nothing changes here, but we really want to speed up the whole process. Everything proposed by the laws will be applied, but the process will not be stopped in the realisation of the big project, which is often happening to us. I am very glad that you mentioned the very part of the Serbian House – Levosoje on Corridor 10, because there is just the problem of South Morava. We had a situation, in 2014, one of the performers, I no longer remember who were performers from some previous years, previous governments that concluded contracts, did not do their job, we broke that contract. The government of the Republic of Serbia has provided money in the budget, we have issued a public call, we have received a consortium of Serbian performers and they have had to completely change the project-technical documentation due to the lack of regulation of South Morava. You have a similar situation now in the Moravia Corridor. So, not only can the highway, it must regulate Morava, as well as the code, let's say, the Serbian House – Levosoje. Who is generally to blame for Corridor 10 and the great and powerful redesigns and everything we've been living for 20 years when we talk about Corridor 10? Well, the ones who made the deals and there's nothing else, it's just like that. So, Corridor 10 would have been completed much earlier if it had been taken into account, firstly, that loans were not taken before there was project-technical documentation and a plan base, such as any story about the Moravia Corridor, and there was no plan base. The plan-based regulation was only given in 2013. So, simply, politicians went out and talked about how they would work, I don't know, Moravia Corridor, Corridor 10, Corridor 11 etc. We remember them, and they were essentially and realistically doing nothing, except that the state at the time was borrowing and taking hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros from various institutions, and that the realization was absolutely zero. That's the difference, so, which we want to avoid, not just for the Moravia Corridor, but for any other highway that we start working on. We, for example, started to build a section of Preljina-Pozega, which is usually a very demanding and difficult share, but until we finished all the previous actions we didn't start building that section, because the lesson that we have is from Corridor 10, but also from Corridor 11 that we have to take care of all the preparations, before that happens, of the construction itself. I'm sure there'll be more stories about Corridor 10. When the eastern arm is finished, as we have said, we will do a great analysis, not only of ourselves, we will ask the institutions, who are expert in such a thing, to deal with Corridor 10, to give us their opinion with all possible analysis, to draw all the conclusions out of it again and not to repeat such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55942	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55943	Thank you. Short replica relating to breaking deadlines and increasing the value of work on Corridor 10. You said politicians went out a lot, etc., but I have to say that it's a general practice in Serbia and politics to promise investments, towers and cities, etc. At the beginning of my presentation, I mentioned your statement from June 2017, so two years ago, when you stated that the construction of the Moravia Corridor will begin in 2018, and now we are at the end of June 2019. As a politician, I would never make any promises and make too many promises, but I would try to overcome expectations. I don't know if you've noticed, but I didn't question the price increase with, 500 years ago mentioned on the currently scheduled 800m euros, and precisely because I appreciate the finding that this is not just a highway building, but that it adds and solves the problem of the blue areas in the latrine of Morava and the telecommunication route that joins. At this point, I have no information to say that 800 is little or much, that it should be 720 or 950. I have disputed the suspension of the concept of public procurement, the suspension of the Public Procurement Act, because I believe that this kind of money is not right to spend without public procurement. I guess there's really going to be a transfer of knowledge and technology by a strategic partner to the domestic construction industry, but I'm just saying that passing a special law isn't about that. Under the existing laws, we could work with a respectable, global strategic partner with public procurement, so even without a specific law there could be a transfer of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55944	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55945	This last thing you said, I think it deserves a completely different discussion and analysis, because again now, after a few years of work in infrastructure and analysis, how Corridor 10 and funding from many international financial institutions, we have a day today, let's say, the company one on the eastern arm that doesn't finish its job, and it's chosen in the tender. On the other hand, the strategic contracts we have with many countries, such as Azerbaijan, China, Russia, etc., with which we do the largest infrastructure projects without public procurement. If we started doing tests, I don't know where that would lead us, we should. We certainly have some things to speed up and change in the field of project management, and I totally agree with that. As for the promise, you know how, I don't know what the general practice of all politicians is, as you say, but the fact that I can stand in front of you now and say, yes, we're going to start working on the summer on the Moravia Corridor, because behind us, this government of Serbia, standing 300 kilometers of highways done in the past four years, behind us is 600 kilometers of rehabilitated railways, behind us is the beginning of the largest infrastructure projects. So that's what citizens see. Before 2012, you couldn't see anything, you could only hear the voice of politicians who talked, talked – this will be done, it will be done, we will do it, and the essential people in front of them have not seen the highways finished. So I understand your thinking that maybe it's not like that, that it's not gonna be like that, but I think that practice, for the past few years, I believe in years ahead of us is going to deny us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55946	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55947	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Minister with associates, I will support as well as the parliamentary group of this law that you have proposed for one simple and simple reason. This law allows a fully clear, defined, precise and responsible way for Serbia's citizens, so according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the work on the construction of the Moravia Corridor is completed as soon as possible, as much as of course allowed by all the technical preconditions to be prepared to do so. We can comment on what's good and what's not good, what leaves some doubt, what doesn't leave any dilemma, whether public procurement gives a greater guarantee that there won't be some things that we don't like or this kind of system of direct responsibility, where practically the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or your ministry, which runs the whole business, absolutely assumes on itself the full responsibility that they will choose the most favourable way, the best way to build this road, the cheapest way, absolutely answer in front of the citizens of Serbia for any action that is taken from the elections to the financing until the full completion of the Moravi Corridor. Taking responsibility today is a very big courage, but this also shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the knowledge and competence to deal with these things. It's absolutely clear to me, I'm only going to point out a few details and details that were really logical in this law, because if you hadn't predicted and proposed Article 4(2), we would have a problem with local self-government as to how to interpret the implementation of the expropriation procedure. You have suggested here, I quote – when the subject of expropriation is the immovableity on which the owner is registered a person whose residence, or residence is unknown, which has no pronouns, the authority leading the expropriation procedure will appoint that person a temporary representative who has the rights and obligations laid down by the law governing the general administrative procedure. This doesn't exist as a provision in earlier laws. This was a matter of interpretation and analog application of some of the other provisions contained in these laws. One local self-government interpreted in one way, the other local self-government in another way and there was a situation where they applied in such a way, which is the correct interpretation of that law, because it allowed expropriation, that it was properly implemented both in time and in time, as expected, of course after the declaration of public interest for a particular land, and that the parties who are in a position to set up a temporary representative would not be damaged in any way, whether the compensation would take place at this time or any future second moment do not result in any obsolescence of the right to compensation for the market value of the immovable property being expunged. Unfortunately, there were also those local self-governments that interpreted it in another way, interrupted the expropriation process until the owner was found at any cost of the land and simply something that was the public interest of the Republic of Serbia stood in the seal and wasted valuable time, as it was not just that month, six months, a year. I know of some items that stand five years apart because they haven't been able to find the owners who moved away and don't take care of their property. You're telling yourself what we're all aware of here, that market conditions, that technical conditions change from day to day so that what was current three months ago as a possible methodology today is already a overcome thing. Also, the financing process. Unfortunately, we're not rich enough, and our budget isn't that big that we're directly financing, but we're obliged to obtain money and I'm sure because of these kind of failures in the procedure that were going on, it was that some more favourable credit arrangements that we were in a situation that we had to lose. So this is totally logical, and this is what we call it, the lex specialis, which here practically, so they like to say today, is three in one, three areas very important defines, and these are the goals that you're talking about in addition to building the highway, fixing the plums and providing a telecommunications corridor. It is quite well here, and in accordance with all existing laws, any possible interference is removed that the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, which should otherwise be unconstitutional, must be reminded of both distinguished colleagues and citizens, that what is declared public interest, a certain route of passage, in particular where the corridor is, it will be excluded, it will be paid and there will be no way, nor is there a procedure that can prevent it and allow individuals to simply prevent the citizens of Serbia from achieving something of interest for the whole country. So this is one of the key things, only one of the key things that should be properly regulated by this law. It was also a question of market charges, i.e. construction fees for buildings that were not built in accordance with the law. It is also in line with the regulations, but here is practically one of several laws that allows one who is working on expropriation to have a clear picture and a legal basis in which they will act in a way that leads the job to an end with full responsibility for those who need to receive an expropriation fee, were they built in accordance with the law, whether they are in the process of law or not, of course, not spending more time on it, but also honoring the deadlines that are set. As for public procurement or direct negotiation, let me say it in a so-called manner, I have always been in favour of that that direct negotiations and direct negotiations have always been far more useful, because they absolutely imply a much greater responsibility for one who, as a signator of a foreign investor, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this situation, is behind it all. You know, in practice through public procurement, we've had everything and everything, the criteria of the lowest price or the best-proposed deadline that comes out of our noses, because we don't know what we're going to do with those contractors, so until the contract is broken, then possible arbitration, then litigation, whether it's for a reason or for no reason it's broken. You know, we're going in these some of our stories that everything is ideal, that all those who offer their services at the construction are well-intentioned, they think about it. No, they're looking to get to work. Of course, there should be a selection between serious companies, but serious firms that offer adequate offers and prices, and as far as the deadlines are concerned, at some point we are forced to put aside the irresponsible ones who have officially offered a much shorter deadline, a far lower price, and then in the building, these are some of my experiences from the law, on the unforeseeable ex post and other works trying to take out the cost of the difference because they gave the dumping price. I think this is just gonna stop it from happening. When we talk about promises, the question arises – what is now some kind of promise that a man can really make about all this? Since 1978, I have heard that Obrenovac will be connected by highway from Obrenovac to Belgrade. I expected quite a bit from that authority that was much closer and more dear to me and that system that was valid until the early 1990s, and in the meantime I had just listened to myself until today, I wouldn't even mention it. We're about to have a completed corridor. Therefore, trust must be given to those who demonstrate their responsibility with their results. You know, the design of Corridor 10 and the performance of the works didn't start the day before yesterday, it didn't start two years ago, and I don't know the details, but I know the details, now they're going to say, who, grandma about the stickers, about the Obrenovac-Ub road, I know that the reconstruction started in 2007, so almost nothing was done, so then pre-projection was done that had nothing to do with reality on the ground in 2010. Based on the kind of redesign I've been talking about and which I've been asking you to examine, and since we've already done what we've done about the Engineering Chamber, the responsibility of the designers, I'm really asking you to examine the responsibility of whoever allowed yourself to do the projecting of such a road without going out to see the road section at all, not once has he shown up on the spot. I can't prove it to you, but I'm absolutely sure of what I'm saying. Such people should be placed on a pillar of shame, suspended their licenses and simply prevented from playing with it. What do we do now? Who is to blame for the fact that this trip today cannot bear the burden it currently suffers? Who? Today's government? Today's ministry? That's not true. It is now time for someone to take responsibility for the reconstruction of the road today, which I suppose is not in the ugliest dreams, that the Republic of Serbia or the performers on the highway will have to invest money when the corridor is finished to reconstruct it completely. This must have happened on Corridor 10, down through the Throat, where we all witnessed something dramatic at some point, experienced dramatically, through the media followed, but what I do know, what all the problems encountered in performing the work through the Throat, may even have been the derailment of the supporting wall one small thing in relation to all those other problems that had to be solved in walking. Therefore, there is no reason why this law should not be passed. These are the laws to be passed. Of course, they can't become a rule, but the need for Serbia to connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, to simply open the way for investors and their interest to come to Serbia, to open up central Serbia and to interest investors in it, is very important and it's extremely important not to lose a single day because there are any misunderstandings in the procedure or there may be some clerk who has a different opinion from another official in another municipality, and we have left local self-governments to do expropriation, because, simply, every day of the loss in the end of this job can lead to one of the investors who would like to come, regardless of all this, give up the job. Construction of a highway passing by Obrenovac and connecting it with Belgrade and the interest of investors who have already opened factories in Baric and the immediate environment of Obrenovac and the interest it is now showing, clearly state the importance of investment in infrastructure, in road infrastructure, in highways, because it is simply the future. The investors in the world have very little, serious ones, and in this fight they are in a position to make every little thing that they like or don't like decide whether to come or invest their money or whether we're going to get new jobs. I'm not going to mention the next thing, this solving of water problems, editing the flow of Morava, I'm just saying how safe a man can feel now in Obrenovac, although Obrenovac is one of the most endangered major cities that are always at a potential risk of flooding, practically, the highway now represents another protective disaster from Kolubara, Tamnava and other lush rivers that are practically Obrenovac in 2014 and submerged. Therefore, I am perfectly reasonable and clear on these changes and waiting for them to occur. And the better it turns out is where are the critical zones that, practically, with this job three to one, we can remove. If it is necessary to remove the route of the highway corridor to address both the problem of swimming and regulating Morava, then it is indeed something that is completely meaningful and, of course, by adopting such a law, it will be far more rapid procedure for us to get to that final goal, which is simply that Serbia is being remanded by highways and good local roads, because local roads will be much better afterwards, because they will no longer be burdened by the amount of traffic they are not intended for. I can list many more reasons, but I think it's quite enough for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand why this law should be supported. Of course, in the voting day, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55948	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55949	I want to thank you for your opinion, especially for voting on this bill day, especially because you and the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, which I also think is very important, when we talk about all the laws, and especially about this, because there have also been a lot of comments on whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution, which, of course, is, in every sense, because no law, in order to know Serbian citizens, comes to parliament and not only before that not only does not go through all the discussions but, of course, all the committees and legislation and, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Serbian Parliament. Also, what I think is an important question of course, you mentioned now, so we were looking for an optimal route. And as the route was changed, that is, moved and removed right from the river. There's a map here that can be seen, so this red is a path and, let's say, wherever we could get away from the river, we practically escaped. We've been changing paths, which is also one of the reasons why the paperwork was changing. When you talk about highways, Serbia if it is not connected, and it is located on such a corridor and as a transit corridor, above all, the country, Serbia, loses. And every mile of regional or highway, railways, everything we do is good for us, just for our investments and for the jobs that need to be opened here. The share of Obrenovac and all that you mention is, it's Corridor 11 that's been talked about for many years, as has been said about Corridor 10. But by August of August, by mid-August, we'll have released a full share of Obrenovac-Preljina. We've got Ljig-Pray, released a few years ago, and for the record, Obrenovac-Ub was completely finished. What we've been waiting for for over a year for to release this stock is the Ub-Likovac stock that we're fixing, and that's what's essentially never supposed to happen to us again in the future. So the management of large infrastructure projects must be quick, efficient and we must not get into a situation to build some projects for ten or more years. I believe that all of this that we're doing right now, the new projects that we're starting this year, it won't be possible, since it's all prepped up before it's even the end date. This includes all the problems, including solving the problems we had before, both with licenses and engineers, project-technical documentation, planning bases, expropriations, and with everything that touches every infrastructure project, especially when it is big, and most of all, it affects Serbian citizens who are waiting for the roads to be finished. So, thanks again for all your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55950	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55951	Thank you. I am pleased to be in this high house today to participate in the discussion of the draft law concerning the realization of the construction of a section of the Pojate-Preljina highway. The construction of this section, i.e. the Moravia Corridor, will directly affect the economic empowerment of not only Raško, but also Zlatiborski, Rasinsko and Moravia district, which is when we talk about numbers, about 500,000 inhabitants and about 20,000 business entities. For us from the JS building not only the Moravia Corridor, but also the conclusion of Corridor 10 and 11 is a great responsibility of the state to its citizens, because any part of our country could develop and be attractive to investors, the most important is the proximity of the highway or airport. Realisation of infrastructure projects contributes to the progress of the entire economy, and thus to balanced regional development. Construction of modern traffic facilities enables better integration and more intensive transport and trade, increasing productivity of each business and thus creating conditions for greater competitiveness. The area with developed infrastructure and a network of highways is more attractive for foreign investors, for the construction of factories, for the creation of new jobs for the local population, but also as a tourist destination. I can't help but mention that on Friday, June 28th, the Morava airport will officially open in the Kraljevci, which will be for civilian traffic and later for cargo. The opening of the airport "Morava" will boost not only the business offer of the Raška area, but also the tourist and many beauty of the Raška area, such as the monastery Studenica, Žica, Kopalnik, Vrnjačka Banja, will be an attractive destination for many tourists. This will contribute to greater employment of production and service capacities of the domestic economy, which opens up an additional possibility for the realisation of local self-government development projects. Domestic and foreign tourists will be offered tourist offers of Banjska, health and mountain tourism, which is important when we know that the direct contribution of GDP tourism in Serbia is about 2.2%. The Moravia corridor will improve access and integration of central Serbia with Corridor 10, resulting in many positive effects, such as weather savings, lower transport costs and better regional integration. Just a few days after the opening of the southern arms of Corridor 10, the MPs of Unity Serbia passed that part of the road during the official opening of the Single Serbia Office in Paralya, and we were able to see how important the time savings were and how much increased the safety of the drivers themselves was on the way. When we build highways, they don't just have strategic significance in terms of economy, but also in terms of traffic safety. The new kilometers of highways mean fewer car accidents, fewer victims and significantly less traffic accidents, which is important since Serbia singles out 1.7% of GDP to repair the damage to traffic accidents. To investors who came to the Kingdom after decades of stagnation of the royal industry, I am talking about Germany's "Leonia" and Turkey's Taipe factory, the opening of the airport and the completion of the Moravia Corridor will certainly be an incentive and an incentive to expand its capacities in the future and give a good example to other investors that Serbia is a safe and stable country worth investing in. I think after every government, all that remains is what's been done. It's this government and your ministry that's done a lot when we talk about our country's infrastructure. Just over the past few years, some 300km of new highways have been built. The construction of the Moravski Corridor is a specific project, because it involves building not only the highway, but also the most modern telecommunications network and protecting the Morava River and its tributaries. When I mentioned the river Morava, I would like to present to you, Madam Minister, the fear of the village of Sirch at the King's place about the removal of the river Morava's trough and make sure that there is no spilling and swimming in the future, because this place has suffered the greatest damage in the last floods. Even 23 bridges and damages of about 560 million dinars are the result of the last floods that hit the King. I believe the designer also took into account the needs of the locals not to have their bridge and the road that connects Sirca with the city across the industrial zone Magnohro. Serbia, or this government, is working daily to develop and modernise the state in order to be equal, not only with other countries in the region, but also with many European modern countries. The country's development is measured by a network of highways and the quality of life, economy and tourism increases with each new km. Unique Serbia recognises the benefits of the proposed law, which will contribute to strengthening our country and therefore, with satisfaction in the voting day, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55952	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55953	Thank you for voting in favour of this bill. It's very important that this part is related to the regulation of Morava and its tributaries. It's important because when this job is done inside this project, then I believe that some of the things that happened recently can't happen, so as much as last week. I also want to inform you, we'll take care of it, I think that's what's being taken care of, but here I'm giving you my word that we're going to look at it again, but you know that from the project, or the length of the stock that's 110 kilometers, so 68.15 kilometers is hydro-technical work. Because of the citizens of Serbia, the regulation of water streams without West Morava is 11.5km. River regulation, 30 miles. The reconstruction and construction of the embankment, so 22 kilometers, will be nothing more than a embankment. Then, construction of the coastal fort four, almost four kilometers. Total work on the river, practically, will be at 56 kilometers. So a highway without a river regulation wouldn't give those effects that we actually want. I think it's just as important as building the highway itself. So thanks again for saying that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55954	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55955	For the people to understand us, first, to simplify this complex title of the law. We are today discussing a bill that will establish a general interest in the construction of the highway from Preljina to Pojat, which means that the route will be taken away from the physical and legal persons and land and houses and business facilities, etc. Just determining the general interest is something that is really fine and I don't know if there is a well-intentioned man in the country of Serbia who would have something against building and this highway and every other highway and railway and regional roads and local roads. So we're far from saying we're satisfied with the road infrastructure. To work, it's done, we don't want to challenge what's fact, but this law isn't good. This law should not have been done in this way as a lex specialis, because it is true that there is an obligation to establish a general interest so that it could expropriate or exclude immovableities, but it was enough to write in this law which route, where it goes, which length, conditions of choice of performers etc. But, well, if it were like this, it would have been a lot better if you hadn't called in the worst parts of the Expropriation Act. The expropriation law that this lex specialis has to rely on has been very bad since 2001. Indeed, I must remind you, since that year 2001, when these revolutionaries passed laws, then they brought in a very harmful Expropriation Act, which was actually one of the means of kidnapping, stealing when everything started to take away both factories and businesses. From that time on, we still have large quantities, large plots of land, you met them, Mrs. Mihajlović, and on this Corridor that is now finished, you will meet them on this next one, and if there is another runway at the airport "Nikola Tesla", you will find one, two or five owners who have a large amount of land, which were then close to the authorities, so they had information where to plan what to do, and they had a specific way of convincing the owners, who literally had to sell their parcels to them to make these complexes and to take serious money in the expropriation process. There's nothing you can do about it right now. Whoever owns it, owns it, has to be treated, you don't go in, and you can't get into how he became the owner. I note this so that it will not happen in this period and in this Corridor and in some future, that similar things don't happen. What's wrong with this law? You're saying that this law in a certain way guarantees legal certainty, but believe that every lex specialis speaks the opposite, says that there is no legal certainty, and then the lex specialises some things, formulates in some different way, etc. Believe me, Madam Minister, you'll have a lot of problems just by applying this law, a lot of problems. The established general interest. All owners have to suffer, and that's where I think we all agree absolutely, but no one has to suffer any harm. Under this law, as you've come to understand this, there will be damage. The very fact that the contractor will be able to enter the property without even starting the compensation procedure is that you can do whatever you want with the property. If there's already a highway built in someone's field, what's he gonna do after? As much as he is offered in court proceedings in the end, he will accept the settlement, what he will, he must. So the state has to provide enough resources for people whose immovableities are being expunged to get a fair fee. I repeat, they must suffer the fact that there is a general interest, that their immovableities include this general interest, but no one has to suffer. Now to comment on some of these members, of course, we're going to spread it according to the amendments, because we really have submitted a large number of amendments, and we're bound to. If you haven't seen them, you'll see, in a way that we've basically regulated all of what you've predicted here and, we claim, in a much fairer, fairer and more legal correct law, in combination with the parts of this law that we haven't changed, it's a whole new law, and essentially the same. We think that it is the essence of the amendments and that it is good that we are finally in a situation that we can discuss one law as one item of the agenda, so we can also do it that way. In Article 5, you have set "Serbiad" for the user of expropriation to perform work on river regulation in the scope of the plan document referred to in Article 3 of this Act, now that I'm not talking about this Article 3, it doesn't matter, it's something else that matters here. Members of the SRS for three and a half years every chance we use when there is a Minister of Agriculture, when there is a Prime Minister, so I think several times through some laws and we've turned our attention to a big problem, especially along the Morava River and along the entire drain of the Morava River, it's literally stealing plots because of illegal mining of gravel. People who are catastrian owners of these parcels still pay taxes today. They pay, imagine the absurd, the disposal fee, and their plot is gone. All the ministers we spoke to, who were in charge, said yes, that is, the problem and we have to solve it. This has not been solved and it will be one of the problems in implementing this law. The President of the Republic said yesterday, you said something similar today, that, among other things, this law and the construction of this corridor would solve the flow of the entire river Morava, i.e. the Morava Basin, means all the tributaries of the Morava River. But until you settle this as a previous question, there's nothing you can do about it. You'll make the shore forts. On whose land? On whose land will you build the shore forts, when, because the state didn't function, people simply disappeared large amounts of land? They didn't disappear as a result of the elemental accident, which we could understand, so Morava didn't change her course because of some natural disasters, but because it was stolen from the municipality to the municipality, the municipal authorities kept quiet, probably many were dealing with those people who did it. You really need to solve this problem, if you don't think it's happening to you to get the corridor there to some part with Morava and get people out and don't let you go any further until you solve their problem. That's got to be understood. Because once they get over it, they'll never solve it again, and it takes a few years. You're saying an expropriation proposal will be submitted within three years at the latest. We told you that it should be one year, because you said yourself that a lot of this job has already been prepared, done and approximately to wait for this law to take place in a few days, if you said during the summer, then it's in a few days, to start building this corridor. Then this is again a big deadline, which will actually interfere with the work and extend the deadline that you planned to complete this corridor. When it comes to compensation for building land on which a building facility was built without a building permit, this is also an unfair solution. You're saying the owner of such a facility has the right to compensation at the height of the estimated building value of that facility. We ask you why only here is the estimated building value and who will evaluate it, why not market value, like in all other properties? There is an authority behind the market value, the Administration of Income stands. I guess we should expect that, if nothing else, they will treat all the immovableities in the same way, so that someone's house will not be able to estimate an estimated 100,000 euros and the other 150,000 if they are almost identical. So, when you're already bringing a Lex special, then you really need to edit every detail. This is what we're talking about, and that's why we wrote those amendments, so that finally this time it could be done and that it wouldn't happen that in a few months we're reading in the papers – that Zorana Mihajlović went to the corridor, she won't move until the machines start working, and the machines can't work because people took their machines out on their pitch and let no one live through. It won't work until he gets his fee. You say: first of all, I say, it will be brought into possession, that is, Article 13, according to the lawfulness of the solution, the conditions for the launch of the procedure for the implementation of the compensation. That's not good. Maybe this isn't formally, let's just say, totally illegal, but I guess you don't care that you make through this law a large number of dissatisfied people, I guess you care that this job is done not only for the satisfaction of the government that's going to be doing this, not just for the satisfaction of all the citizens who are going to use this corridor, but also for the pleasure of people whose immovableities are going to be taken to build this corridor. You really need to be extremely careful there. I'll give you an example. It was a long time ago, according to the Expropriation Act, which was much better and fairer than this, when the fee was determined in front of the body leading the expropriation procedure. I personally did an expropriation in the municipality of Zemun, and I think it was maybe back in 1996, 1995, and then it was something that was clearly agreed that the KEPS conference would be held in Belgrade, and the KEPS was the predecessor of the OSCE, and then it had to be built at the cost of life, as soon as possible, to build that road from Surcin to the airport, and it was supposed to serve as an auxiliary runway, so it was built and so wide, etc. Then the representatives of the City Building Office came with documentation, with ownership papers, it was just necessary, we in the municipality invited all these owners, there were about a hundred and a few people and on the spot they gave consent to expropriation. The Office's representative denied the right to appeal, they gave up the right to appeal and immediately, at the same time, concluded settlement. They really got a serious price, maybe even something over the market, not something dramatic, but a serious price, certainly not below market value, and no one had any objections and no one filed a complaint and the expropriation job completed in a week. This is a really bigger route, bigger surface, but if you don't do it like that, you won't do the job. You know, if you say you have a rightful solution, you will quickly achieve a judicial solution, and if the owner complains, you will make sure that the solution quickly becomes legal, that there is a reason why he does not have the right to appeal, he goes to court, and you say, we have a final solution, we go into possession. Don't do that. That's not good. Believe me, you'll speed up the process if you accept that you're working this way. One serious remark that we have on this law is Article 17, this last position, where you said that when selecting a strategic partner and concluding a project and construction contract of the Moravia Corridor, as well as when selecting professional supervision of the performance of works, regulations governing the procurement process are not applied. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, this is absolutely unacceptable, even if we do not have an affair with Bechtel, we cannot accept that such a serious business and such serious resources are being invested without public procurement. You're sworn by all the authorities that since you took over the authorities that there's no more problems with public procurement, there's no more affairs, no more that I don't know how many states you save because everything is done in public procurement. We, Bogomi, also had here last week a report from the State Auditor and some other independent bodies of the Fiscal Council, I don't know yet the Competition Commission, so everyone made a comment to the government, to local self-government that many jobs are done without public procurement. That's not good. When it comes to Bechtel, I have to remind myself of what we started as a topic last year, when you, I think, signed an agreement with Bechtel on 15 October, or it was before, was not yet a Memorandum, and when we came to that agreement, when you actually signed an agreement with the representatives of the US Embassy, we then got that agreement and here the president of our party asked the Prime Minister, we gave her a look at the agreement, he asked if she knew that the government had approved the signing of Zoran Mihajlovic of that agreement, Ana Brnabic said she had seen it for the first time. Everything else written down. You said then that we Serbian radicals had something against you, and then we make up some stories to hurt you. It has not been two, three months, a public contract with Bechtel appears the same as we have challenged you and said that you and Scott have made it without the knowledge of the Prime Minister, according to a statement by the Prime Minister. That's when we said it's a public secret, everyone's talking about it now that the job you contracted for 800m euros, that he could have contracted 500m euros with a Chinese firm, even some of our firms appear and appear in the media some who claim to do so for 600m euros. So, in any case, 300m euros, in our opinion, not in our opinion but in the papers, is the amount that you took from the Republic of Serbia's budget, gave it to Bechtel, whether Bechtel gave you something for it, whether Scott or not. This is a topic for some other organs. But if you'd done it legally and through a tender, then we could have talked about whether someone made a better offer, if it wasn't, this is not how we can compare it. We can compare what Bechtel was doing in other countries, what he was doing in Romania, what he was doing in Croatia, what he was doing in Albania, what he was doing under the firm, and that's what you tried, I think somewhere in an interview that I read that you said, that this co-operation is actually talking about our better co-operation with the United States. What do the United States have to do with Bechtel? Is Bechtel a state-owned firm? No, a private firm and it can't be what's on U.S. territory, it really has nothing to do with interstate relations. Why didn't you step up your relationship with China and take this Chinese company that would do it for a lot less money? We remind them that the Bechtel was having an affair in the construction of the Dubrovnik – Split highway, and then their assistant minister, after the discovery of the affair, resigned, and then built a road in Romania, and even representatives of the Romanian authorities then said that they had knowingly trampled certain EU standards to meet "Bechtel". We have no reason for Bechtel to be the firm, to do so. We wouldn't mind working either, but if that contract had happened in a legal way. The worst part is, Mrs. Mihajlović and fellow MPs, the worst part is that you are in this law and that the majority of the assembly will pass this law, in fact legalize that 300m-euro theft received by Bechtel and which is probably shared, again I say, perhaps you, Scott, who we don't know yet. It'll come out someday.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55956	The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55957	Thank you for your comments, for your judgments and for your courts, although there are other institutions that the team should always do and I believe that it will always deal with what I do and what you do both now and in the future. So there's a lot of truth and half-truths with which you've had your exposure, and that's why I'm going to try at least some of it to answer, again not because of you, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because they should have all the information that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, that's what the Government of Serbia is doing and what the interests of our country is. So, to go with the law itself, I'm sure we'll talk about it in particular after you mentioned certain members of the law, but about the Expropriation Act, so there are things where I really think you're absolutely right. When we talk about the Expropriation Act, our thinking for several years is that it really needs to change, but we need to respect experience and practice and everything that we live through, especially when we talk about big line infrastructure projects. So there are things that have to be much more efficient, better and that need to give us that justice that you're talking about. When we talk about this law, we really tried to do everything in this special law to go through the whole process of expropriation but to really make it much faster. I understand everything you've said about compensation, it's one of the points where I expect the tax administration when it evaluates by its own unique methodology, if it has, to really be fair, because the biggest problems we have right now on infrastructure projects are precisely because of the different estimates that completely sometimes don't seem realistic. Of course, after that, all those problems we're facing. It is not the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to damage any citizen. It is not the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia to make dissatisfied citizens. So, the interest is that through this law and through this infrastructure project, we make the highway fit all standards, Serbian standards, international standards, all our laws, but to allow us to be faster. Of course we'll talk to the citizens. Of course, we will try to make sure that everything we solve in the field of expropriation is tied up, that is, to be resolved in the municipality itself, through the municipal administration, that we do not come into any other situation. We'll make sure no one gets damaged at all, there are other institutions that will, I believe, help us. You also mentioned "Serbiad", why they are, among other things, law and gravel. I can't tell you the correct answer to what you've been talking about and talking about gravel, but I think it's kind of common sense, so, yes, we're really going to have to solve it. Maybe now's the time for this law and this project to get rid of it now. It's definitely a matter of several ministries. These are things that must not leave the citizens unsatisfactory. Maybe now's the time when we'll be working on it. I will try to see how this can be solved with my colleagues in the government, but from the point of view of this law, we will be guided by the registered owner of a certain cadastrian plot. When you're talking about Article 17, I'd just like to remind you that we are now at the beginning of a new investment cycle, that for the past few years we've also been finishing, which has started some new projects in infrastructure. I must admit that almost 70% of infrastructure projects are based precisely on international strategic agreements, i.e. international agreements that we have defined with the People's Republic of China, Azerbaijan, Russia, Turkey. These are all countries, i.e. companies that came from those countries where we came to a contract with direct negotiations and started or are already in the process of many works. Preljina – Požega among other things that we started two months ago, is also on the basis of a direct contract, without public procurement and in line with the international agreement Serbia has with the People's Republic of China. It's not the only share, it's a lot of the shares we're doing with those states. So, we're interested in starting work on all corridors as soon as we can, we're interested in making all the preparations, we're interested in working with the best companies in the world, whether they're in the east, in the west, but to be the best, and we're interested, so we're finishing these projects. As far as I'm concerned, so all of these projects I mentioned in the infrastructure, from Obrenovac – Ub, Ljig, Ljig – Preljina, Preljina – Požega, Surcin – Obrenovac, here we now negotiate New Belgrade – Surcin, also with "Sirbisi", so all of these are projects that we are doing, just like I said, in direct negotiations with these companies, without public procurement, which I believe you also know very well. Here, this law is not the Bechtel law, so this law is not a law on any company. So this law is the law to create special conditions that will allow us to be faster, more efficient in starting work on a huge project that costs hundreds of millions of euros. Also, this law does not define the price, especially it has nothing to do with what you're saying in the price definition, this law is not here to confirm some memorandum, but to create conditions. It is incorrect full information and completely untrue, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has signed any contract, there is a big difference when you sign the memorandum, so you sign the contract. So, we have two memos, where under the full authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I did sign them, but we made a decision together at the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and they are not a secret, so they are completely public and we have talked about it, I think that one is from 4 October 2018, and the other is since 28 August 2018, one is called the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation in the area of infrastructure, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. And I don't know what's going on here, and I don't know why it's a problem, especially I don't know why it's an SRS problem, you've supported Trump and everything, so you wouldn't support that we have better relations in the area of infrastructure between America and Serbia. The second memorandum is the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation on the Construction of the Motorway project 761 Pojate – Kruševac – Kraljevo – Čačak, i.e. Preljina – Moravski Corridor, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the consortium of Bechtel Enka. The memorandum, I repeat, it may mean something to the citizens or not, but there is a huge difference, the memos show that the partners are interested in working on a particular project, and a very different contract is the agreement between the two parties, where both conditions and responsibilities are clearly determined and everything concerning one project. So, no signed, dear citizens of Serbia, no contract for Preljina – Pozega shares, or for the Moravski Corridor, there is no contract, so there is no obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or anyone when we talk about it. We are talking today about a law that should allow us to resolve, especially those preparatory things that are happening to us or the preparatory actions that are happening to us from experience on major infrastructure projects and to enable the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a special sublaw, where it will clearly define what are all the criteria that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is looking for, so that someone can do the Moravski Corridor at all. So, when we define these criteria, then bring in a sublaw act, then form a commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we'll see who are the interested companies, who want to work the Moravia Corridor. Our interest, I repeat, is that the best companies in the world do so. The other truth, which is heard, especially first of all by you, is about the price. So there is no single document on that, that the Moravia Corridor is costing 500m euros, so a team before the time when it is mentioned now, Verica Kalanovic etc. We had a story about the highway, and we didn't have a single moment of story about Morava and its tributaries, the telecommunications corridor, or, of course, at that time we had any changes to the Water Act, because of everything that was going on in 2014. So we need to know what's true and what's not true and we need to know what documents exist and what documents don't exist. No, not because of you, not because of me, but because of the citizens of Serbia. Did I do something that didn't comply with the law? There are organs that will take care of it again, and I don't think I have any worries. But what's important, which I think is important, about this law, is that it really isn't the first time that Serbia has special laws for major infrastructure projects or at all important projects, it's not just the South Stream, which someone mentioned, there's Belgrade on the water, there's Jellyzara, I think that the conversation is also about another infrastructure project. Is this the right way and would it be better if we had one law on capital projects within, these important capital projects, within which all these problems that we de facto see in real life, maybe, but let's talk about it, not today, but let's see if that might be a way to solve these problems, but the fact that we can't wait months and years for some projects to start or that some projects in this long time period are being done, is not just a matter of bargaining, it's a matter of plan bases and project technical documentation. One more thing, you mentioned a deadline for expropriation. It's to end a complete expropriation, but we have the possibility of working phasely. None of the only shares, so the Moravia Corridor, we're not going to start working until it's absolutely finished. Why this law? It is part of the expropriation done by Kruševec, but that central part where we've changed the course itself, which is very problematic, precisely because of Morava, can cause a problem in the duration of these preparatory actions, that is, everything we want to do. I've tried to answer a little, and I believe there will be an opportunity in particular to try to answer more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55958	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55959	As far as this part of the law is concerned, I didn't say that we were against the adoption of this law. I just said he could have been in some other form. Basically, there's not much misunderstanding. It's just a question of how much of this you're really going to say, and what kind of matches what was part of my debate, how much you're really going to do on the ground. But there's you, there's us, we're seeing each other, and we really want it because of people whose immovableities are going to be exploited, you know, there are some people, and I guess you could see through these jobs. You can pay with gold, he doesn't give his plot, his poem, his field, and I don't know what. But that someone has to suffer the fact that there's a general interest and that general interest is fine, but neither can you, because you're going to tell the Department of Revenue that it estimates as much or as much. What you said earlier shows that you saw on this corridor and different estimates, and it would be good to hire an independent artist, so that everyone has both a representative of the state and a owner, they have the right to place objections on the findings of the experts, and maybe that's the best way to get to some real price, not even, at the expense of the state, that might be a good way, but that's something you're going to do in practice. But I have in this article 17 and this last position is very interesting, where you say strategic partners will be, not to read everything now, companies or related persons established for the purpose of realising this project. What are these companies, which will be set up to implement this project? I guess there are all the elements, but there's already in society that there's no need for something special to be established in the country. Here I am ending, colleague Arsic, only, of course, when it comes to Behtel, we will never agree, we can talk about all the other members and members and our views, but for Behtel we will not agree. Yeah, we supported Trump, so Hilary Clinton, who you and some of you supported, because they did, because they were smart, and they were supported by Scott, etc. We continue to argue that Bechtel, which should not have been introduced to these jobs, continues to claim that 300m euros have been disputed and disappeared on the path between the government, via you and Scott, to Bechtela. So that's something we can't agree on. And you say yourself, there are competent authorities, it would be good if they started doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55960	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55961	I cannot allow, again, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that anyone is saying that 300m euros have been lost on the way from the government to this, to the fact that this is related to any member of the government, including myself, because I think it is destroying the reputation of an important institution, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before making any decision, is not personally made by any minister, but by many institutions, many committees, so a decision is made on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is one serious, responsible institution and "not being shot" with dozens, hundreds of millions of euros, but taking care of every dinar, every euro we need to spend on building any road, any railway. So that must be known and I will always react as you react to other things, and so will I. There is no documentation, no papers, no contracts signed by this Serbian government with anyone in the construction of the Moravia Corridor, because our interest is to create legal conditions, our interest to be quick, our interest is to come best, our interest is to define conditions and criteria. They are not defined by Zoran, but defined by the institution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by all those who work in it, or by all the committees that exist in it. Second of all, there are no proposals, projections, contracts, pre-negotiations, anything on the Moravia Corridor from a previous period. Are there in the minds of some politicians who were then talking and having conversation at the pubs and today tell us if it could have cost this much or so, and left behind not a single mile of highway, I believe it exists. Is it Velija Ilic, is it Verica, that these are, whoever they are? Yeah, there is, but there's nothing behind them. Yes, behind us will exist all the way it is according to the law, therefore in accordance with the law, so that it pleases the interests of all Serbian citizens and that we end up with finished highways. No one here has stolen anything and I always call whenever the SRS says Zorana Mihajlovic took, stole, whatever she does, one euro, and not 300m euros, I call on the competent state authorities to deal with Zorana Mihajlovic, because then she is not normal. So, if anything could have been done at the expense of Serbian citizens. So the authorities are doing their job, I'm doing my job. I am authorized here in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to present today an important corridor, and citizens of Triestenik, Kraljev, Kruševac, Cicevic, Mrčajevac, can see who is against the corridor and who is for the corridor. All other actions let the competent institutions do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55962	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55963	There's no reason to be nervous. There's no reason to yell. We're talking about a serious law. It is true that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a serious body under the Constitution, and as realistic as this is a matter of assessment, it is a matter of political assessment and of course the fact is that the Government is made up of ministers. This serious, excellent, best government had Minister Radulovic, what do you say about him now? She had Minister Verbic, what about him now, she had Minister Vujovic, what about him now? We follow, we live this life and this political life as you do, and now you can't do that to some flossulas -- the government is a serious organ. Well, every government is a serious organ and the previous government in which there was a thief number one Dinkic, Labus, Vlahovic, Djelic. Put them all under number one, because I don't know who would be in front of which, and it was a serious government, because the government as an institution is serious, but the government is made up of ministers who can be both serious and non-serious, both professional and unprofessional, and honest and unfair. The government must suffer, or members of the government must suffer, that the representatives of the people, the MPs tell them their knowledge, their data they have, besides that agreement that you say never existed, we shared with journalists and I repeat, I personally took away, Ani Brnabic. Vojislav Seselj asked - do you know about this? She said no, I saw it for the first time. So nothing's made up, it's all in front of the public. Let me tell you, your cooperation with the American ambassador is something that stings your eyes, is something that bothers you. Just yell, you'll be yelling at the opposite very quickly, just haven't been notified yet. Dalkle, it is inadmissible, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that what happened when you signed that Memorandum with "Bechtel", that Kyle Scott with you, shoulder to shoulder stands in the government of the Republic of Serbia, hold a conference and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia says Kosovo is an independent state and that you follow it with a broad smile. Unacceptable! At that point, he had to leave the country as a non-grat person. But these are your personal relations, these are the relations of the president of the state and that embassy, but slowly, everything will slowly come to the right place, to the right thing, and you are getting closer, not personally, but many policies of the SRS and it will be good for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55964	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55965	I'll be brief. So, first of all, I think you're right about one thing, which is that the assessment, i.e. the assessment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the only one that is valid. They are the ones who can see whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, each government, so the Republic of Serbia does or does not do its job, whether there are results or not, whether we have done 300km of roads, whether we have solved 600km of railways, whether we have the fastest growing airport of Nikola Tesla in the region, whether we have raised Nis, whether we are doing new roads, whether we are going to start four highways this year. That's all the results, say, infrastructure. Serbian citizens are in all elections and I hope and believe and next year in parliamentary and local elections will see who worked. So, first of all, SNS and its coalition partners and the president of our party. On this basis, we run the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, we have a responsibility to the citizens, and you are absolutely right. We'll see what kind of assessment Serbia's citizens will give to your political party, I wish you all the best, but for now, somehow you seem to be below the censorship. On the other hand, let me also tell you about the citizens of Serbia, even though I keep quiet for a while and listen to that perception as -- Zoran is an American man, this other is a Russian man. No, we, first of all, are citizens, I am a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, so I work for this country and I am in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, my party has chosen me to run certain resolutions and I work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, so, from all I know, I guarantee that you have met many times more, both with American embassies and other embassies, than I have officially had meetings in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the past seven years. So, don't tell the citizens how great and wonderful you are, and that's where Zorana's American spy or works with the American Embassy, which is bullshit. It doesn't matter, I believe that you are not working outside the interests of the Republic of Serbia, that you work solely in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, whether you are in the US, Russia or any other embassy. I also agree with you that the subject should still be this law. Let's try to make it right, if you think something inside this law is wrong and that it can be corrected and that it is good for all citizens of Serbia, regardless of which political option Serbian citizens support.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55966	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55967	Serbian radicals certainly did not go to the US Embassy, nor to the British Embassy, were some while they were Serbian Radicals and while they were in the phase, while they were making them into these now, but therefore, whoever the Serbian Radical was not going there, but it is not good for you as a minister in this way to speak to the MP, but you have not offended me, so feel free to say what you think you need to say, you have the right to defend yourself, but when it comes to Bechtel, that you will have to defend yourself against some other bodies. There is no need for you to remind us whether we are below the censorship, whether we are below the censorship, that is also not the job of the minister, but we are not concerned with politics for censorship, we are dealing with politics in the interests of Serbian citizens. We are consistent in our political views, in our political agenda, and we are dealing with politics, among other things, to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia when there is a minister in the government who does not work in the interests of the people, who does not work in the interests of the state, who works in the interests of some other embassies, some other states. In a concrete case, therefore, it is not just us that we say it, the whole of Serbia knows that Zorana Mihajlovic, an agent of the US Embassy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why they're holding her, one day they'll find out. As soon as they're conditioned, they'll find out. There's a few things you know, but maybe it's not the right time to talk about every detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55968	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55969	Then I ask you to meet the competent state authorities, first, how you become an agent, and then how I'm an agent. The competent authorities, if they don't know that by accident, as you say, give them the paperwork, please. After all, it should also be your obligation in accordance with all the laws and by being a National MP. That's one thing. Secondly, the evaluation, I repeat once again, is given by citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens in some of the last elections seem to have given you no 5%, which I can interpret somewhere like this. So no wonder this politics and ideology didn't work out. The best of the SRS are gone. Thank them. They came to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55970	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55971	Yeah, I'm a folk MP and a graduate lawyer. The competent authority, primarily the public prosecutor, has an obligation, among other things, to monitor the work of the National Assembly and not only the National Assembly, I must read all the news, all the newspapers, all the portals and must react whenever any information that might be the subject of the hearing of the public prosecutor's office appears. We have no obligation to inform them of this, because we keep them informed in this way. The problem is that he's a public prosecutor when he's still a Nenada Chanka. It's from the time you were in that second option and it's still Zagorka Dolovac. I don't even know what his name is anymore because his wife isn't answering her phone anywhere. She's this state prosecutor who, among other things, needs to take care of such serious things as what we're accusing you of. It is a serious accusation, but it is truly amazing that we repeat so much that Zorana Mihajlovic is an agent of the US Embassy in Serbia and that Zagorka Dolovac is not responding or telling us to go public with some statement to shut our mouths or say, yes, you are right and it is true that Zorana Mihajlovic is what you are accusing her of. We're still hoping that the authorities will respond. You invited them yourself, so be it. It's good to get back to this law. I hope that this kind of debate will not be a reason, since it is obvious that you are somehow falling into the fire when we say this, that in another way you are looking at our amendments that are absolutely professional and intending to fix the law and that the application of the law is really in the interest of all Serbian citizens and in the interest of building this Corridor that is a need, but we cannot allow me to be after this Corridor to be a story like after the Gilas Bridge, etc. That's why we warn on time. Gilas stole nearly 300m euros in construction of that bridge. He's 300 million on the bridge, you 300 million on the Corridor, so where did we get more millions? It's just, it's late after. That's why we're warning on time. We're not only warning you personally, I guess we're warning the government. I guess the whole government knows, huh? The Prime Minister knows what this is all about. He can see. Since you say the best have left the SRS, does Anna Brnabic come to you officially as a member, your serious rival? It won't be easy for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55972	The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55973	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Minister with associates, today we are talking about Corridor E-761, i.e. the Pojate-Preljina section, which is of exceptional strategic importance both for the Republic of Serbia and for the whole region. First of all, we are talking about increasing competition and in general improving the economy in the Republic of Serbia. The construction of this Corridor expects a better connection with international traffic, and thus greater economic and social development. As you pointed out at the outset, the greatest importance of this Corridor is connecting within Serbia and making roads and networking our population. The strategy for the development of rail, road, water and air traffic puts a special emphasis on the network of public roads. The country's strategic interest is defined as forming a three-way network of Serbia, Belgrade, Pojate, Cačak, Požega, Belgrade, and in the coming period is to improve the direction of E-761 - Pojate, Kruševac, Kraljevo, Cačak in order to connect Corridor 10 with Route 4 and connect Belgrade and the southern Adriatic. So it's double the importance of building the Moravia Corridor. The overall goal is regional integration and development of the region's economy to cover this Corridor. Otherwise, this project should connect all major settlements in the region, which is very important, but also smaller places, from Cicevic, Stalac, Kruševac, Trstenik via Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljeva and Cačka. We've already heard that this is an area where half a million inhabitants live with more than 20,000 small and medium-sized enterprises with 10 business and one free zone. The region's economy is expected to benefit multiplely through new employment and engagement of local businesses. Also thought of making time savings, making less transport costs, as well as improving security on Serbia's highways. A modern, modern and safe highway is the future of our country and a step forward towards a modern market, and connecting parts of the Republic of Serbia with international corridors 10 and 11 is a prerequisite for economic development, and hence for a better standard of living, which is in general the goal of this government and is the goal of taking such a policy. Regulations which are relevant to the draft law regulate the field of expropriation, the area of planning, design, construction, public procurement and customs regulations. Well, as I would say globally, expropriation is really one of the biggest traffic problems, and I'm deliberately not using a broader term than a very busy car. It is also the subject of this law and therefore has its own importance, which is to accelerate the effective implementation of all infrastructure projects, above all, the establishment of public interest and individual expropriation procedures, mainly the reduction of deadlines prescribed by the current law on expropriation, as well as the use of any legal means which are not provided for in the material regulation. It is of particular importance that all deadlines are respected, and so far we have mostly had problems on other parts and on the procedure of regulating this bill for the overall scope of work on the project based on the choice of a strategic partner, with respect for the Constitution. What I do not think is highlighted is the importance and approach to international funding sources, not only of this, but of future infrastructure projects in Serbia. It is particularly important to include our public enterprises, "The Way of Serbia", "Serbia", then our institutes, the Institute "Jaroslav Černi", which aims not only to build the highway, but also to permanently solve the West Morava Basin. This project means work on the regulation of Morava and water streams, which will remove the danger of new floods in this area. By engaging local companies during construction, by increasing the number of services and trade in local self-governments in which works will take place, it will affect, of course, higher economic growth and this is one big investment covering road construction, among other things, river regulation, construction of telecommunications along the highway and this total share does not have such a small length. So the total share is going to be 110 kilometers. This is an affirmative bill and something that has a broader dimension, because we know that where there are no roads, where there are no infrastructures, we don't even have people, and since the government's strategy is to repair the country's demographic position. This is of great importance. I'm sure the largest benefit will have people who settle and are in the circle of this Moravia corridor, but it's also important every mile, not just highways, but even local roads, because there's someone living there. Speaking of western Morava, one of the questions, big questions, because it is important for the maritime district and for the citizens of the municipality of Svilajnac is a bridge on the Great Morava. He's already been mentioned several times, and I talked about it when we talked about the railroads. So it's the only bridge that connects the Svilajnac municipality, among other things, a small municipality, but in development, a bridge that was built after World War II and which seems to me to be the only bridge where road and rail traffic intertwined. Of course he can't do it all at once. Of course, the plans are big, but it is not a waste to mention every time and point to those traffic stops or those places that are our narrow throats and which are a problem in regulation, because we are talking about modern roads, modern railways and some new future for the Republic of Serbia. My fellow Members, MPs and fellow MPs of the SPS will be pleased to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55974	Thank you, colleague. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55975	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have the honor to remain remembered in history as the assembly of Parliament, which in this way, by adopting today's bill of law, at least in a small way took part in the construction of the Moravian Corridor. What the Moravian Corridor means for Serbia, we heard today from a lot of colleagues who spoke, and I will repeat again, the Moravian Corridor will be a bridge, i.e. there will be a merger that will be built in the centre of Serbia, which will connect the east and west of Serbia, which will make life easier for half a million residents who live there. In addition, we must not forget that in this part of Serbia is the centre of medieval Serbia, so the centre that guards our history. However, we must also turn to the future, that the number of 21,000 small and medium-sized enterprises currently operating in this part of Serbia, we must move forward in the future, and that number certainly in the future to be greater. In addition, there are six mountains, 20 monasteries and 10 baths in this part of Serbia. What the road and direction should do this time is certainly to bring new tourists, to connect Serbia with this part, because even we from Belgrade often go to Slovenia to the spa, to their spas, in addition to so many of our beautiful spas, but because of the poor infrastructure connection sometimes we feel that Slovenia and their term is, unfortunately, closer to us. As the minister said at the outset, this will not only be an highway for Serbia. This will be a road that will mean life for six cities in Serbia in the area where it will be built this time. Today, an extremely important bill is on the agenda, which is to establish public interest for the construction of the highway E-761, i.e. the objective of this law, is to make it possible to expropriate the parcels on the very track of the corridor as best possible. By bringing one of these, I can say freely, the Lex Specialist today is not the first time we've done it, but has shown good results in the realization of the project "Belgrade on Water", then projects such as Željara Smederevo. Over the past five to six years, much has been done to build road infrastructure. It's over 300 kilometers of highways. A lot of roads are rehabilitated, lots of bridges built, lots of tunnels built. Today, when we look at Serbia's map from the north to the south, we see that the north of Serbia is well covered by a road network. So, in the north, Vojvodina we have a how-so good connection. Then, we have an east road headed south for Serbia, Corridor 10, which is being provided from Belgrade to southern Serbia. He's done. So we have an eastern leg headed for Bulgaria and here in western Serbia we have a highway that goes to Cačka and later descends down towards Montenegro. What really is lacking in Serbia is this link between the East and the West, something that will bring together those people who live there, which is about 500 thousand inhabitants, create a traffic station and simply make life easier. Something that exists today as a possible option is the Ibar Highway. However, all of us, I believe, at least once have passed and we know what the Ibar highway is and what state it is in. First of all, it is not conditional or a little safe, and there are no real conditions for its recovery and that it is done in one way that these people really deserve. As I have already said, 500,000 people in this region of Serbia really deserve, first of all, a safe trip. We're aware of what it takes some time, any time, and especially when it's a highway through some city, we're aware of what it does for that city. Simply, he breathes some new energy, revives the city, brings new investors, opens new jobs. Make it so that these people who live here really and stay here, work in their places, create families, not all run to Belgrade in search of a better life or, unfortunately, decide to leave Serbia. Great example of what I'm talking about are cities like Nis, Vranje, Vladic's Han, Leskovac. These are the cities that Corridor 10 went through, and I'm free to say that he breathed a new life into them. We hope and believe that Corridor E-761, i.e. the Moravia Corridor, will do the same for Cicevic, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo and Čačak. How important highways for Serbia's development are, for example, data from Vranja when the municipality gave for sale of wages for the construction of a commercial facility, the municipality announced the sale of 60 million dinars. The ultimate price at which he bought the paycheck was 240 million. So four times, I'm free to say that four times this route has raised the value of land in that place. It's just one example of what, say, highway crossing means for certain citizens. As far as the project itself is concerned, as we have heard, the length of the corridor is 110km and the value, the estimated value, is about 800m euros. The project itself is divided into three shares. The first is Pojate-Kruševac, whose length is 26.5 kilometers long, the second Kruševac-Adrani 53km long and the third Adrani-Mrčaevci, Mrčaevci-Preljina 30.6km long. What is really important and what I really want to praise is what will be done parallel to the construction of the highway, which is the construction of telecommunications infrastructure and the construction of the waterway of West Morava. As for the construction of telecommunications infrastructure, I must say this is really about an extremely modern telecommunications infrastructure. I just want to mention that what we're doing earlier today wasn't a practice. We used to have a situation to expulse the crying for the road, build the road, then blow up the land for telecommunications infrastructures. This time it's done parallelly. So, in this way, first of all, time and money are reduced, and here's my suggestion: this is the way things are done in the future. Also, the other very important thing is the regulation of the waterway of West Morava, or the arrangement of the blue part. Unfortunately, we all remember in May 2014 when this region was particularly affected by floods and then new regulations came into force, new standards, which certainly required stricter standards in the area of water protection. For that very reason, the course of the corridor had to be changed, that the corridor did not pass through that blue area. However, it was not forgotten at that time in West Morava and the problem that happened, but this government decided to solve the problem once and for all, so parallel to this radio and the Western Morava waterway protection project, as well as its tributaries. The project planned an arrangement of 46km of waterways in West Morava. I know it is, and we all listen to these days that many of the opposition, Alexander Vukitch, are guilty and it's raining. But what he is really responsible for, as well as the Serbian government, are miles and miles of highways done, are dozens of open factories, are hundreds of new jobs opened, are new schools, new factories, new hospitals. Aleksandar Vucic is also responsible for Serbia's today having a national airline that I can freely say is a leader in the region. It is also responsible for Serbia's today having an airport that is according to all world standards and which counts travellers in millions. Of course, for floods and natural disasters, Alexander Vukic can certainly not be guilty, but here we have a situation that is certainly responsible for fixing what happened, which has not forgotten the floods in 2014 and will do something to resolve the problem for possible future generations. As for the planned value itself for building a 110km-long corridor, as I have already said, an 800,000-euro price is envisioned. Here, as a comparison, we heard today, the bridge on Ada, I have to mention it to remind everyone what it looked like. Gilas' bridge cost 400,000 euros, its length is 964m. So, the entire corridor, plus the Western Morava editing project, plus the telecommunications system, costs 800,000 euros in total, and the Gilas bridge costs 400,000 euros. Now, maybe some might say -- well, well, maybe the structure of the bridge itself, or building a bridge is different, maybe it's building differently, and then maybe it costs more. Here, I found one piece of information with which his magnificent bridge can be compared, which is one viaduct, I think it's pronounced Milo's viaduct, it cost something less than the bridge on Ada, 50,000 euros less, and it's two and a half miles long, meaning two and a half times as long as Gilas' bridge, and instead of Gilas's one pilon, it's six pilons, and the highest building in France, it's even higher than the Eiffel Tower by 23 meters, and it's something France prides itself, a building for example, unlike what we have in Belgrade, which is just a monument to a bad policy. I mentioned earlier that only the malicious can say that Alexander Wolf is responsible for what rains. But what he really is responsible for and what we see in Belgrade is a bunch of cranes, a bunch of construction sites. The construction sites are occupied by people from Belgrade, people from Serbia. These sites use material produced in Serbia. These facilities, which will be built on these sites, will later be equipped with furniture produced in Serbia. In this way, an entire employment chain was created for which Alexander Vukic was indeed responsible. We had an example of this kind of employment of Serbia when we were building Corridor 10. The construction of Corridor 10 took part in 20,000 citizens from Serbia, as subcontractors, as someone who produced material that was later used in the construction of the road itself. We hope a good employment chain like this will also be applied in the case of the Moravia Corridor. Today's law provides us with this, because one member is scheduled to use materials produced in Serbia, which will certainly raise our GDP. As far as the contractor himself is concerned, I can say there's been a major shift. We'll have a big company coming. This will certainly be very, very important for Serbia, because a large world-renowned and well-known company in Serbia will bring new technologies, new skills and experiences. However, in order for us to even be able to offer such a company a job in Serbia, we had to meet some conditions, above all, stable funding, or a stable budget. A stable budget provides a stable political climate, and with Alexander Vukic, we certainly do. In addition, it is very important to provide all the project technical documentation and all the permits, which, of course, everywhere in the world is a common practice, that no road can be launched without advance and obtained permits. For the first time, here, I can freely say that the Moravia Corridor will not begin construction until absolutely all necessary permits are brought in. A lesson about this, unfortunately, was learned on Corridor 10, when we had bad projects, when we had bad contractors, who later called for these bad projects and asked for compensation for their unhappiness. For this very reason, it has been working almost two years to modify project-technical documentation, so that we don't have bad projects, and later we don't have excuses for these bad projects. In addition to the more efficient procurement of documents, the adoption of today's law is definitely going on, because this way we will certainly not waste time in expropriation disputes. It is known that we are the land that fights the oak, we are struggling with signs on construction sites, we are fighting and we are destroying construction sites, and this certainly does not bring any good, or it just makes it difficult to work and takes time. What I must also point out is that the adoption of this law will absolutely not endanger the rights of the owner whose properties are being expunged. This law lays down the price and does not allow it to go below the market price. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would once again like to repeat that everyone in this hall today, in this House, should be honored to pass one of these laws, to be honored to be remembered in history as who at least somehow participated in the construction of the Moravia Corridor, which will be one of the most important directions in Serbia and one of the most important directions for Serbia. I can freely say that today is one big victory for Alexander Vukic, one big victory for the government of the Republic of Serbia, the building ministry, headed by Minister Mihajlovic. I want to congratulate you on that this time and invite you to endure in your promises and continue to build even faster and more. I've recently had a chance to hear some opposition leader say that we SNS are saying that we are all, all parties, as we are alike, in order to maintain power for as long as possible. Well, here, I want to say that we're not all the same, that we can never all be the same, we can't because we in SNS have someone to lead us, that we're led by Alexander Vukic's policy, and that's a policy that's never going to be thieving, or fascist, there's not going to be a policy of disorder and hatred, it's going to be a policy of work, order and, above all, of decent people. In the end, I would ask you, Minister, do you remember the last time you were on vacation? Do you remember the last time you got up after five in the morning? Do you remember the last time you spent all day with your family without even thinking about your job? The SRS are getting it. I guess you don't remember. (President: colleagues, I apologize, let your colleague finish her speech. Mr. Chairman, I don't mind, let them do their job. (Chairman: Please be polite. They can't be something they're not, they can't be polite, but they really don't bother me. I'd like to finish my speech. I don't suppose you remember, and do you remember the last time someone told you thank you for everything you're doing? Do you remember when someone thanked you for the bridges you're building, who will serve our children's grandchildren as well? You don't remember. I am now saying thank you, thank you for everything you do and I ask you to continue, to continue faster, stronger and better because Serbia and people in Serbia, decent people in Serbia, really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55976	Thank you, colleague Rakic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55977	Thank you for helping all these years to pass quality and important laws, which is exactly the SNS parliamentary group, as well as coalition partners, but let's be realistic, however, the SNS has received the highest trust of citizens and citizens of Serbia, which you have stood by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the President, with everything we do today and what Serbia really has 300km of new highways, 600km of reconstructed, rehabilitated railways, which we can praise that on Vidovdan we will open up to the third airport, an international airport, and that is the Royal Airport, equally important, and I mention it because it is important precisely for the Moravian Corridor that will start to work, which is important for that part of Serbia and that you are standing with your government and your president. What I'd just like to add, and about your exposure, is that in 2019 we start building, which means we've done pre-productions, most of the pre-productions, four highways, that is, early 2020 and the fifth highway. I don't know when Serbia in some previous decades managed to build, or start working one, two highways at the same time, let alone five. So that is what this government of the Republic of Serbia has succeeded with its president of Serbia and with you who believe and believe in it. So the construction of the Moravia Corridor begins between Pojat and Preljina in the summer. Construction of the highway to BiH, Sremska Raca-Kuzmin's share, will begin construction of the bridge. The construction of part of the Preljina-Požega highway has begun, a very important piece of work, but a piece of work that is important to us, because of Požega, we are going back to BiH and Montenegro. The construction of the highway starts in part, and part of the fast traffic station Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, also this year and early next year the fifth highway, which is the highway Ni-Medare-Pristina, the Nis-Pločnik section, 37 km. It is five highways that Serbia is starting to do because of Serbia and Serbia's citizens, because in this way we are sure that we can also achieve a greater inflow of investments, new jobs, and all that, I believe that all politicians are involved in politics, all political parties to their policies and ideologies, and above all in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55978	Thank you. We're moving on with our work. We are going according to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in principle search, and on the proposal for a law establishing public interest and special procedures for the realisation of the project of building the infrastructure corridor, highway E-761, the section of the Pojate-Preljina, as a point of the 2nd agenda. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55979	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, gives a real signal to the highways and shows that he has the power to deal with what is the biggest investment step for his society. That is why both this law and all other laws, which are heading towards the construction of highways, infrastructure projects, will have and will have the support of the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. As we've heard before, this law is not the only one to be passed by an emergency procedure, but it's kind of a rule that every time a law like this is passed, it means that the realisation and start of works on that highway is actually starting. So these laws are an act before the realisation and before the start of concrete works on a particular part, which brings us joy, because this share will also be used by not only these 500,000 citizens who are on this part of the highway, but all of us who are going through this road and all of us who are using this road to come or go to our homes. Also, it is very important to have a member who I saw in this law and who I liked in the way I did, given some experience I had before. that all those who have the authority to make certain parts, let's say, documentation etc. they need to work on an emergency procedure, i.e. they can no longer be obstructed when it comes to some types of smaller organs, such as local self-government or some others. It used to be present, so it's a good thing. I am pleased by this presentation of everything that has been done and what is planned to be done, especially when I see on this legend of projects, right after this highway of Pojate-Preljina, that the highway of Požega-Boljare is coming. It's the highway that we're most interested in, because it's the highway that will benefit us from Sandzak and how. Now I'm taking the opportunity, although the minister said something like that, does this legend mean that the next time we're going to pass a similar law is this particular section of the Požega-Boljare highway, or is this the next most important priority that the government and the ministry will be dealing with, and when can we expect something like that to happen, since we know that after these laws, essentially one of the arms of the highway is planned to the end and its concrete realization begins? I want to look back at this legend where the airports are and we're very glad that the airport in the King is about to open. However, we know about the project and certain agreements that a similar fate is experienced by the airport in Sjenica, so I am taking the opportunity to ask when we will have a project to realise the conversion of the former Dubnica military airport to Sjenica to one, say, civil airport, because that would also be of great importance to all of us living in this move? Of course, this airport in the King and how good it is for us, and how important, but I think that this one in Sjenica, and especially knowing that there have been some talks, agreements by several ministries and representatives of local self-government to move in that direction, so that the MPs we come from the area where this is and the entire population of Sandzak would be extremely important to begin with on this sketch of plans, the projects will be drawn up and that part, or that airport in Sjenica, and that the sooner we welcome that one law, which will be similar to this, comes here before us, which will treat this part of the Požega-Boljara highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55980	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55981	I'm just gonna give you some more information about that trip. Yes, Corridor 11 is very important to us and we will release the Obrenovac-Preljina section by August 15th, 103km of highway. We're avoiding the Ibar highway that way. In December the shares of Surcin-Obrenovac will be completed, and the shares of Preljina-Požega, we started doing this, as you know, a month ago and a little more days ago. The deadline for that share to be completed is maximum for three years. However, we are already constantly negotiating and talking, we have a designated working group of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the continuation of further construction, from Požega to Bolgari and we think that, sometime by the end of the year or possibly early next, we will have a clearly defined price structure, since this is a difficult, difficult share than Preljina-Požega. After that, we will also start talking about funding ways, because the estimates say that the share cannot be below 1.8 billion euros, which is very much. Since we're starting these projects and these highways with construction, then somewhere in the next year and a half to two we have room to think about how we're going to continue to finance such financial strong and difficult projects. As for Sjenica Airport and everything you said, the government of the Republic of Serbia formed the "Serbian Airport" company several years ago. Serbia's airports are now based in Nis. They're an operator for both the Low Airport and Morava Airport in the King. There'll be other smaller airports. Therefore, it depends on local self-government, therefore, which can make a request to the government, so that the company "Serbian Airport" may be thinking and that they are part of "Serbia Airport" and that we can find a way to invest in that airport. So, all the options are on the table, here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55982	Thank you, Vice President. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55983	Thank you, Vice President. I would first ask the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as all representatives of the government, not to discuss future departures on the parties from which they are appointed, because that is what we should all do, and I think that members of the government are paid from the Serbian state budget, not from the party's budget, and that they cannot at the Assembly's meetings to promote their parties. Let them enter the parliamentary benches, let them leave the government. The government should also treat all members and non-members of the party in the same way because in all elections, on average, about 45% of voters are abstinent. Secondly, can information, Vice-Presidents and Ministers be obtained, what are the amount of time and financial overruns per infrastructure facility that have been implemented in the period from 2012 to 2019 and why? Next question. Article 3 of this Bill states that the Regulation laying down the spatial plan of the area of specific purpose of the infrastructure corridor of the highway E-761, the Pojate-Preljina section, which was adopted in 2013, and I am interested in whether it is known how much the exemption of agricultural land will be, because we lost a million and a half hectares of agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia in 50 years and whether there are alternative routes of highways, one, two, three, and what are the advantages and why these routes? Thirdly, Article 2 provides that materials, equipment, etc., hired domestic performers in relation to which a design contract will be set, so isn't there a project for this corridor? Why can't Serbian project houses do a project? Why must foreign performers participate in the design? And finally, I'm looking for a concrete answer to the question -- is it or is no pre-negotiation with the US firm on the construction of this corridor? I'll continue to use time based on the minister's response.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55984	Professor, keep using, but you can't as someone on the list report using time from twice, as it is allowed by authorised representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups, so please use your time, and then, after the minister answers, you can pick up the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55985	Thank you. I would like to commend the Regional Secretariat for agriculture, water and forestry of Vojvodina, which intervened and provided a portion of the funds, though only one quarter, for the damage caused by the destruction of bee societies in the territory of the municipality of Kikind. Until today, however, we have not received an answer from Serbia's phytosanitary inspection who is the cause of this poisoning, and what has been done about it? Also, the Republic of Serbia fired 1,658 advisers in one day. Among them are 50 advisers who worked and did not receive compensation for the period until they worked, which is about five million dinars. Why can the Republic of Serbia not settle compensation for assistant advisers who have worked in the field of agricultural advisory services, and were mainly assistant advisers from the Vojvodina area? Not even accommodation costs, not travel expenses, nothing since 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55986	Thank you, Professor. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55987	Just one answer to one of the questions that I think is important and significant, and that's your question whether a pre-contract or a contract with an American company is signed. No pre-contract or contract with any company has been signed. We're talking today about a special law that needs to create conditions to go into the realisation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55988	Thank you. Professor, you can take your word for it, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55989	I've asked other questions. Can it be taxed to obtain information, if not now, then at least written, how time and financial overruns per individual infrastructure projects and the reasons for these overruns, time and financial, for projects implemented in 2012-2019? Citizens have the right to know, and so do we MPs, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55990	Thank you, Professor. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55991	No problem at all. You'll get all the information through the MP's question. I'll tell you one thing. From 2012 to 2019, it was not too late in the implementation of the projects. The delays started 10 years ago. What we have done from 2012 to 2019 is that we have accelerated, because we have completed previous projects that have been late for more than 10 years in some previous structures. By each section, we will deliver through the parliamentary question, or our answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55992	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55993	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the roads. Either we find a way or we build it. There's no third. We searched for the highways of those who fell into honey, those before us. We were looking for the roads of Gilas, Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, but we didn't find them. The only highways they built were highways to their pockets. It's true that parties use folk money. Today, ruling parties use money to build highways, a physical traffic station, and they build highways toward their pockets. They were big exporters. The money that was intended for the construction of highways, and the party led by Đilas, Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and other black devils, all their highways of money led to their pockets or Kukova, Devicanska and other islands. They were the biggest exporters of our money. Ours, that's where I think of the money of the Serbian citizens. Since we didn't find those roads, we had to build them. They left not only the people without roads and traffic, but without perspective. When they were getting into honey, they were leaving the peline to the citizens. So, without a job, fired, there was no need for workers to travel to the factory, there was no need to export goods, there was only a need to import. They left people with no dignity, no pay, no pay. They left people with no life. Since 2001, 15,000 died during their rule, and today they are killed as a result of construction roads. Fifteen thousand people were killed in a car accident, not only because of the driver's mistakes, but also because of a lack of highways. The largest Serb sites are Jasenovac, Jadovno, Ibarska highway, and Šumarica. Fourteen thousand people lost their heads because someone didn't have the strength to use international loans, to use domestic funds and make traffic and to reduce the risk to life and health, not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but the regions, Turks, Albanians, other nationalities travelling through Serbia. They left us with no revenue from transit. To leave time to the great knower of the rural roads, Milija Miletic, I will conclude that we have come down from your path that led to hell, from a road that leads nowhere to build roads and get somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55994	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55995	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, my fellow Members and colleagues, I will first look back, or I will say something more about the concrete advantages that the Moravia Corridor brings us, or what we get in practice. What's simple, what we see at first glance, is that now that we've crossed the car section from Pojat to Preljina, that would be about two hours. By building a highway on this section in the length of 110 kilometers of that same stock, or from Pojat to Preljina, we will cross in less than an hour, almost double and more savings in time. Also, construction of a new traffic station guarantees greater traffic security, as this will also make August better. The Moravia Corridor will connect three districts – Raški, Rasinski and Moravika district. A large number of companies have their seats and operate in this area, as has already been said and it is logical that better transport infrastructure will have a positive impact on the business of these businesses, will increase their competitiveness on the market, but this area will also be more attractive to attract new investments. I come from the Kings, and I have to remind myself that only last year in the King is the Euro One textile factory, as well as the Leoni factory, and only these two factories need to employ more than six thousand people. I point out this because the King suffered a difficult period after privatisation where great giants were extinguished and now, finally, after many years in the Kingdom, new jobs are opening up. This will strengthen this part of Serbia, and I think that after many years it will begin to record an economic rise. In addition, during the performance of the work on the Moravia Corridor, I expect a domestic construction operation to be involved and it will be a good wind in the back of our construction companies. Positive effects are turned on both manufacturers and construction equipment vendors. A large number of tourist destinations are located in the part of Serbia passing the highway route. It's, first of all, mountain centers and spas. I will note that on this route there is a spa that has the largest number of overnight stays in Serbia, the most visited spa, that is Vrnjačka Banja. We all know that experience has also shown that every penny invested in infrastructure, which relates to tourism, is to return multiple times. The Moravia Corridor is particularly important because this connects Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. This will complete the traffic infrastructure in this part of Serbia. I will remind you that in a few months, as you have already announced, half of August will be completed on the highway from Obrenovac to Ljig, and when we consider that part of Ljiga to Preljina has been completed, this way we will get a share of the highway in Corridor 11 in office of 102, 103 km of highway. The works started to build a section from Preljina to Požega. This is a particularly important share, first of all, that of Požega further raves into two parts. It is the first step towards Montenegro, according to Bolari, and it will be part of Belgrade's future path -- the South Adriatic, and the second one is short on Kotroman and will be part of Belgrade's future highway -- Sarajevo. I will return to the importance of the Moravia Corridor, and within two days in the Boats near the Kings, the Morava Airport will be opened. It's especially important for the residents of this neighborhood. Work on expanding the runway and extending it has been completed, so we will now have one round continent, one quality air, railway and road infrastructure in central Serbia. Article 1 of this Act provides that all procedures to be carried out are to be considered urgent. I particularly point out that, because this is why all public enterprises, state authorities and local self-government will have to issue acts that are in their jurisdiction without delay. This is very important, because in this way we will prevent the construction of the highway from slowing down in that part of local self-government, public enterprises or other state bodies. Also, the bill predicted that the expropriation procedure should be regulated, I would say, in a fair and precise way. The immovable property owners to be subject to expropriation will be compensated at least in the market value of the immovable property subject to expropriation. Also, the role of local self-government in this process has been defined, and I think it is in the interest of local self-government to be as efficient as possible, to finish that part of the work that is on them as quickly as possible, because they will have the biggest profit from the highway. Finally, I must stress that it was very important to make sure that the project was in line with water protection standards, given that one part of the highway is passing through, that is, there are some points of intersection with the blue areas. Of course, if we can't already influence weather disasters, then we can influence and reduce the consequences of that in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55996	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55997	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with associates, at the very beginning, I will make it very clear to the SPS MP's position that we in the Voting Day will unequivocally support this law. In short lines, in the name of our Socialists, I'm going to make some views that I think can be useful, both in terms of legal interpretation of the law and in terms of something that might help you, in order to finally lead this law to the goal, which is that, as a lex specialis, it can be fully realised within very short periods of time, as is usually defined here. What initially appeared as a dilemma is the constitutionality and legality of this law. This dilemma was partly removed at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as this same Committee assessed that this bill is not contrary to the legal system, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, since the Constitutional Court has the sole jurisdiction to assess the constitutionality and legality of the relevant act, anyone who suspects any non-constitution of this law may verify or remove his dilemma before the Constitutional Court. What is important, it is important to point out that we understand yours, that we say the necessity to approach the adoption of a lex specialis, because this law really has in the right sense all attributes of lex specialis, given the reasons why it is brought and given the need to establish public interest for a project of vital importance for the Republic of Serbia. This vital importance for the Republic of Serbia cannot be doubted, and we are fully in agreement when it comes to the necessity to pass one of these laws. As for the very provisions of the law, I think we can characterise them as positive. Positive both with regard to the expropriation procedures and with regard to the manner in which the expropriation is carried out. First of all, to start with what is essential, the expropriation is carried out on market criteria, which means that the immovable property owners that will be subject to expropriation will have full legal certainty, but not only legal certainty, but economic security that their facilities that are subject to expropriation will be compensated at the same time under market conditions. As far as the papers are concerned, I will refer to what my distinguished colleague, George Komlenski, commented on. You're introducing a legal institute that has never existed in legislation before, which is the Institute of Temporary Representatives. Indeed, in this way it is possible, by one - effective procedure, and from the point of view of the principle of economicity and rationality, and from the point of view of the principle which implies fairness in conduct, because where we have not so far had the application of this institute, we were able to apply the provisions of some other procedural laws, such as, for example, the provisions of the Law on the Procedural Procedure. However, we now have a very clear definition, a very clear norm of an institute that we have missed, and indeed it has been missed because, if as the owner is listed as a person whose residence or residence is unknown, in this situation this process problem is solved in the only possible way, which is the setting up of a temporary representative. In the Law of Prosecution, we have a power of attorney under official duty. An analogous to that, we have here an absolutely similar institute, or equivalent institute, because they have the exact same function and same powers. What might be a certain problem? It may be a problem to determine in a very reliable way that the person does not have a residence or residence, that his residence or residence is unknown. That, unfortunately, is often used by lawyers, so it later appears in the procedural sense of words as a kind of interference. I hope it doesn't happen in these situations and that it can, in some ways, be warned. What is also important to me is that local self-government is animated in this direction in order not to create a problem. Dear Minister, I hope you will agree with my position, which will not be pleasant when it comes to local self-government. The capacity of local self-government is not at the level that citizens want and what citizens expect from one side. On the other hand, education, when it comes to professional services, especially bodies dealing with administrative procedures, or administrative procedures, has not led to what we want, which is that professional references overcome all that can be an obstacle to achieving certain objectives, and our only goal here is to carry out expropriations effectively, to be carried out fairly, and to ensure that both expropriation users and those benefiting from expropriation are overly satisfied. That's why I'm afraid that certain local self-governments, which, no doubt, when we look at this map itself, will have a lot to answer for. The question is, what are the consequences if they do not respond to this task. Legislative legislation is such that there are no sequencings of adequateness. Alexandra, I hope that you agree with me, but there is also something else, there is the possibility that some other procedures that involve even adjudicating jurisdiction could be resolved in order to address the issue of vital importance, which is to implement the expropriation. So my suspicion when it comes to local self-government is not an accusation of local self-government, but rather a kind of appeal for local self-government to rise from lethargy, indignity, to rise from what has become offensive, and that procedures take place as prescribed. What, in a particular case, might be partially polymic? They're semi-ferrous short-terms. Here the deadlines are defined at a very short time interval, three days, five days and a deadline for appeal for eight days. Now, we also have after the appeal procedure a five-day period in which the second-degree authority should decide on the appeal. I, in my best interest, point to something that I think is very important. First, the three-day start-up period from the initial act to the decision-making process is very short. That is why I think it is very important that complete services, especially people who will be in charge of cases, not only educate, but to prepare for something very difficult, to collect evidence, to carry out a proof process, and most importantly to assess evidence, whether the evidence in the form of written documentation is adequate to treat them, whether they are similar to how they can be handled. If they are, we don't have a problem, pure logic. What if they didn't? Then the request is dismissed. Discard requires already slowing down the expropriation. Therefore, in a specific case, everything must be brought to perfection, and the perfection implies that no single element, which implies action in the administrative procedure, must be subjected to any violation of the law in the administrative procedure, the Expropriation Act, the Law on Law on Law of Law, etc. As far as the head of law is concerned, I really must be very grateful to express myself to certain provisions of the law relating to, say, the user of the property, I'm not talking about the owner, I'm talking about the user, who also belongs to the corresponding fee. Here we're not talking about a fee by market criteria, here we're talking about compensation if it's a building facility according to the so-called. building standards, i.e. estimated building value of the facility. Furthermore, what is also as good as the norm, so it is systemically well solved, is that, even in the process of legislation that is under way, we have, by some deep belief, a clear regulation that an expropriation procedure can be carried out, as well as in the case of conversion, i.e. the conversion of rights of use into property rights. Now, as far as the time limit is concerned, given that in the appeal procedure, as a second-degree body, the only competent and legally authorised body, which is the Ministry of Finance, decides. I need to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Finance is burdened with a huge number of cases, inexplicably by a large number of cases, it is now not thousands and tens of thousands, but significantly more, and the question is how to resolve the appeal procedure within five days, or end the appeal procedure and make a decision as expected in a relatively, or perhaps even a short period of time. In this direction, I hope the Ministry of Finance will step up its resources both human and functionally and materially, so that this job can be done, because this job really means urgency. In that sense, of course, we all expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government has justified, I say this not only politically, but by knowing the matter of administrative law and administrative procedures, that when it comes to emergency procedures and when it comes to so-called. That's what he's really doing. I hope that, in that direction, such practice will continue. For all this other matters relating to the procedural provisions of the law, I would not make any particular comment, given that the procedural provisions of the law are in line with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act and I do not think there will be any major problems. Also, the provisions of the Expropriation Act are perfectly clear, only the question of their practical application and who will apply them. If they are applied by those with appropriate professional references, they can bring it to their load, then we will have no problem. So that I don't go back to that dilemma, I'm going to continue something that's purely from the aspect of the economic justification of all of what we're talking about and all that's our goal. Our goal is to bring this law to the level of its practical application to be optimal, or optimally effective. The way or route of the road means what I haven't heard today from colleagues who have discussed, it's very difficult to define all the questions that relate to the realization of one of these, to call it, the mega-project, given two facts. First, no one here referred to the provisions of the Law of Ways, absolutely no one. The Law on Roads defines not only a road that will be under an asphalt curtain, but also a travel belt and a seat belt. In view of the fact that the travel belt has a certain area and length, then even more than that the protection belt, that means that the path pathway itself involves covering a much larger area than what is in prejudice or in the wrong picture of the population that expects it to be dealt with relatively quickly. Next, you're facing one problem that's inherited, and that's the unsettled condition of the catastra. You are the condition of the catastra trying to arrange, to bring him to what is necessary. This condition of the catastra implies that we have absolutely inadequate data, that we have even something that is not even listed in the cataster, and it has to be written in. I'm not just talking about cables, I'm not just talking about underground installations, I'm not just talking about this, I'm talking about a lot of other things, because we have local self-government that didn't even have a finger to move that the land that's in public property and that according to the Public Property Act should be registered on local self-government. And today, we are enslaved with such a problem in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You're a respected minister and you're aware of the facts and you're fighting that fact. I have absolutely no dilemma whatsoever to confirm that as correct. What's the next problem? I said that the provisions of the Law on Public Roads define the area of the road, not only by the asphalt, but also by the way that implies a significantly larger area, which will be covered by a path that is defined as a final, and we see it. What's also going to be technical, not legal, because I'm still saying this from the point of view of the profession professionally, exclusively from some legal focus, so I'm trying to be extremely constructive, of course, extremely well-intentioned. I think there will still be certain situations where we will have to consult other legal solutions and practices that have been present so far, when it comes to water streams and when it comes to solving so-called. sudden or unforeseen obstacles and occurrences that will take place during the performance of the work itself. It is very important, when we talk about the performer, who will be the contractor, with what references, how much capacity this contractor will have, etc. So far, the practice has shown that we haven't had any problems, I'm sure we won't have any now and the biggest benefits of this law are certainly benefits from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'll tie myself to the town I come from, and that's Uzice. Užice is a city that is investmentally dead, not thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but to some other circumstances, where investments have long, long not come, where the route of the highway that was in one idea solution through Užica has been moved on the highway, I speak the Belgrade-Preljina highway, which has been moved to the other direction, which is the direction across Sjenica, or Arilla to Sjenica, and from Sjenica to Bolaram. So, finally, Uzice gets something that will imply the possibility of an investment rebirth, which implies the possibility of affirming everything that has never been affirmed so far. Why? Because investors have not seen and recognised Uzice as their destination, i.e. their destination, because of their inability to use the infrastructure in an adequate way, predominantly travel infrastructure. I hope that now, in any case, it will be overcome and that it will be recognised, that all the potentials with which the Zlatibor County has, both economically, touristically and all others, will now be affirmed and that it will have exactly the degree of visibility that implies the arrival of people who will invest there and where the ultimate effect will be the employment of citizens, and certainly the economic benefit. Of course, not to be stereotyped, because you've heard it many times before, especially from these parts, that we also want to revitalise at the full capacity of Ponikva airport. I have no doubt that this will happen at all, but in principle step by step, which means step by step, because for now conditions for what is expected do not exist, but that does not mean that there will be no future time when circumstances are acquired so that exactly what we expect to be the airport of "Ponicua" really is the case. I have no doubt that this path is headed in one good direction and that it will also be realized. Finally, I want to support, of course, everything that has been proposed here, that, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that after such a long period of time, the unrealisation of a project that could have been implemented earlier is now finally resolved, that the infrastructure, especially the road infrastructure of Serbia, will reach that level that implies not only European standards, because we are now not so important to European standards, although we are going towards harmonisation, but it is important for us to satisfy the citizens' interest in an adequate way or not, because we expect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do something that means a better, and through this, I hope, will achieve it. That's why we're voting for this law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55998	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u55999	Thank you so much for your comments. You always participate with us when the laws come to parliament and indeed everything you say with due attention and we hear, and through amendments. I think I share your concern entirely when we talk about local self-government units, when we talk about their capacities, and when we talk about some of these professional references. That's also one of the reasons why, among other things, we have this law, one of many reasons. So far, and I believe that we will continue, the Ministry will work with all units of local self-government. We are the ones who are practically above their heads, we call, we ask, we hold meetings, we help them finish their jobs right on important infrastructure projects, we realize how important it is if something doesn't end. All procedures within this law are urgent procedures, if local self-government doesn't end, it will be the Ministry of Finance, but we will try, as I said before, to really end everything in the local self-government unit, with all our help. I believe that's what we'll succeed in. The bill that is before you is such that we believe that all we have proposed is something that we can implement in practice, aware of all the problems we have had on previous infrastructure projects and trying to avoid these problems. That's why we're proposing a special law like this now. That's where I'd stay, because everything else, we agree that we need to make this law happen, to keep doing infrastructure projects. The small is only an add-on to the airport "Ponikve". Therefore, a procedure has been launched for the Ponikve airport to also be part of Serbia's airport, which will allow us to try step by step on the part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to invest first and foremost in the approach to Ponikva airport, and then in all that is needed for an airport to also become, such as the Royal Airport in a few days, so that they are "Ponikve" because of economic growth, because of tourism, it is indeed the interest of the region. Thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56000	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, Dr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56001	Ladies and gentlemen, the theme of roads, especially highways, is my favorite theme to meet here in the National Assembly, because actually the path is one of the very important concepts in a man of individual and community. So by definition, the route is equipped for the movement of people and the transport of goods, but in the essential, cultural and civilizational sense, the notion of the road is much more than that. Well, we have a life path, like a line of life, so in a valuable sense we have the right way and the wrong way, or the wrong way. That's why the state and the government, which and who actually want good to their people, always put the theme of the road first. Where there are roads, where the path is good people go and come, and where there are no roads, or where the roads are bad people go, but they don't usually come anymore. That is why I am very pleased with this topic, especially when it is found before us in such a concrete sense where we have, so a decision to build another very important road for the whole country, and I will say that the path from Pojat to Preljina is also of exceptional importance for the Sandzak region, especially after building the road across Požega, where it will actually be the best and shortest line of movement towards the east, that is, towards Istanbul. In this sense, I am particularly interested in the overall idea of road construction, in the Sandzak area, because I belong to that policy which considers that the problems that have been accumulated in the Sandzak area over the past hundred years, more than 50% have just been caused by a kind of economic and social depression which has been significantly caused by the fact that the region has been bypassed by all important roads. That is why it is an inevitable topic and I hope soon and concrete, what has already been said about, and that is the highway Požega – Bolar. I am pleased that this is actually the next part of this project, at Corridor 11 and if I think we should find or explore additional funding opportunities and if there are no common ones, as so far, there is no need to rule out the possibility of concessions. If the government decides on a concession or an open question, I am willing to help myself, because I have co-operation and communication with very important investors who are willing to invest, invest through concessions and in this part of the highway. Therefore, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, one of the central points of its programme, actually set up highways, i.e. Sandzak, as a region of intersection of highways north – south, east – west. We're moving in that direction, and I think we're actually going to open up a whole new page inside Sandzak and in the whole Sandzak relationship. I belong to that policy that cannot agree that Sandzak, that Bosniaks, that Bosniak national councils, are used for various goals, often unfair goals, often other people's goals, where permanentally this topic is, here we recently had a topic of special Sandzak status, which is delegated two days before the Kosovo assembly session, we need to be superficially intelligent, so accept that it is quite an accident and that it is not a matter of certain directors. I do not want to remain silent on these issues, as I do not agree and condemn them, a favored relationship between the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government which actually, in some ways, contributes to such abuses in the Bosniak National Council. The bigger one should do his job, in accordance with the law, but we should all go in the direction of the Sandzak deblock, through roads, development, economy and, of course, Sandzak, as a region that will be a region of encounters, not a collision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56002	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56003	Thank you, Chairman. Soon as we had a debate in the afternoon, but there was one question left that I asked then, so I didn't get the answer, there were of course other questions, it's natural that it skipped out. So, the issue of Vojvodina, green on the map are planned projects, my impression is that there are few green planned routes in the Vojvodina area and I will repeat the question of the Frushkogorski Corridor, will we also have a special law for this project such as this special law for the Moravia Corridor? When was the beginning of the work planned? What is the estimated duration of the work, or deadline for completion? Will the project also go without public procurement procedures through direct government negotiations with a strategic partner? So, if I can get information from the current knowledge, it's indirectly related to the topic of the Moravia Corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56004	Thank you, colleague Gjurici. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56005	Well, I wouldn't agree with you to look at it that way and say there's not much in Vojvodina. I must admit that Vojvodina's previous decades have been quite well covered both in quality and roads and quality. Far from the fact that the Fruscogorian corridor is not working, the green thing that stands here on the map is planned projects. So, the Frushkogori corridor with all its shares is done, so the three shares, I think the project-technical documentation as well as the expropriation has been completed. There is a Memorandum signed with the Chinese company Sirbisi and a Protocol that was also signed, I think last year, also in China with the same company. There is a Working Group of both the Governments of Vojvodina and the Government of Serbia, therefore, common that works to define all the details needed to discuss signing. So the next step would be to sign a commercial contract, and then discuss with Exim Bank the way and conditions of financing. For us it is an important corridor because we continue, so, after the Frushkogorje corridor and after that tunnel that would work, which is not a bit simple and it is required, means Ruma – the Shabac section, and so the Shabac – the Share Password. The value of the French Corridor, I assume you know, is about 500m euros. I believe that when we are done with the negotiations you have soon, I cannot define when, because negotiations last and the working group of the Government works. But what's important on your part because it's our obligation, the paperwork ends. I've been corrected now, and for one section, the expropriation is complete, and the other section is being prepared and done. So we do that part that's our responsibility, and here we also negotiate with the Chinese company on all conditions. So away from it and as soon as it's standing here green, it's kind of standing and how it's going to work, because it's just a natural trail and a very important corridor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56006	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56007	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I've been selected from the SNS list, and I represent in the USS Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Professor Zorana, as always, I will say a lot of positive things because indeed you are in charge of building, all of these things that concern all of us in Serbia, in any part of our country of Serbia, whether this is the east, north, south, center of Serbia, everywhere, being done, built. It's important to all of us. This law that we are now talking about for all of us is very important because this corridor, what we need to do, is important to all people who live, in the same way that it matters to us in southeastern Serbia when roads are built and when traffic is built and everything our people live on, it's business, agriculture, and that way we move forward. All these things you said, construction, future construction of this part of the highway that will be important to these people, will be something that will amortize the problems that have been so far. They'll have more opportunities for economics, for agriculture, like I said. And I'm sure that this will produce results, that our agricultural producers will have better conditions to get to them, to leave, normally to transport everything they need, which is produced by our agricultural producers. Is that Kruševac, is that any part of our Serbia, where it passes this time. All this construction will be, as you have said, best done, with normal what we do, it's a prerequisite for it to go a little faster, the faster we say, the better to finish the job, because for all of us who live in any part of Serbia, every traffic station is important. I can only thank you for starting to build not only all our highways, but also for building railways now. The construction of the railway I spoke about was on its way back for a while in the work of Nis towards eastern Serbia. There'll be other parts. Once again, I, as a folk MP and president of the USS, will support all the proposals we are talking about right now, because I think this is extremely important for all the citizens of our Serbia. Good roads, good railways, airport, all a prerequisite for our country's better development. Southeast Serbia has a chance and is working to make it even more successful. Dear Professor, I will support all your proposals and this bill because it is necessary for our people living in that part of the road to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56008	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56009	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the draft laws are on the agenda for which the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure is relevant, such as this proposal that is before us today, we can talk about the trend of our country's development and modernisation. We can talk about the results of the policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government. Construction of the so-called The Moravian corridor will begin in summer. The highway will connect corridors 10 and 11, through central Serbia, where more than half a million people live. The public interest in building such a corridor is certainly great. The project of the construction of the Moravia Corridor covers the construction of highways, telecommunications networks and the model of protection of the Morava River and its tributaries. Why did I mention the policy of the president and the Serbian government? Because without responsible policymaking, without a stable political situation and a stable budget, without a favourable investment climate in Serbia, we could not even think of going into the realisation of such projects. About 800m euros will be worth the highway from Preljina to Pojat. The first benefites will feel in Chačka, Kralj, Kruševec, Vrnjačka Banja, Cicevic and Trstenik, as a regional highway will be unloaded that passes through populated areas. On the other hand, in these municipalities and cities there are many companies whose business will be facilitated, and the law will certainly contribute to attracting new investments. A lot of my colleagues will talk about the Moravia Corridor today, especially those who come from that part of Serbia. I finally want to thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic and the Serbian Government for all investments in the town of Nis. I'm glad you can see the big results of your ministry and the town of Nis. The airport, a railway tour around Nis, cheap apartments for security forces, and last week a cornerstone was laid for the construction of a new lamela on Majekovski Street in Nis, for the construction of new social apartments, new roads, new factories. Billions of euros have been invested just as Aleksandar Vukic has promised. We must not forget, 20 years, before 2012 Nis was not invested. The factories were closed, people were out of work, and the issue of economics and economic growth, the government was not interested in it, that not even a kilometer of highway, just as you said it didn't do today, and that we're not talking. Of course, the most criticism you will hear is from those who have had the chance, and they have done nothing for the citizens. Their remains, now associated with various Obradovici, Bastaci, show what their policy was, but also what their policy would be if they came to power. We open up construction sites, and they tear them down. But good citizens will soon have a chance to appreciate the work and behavior of all of us after all. Today when we see every headline in the newspaper, where we can see how it will invest in the city of Nis and what will be built, that means hope, means a big step forward in the development of the entire southern Serbia. I have no dilemma that this bill should also be supported, because it will mean a better life for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56010	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, I'm setting a break by 3:00. So, we'll be back to work at 15 o'clock. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. Next on the list is Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here the public should be aware that, in addition to the need for such a project, the necessity of building this Preljina-Ijat highway, this represents a new task in a series of Serbia's duties. Why are we emphasising this on Serbian radicals? So this doesn't turn out to be some kind of funds that won't come back. These funds that are invested in building this highway, as in most cases so far, are credit assets. Whether these funds will be provided by the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or by another bank, is now under question, which provides better conditions, but what is the fact that we can see from practice that these banks are also conditioned by investors. Here you take a step further when it comes to determining the performers here is obviously a commitment in some way to Bechtel. Bechtel is a large company dealing with design and engineering, but it is not burning to know that Bechtel is related to the US intelligence service. In Ecuador and Panama, one of the key roles was "Bechtel". Bechtel normally operates on the principle that it bribes and bribes leadership in certain countries, and then enters the political sphere of the country's life, and determines who will be in power, which in any case the practice has already been seen several times when it comes to American politics. Whether or not we can influence, whether or not the government can influence, is now a sign of a question and it is a sign of a commitment. That is, in fact, the question of the definition of the current government, and when we Serbian radicals say that, we do not honor the name and last name of why it is doing it, we are more on this side honoring a particularly resolute minister because it is too close to the American ambassador. A man who publicly says that Kosovo is an independent state, how can someone, how can morale allow someone to be in good relations with that man? But what you're going to do, that's the way it is. When you have colonial status, then you're completely different and you're treating both you and the others. What's very interesting is that it's completely excluded that maybe this stock is done by domestic tolls, or domestic companies that are trained to perform these work for a number of reasons. First, as I said, for the reason that the funder, i.e. the investor, conditioned it. Secondly, EU accession also implies European standards. We don't have any more travel companies that meet those standards. Third, what should be reminded of anyway, is that and what little is left of the trained travel companies and that's brought to the beggar stick. The best example is this particular section of Corridor 11 highway in part of Ub-Lajkovac, where we are witnessing that information is served in public as everyone thinks it is right by free interpretation. The word of the profession, when it comes to the construction of that stock and the regularity of that stock, says that the moment the share was built, it was handed over to the management of "The Ways of Serbia" and in a period of several years it was not at all working to maintain the share. It is ultimately the institute headed by Branislav Bane Ivkovic, a professor who is fully founded in the profession. That's what all professional people say, and even these independent engineers, but we also have an opinion when it comes to civil servants, and in some ways those who work in the CIP, whether it's under pressure, which is the opposite, which they say, are not adequate materials, and then man can't believe what extreme it is when it's said it's made with clay. Well, clay is building material, too. If you release the clay from the water, you have good construction material. That's what a colleague of mine knows, who's in the line of work. But if you leave something to the teeth of time and the water to carry, to grow grass on that stock, then it's expected to fail. What happened? It happened next. Uzica's roads, which worked the stock, were forced to admit their mistake, so as not to activate their guarantee to threem euros. They didn't want to. They didn't want it because of the company ratings and, after all, they didn't want it because people have been doing it for years. They worked on other parts of the highways and other parts of the highways and at all on the construction of the travel industry and had no acid and now for some principled reasons, after all, and they refused to accept these conditions for professional reasons. They activated the three million guarantee in such a situation they could not withstand the additional pressure. It's the whole story of this part of the travel operation that was doing that section of the highway. We instead of potentiating domestic performers, instead of potentiating the domestic industry, we further, forcing foreign performers, forcing companies multinationally, destroying what little remains. We have an example here, in addition to all these provisions that involve a special law, that all materials imported for the purpose of building this time have been released customs and VAT. Wait, you have books, volumes of written experiences working with a company called Bechtel, where it is said that by entering the Bechtel market, it destroys domestic production. You have Panama, you have Ecuador, you have a number of countries where it's proven. Do we need to live in hope and expect them to potentiate domestic construction operations? They won't let us be here in the clear. Even, moreover, these are the conditions which are additional conditions to all these privileges that they will have. Couldn't a tender have been called, so let's see if there's any other companies coming forward? Well, even though it was promised, the preliminary one made a promise, so the memorandum was signed, it should have been based on the experience we have with the Chinese. No, it didn't. Why didn't it? Because there's one part of self-will. Here's where your will is. On this Ub-Lajkovac section, the resolute minister himself sent to do it again, gave Zvonko Veseinovic. A man has never done that in his life. He better hires the Chinese. The minister thought she'd be courting her superiors. Meanwhile, relations between Zvonko Veselinovic and his superiors broke down, and we are now in a position to bring that stock down to the ground. This is contrary to the profession, with sound logic, with economic logic, it is 10m euros. We're like the richest country. We're investing 80 million credits here, that's an added billion. We have a finance minister, who explains to us that Euro bonds, that this is positive for us, we sell bonds with interest of 1.6% per 20 years, which we have to return a billion euros and say – that's good. We're in charge of a billion euros, and we're in debt here for 800 million and that's good for us. That's what a man can't understand. What kind of logic is that? Media processing the public, so it always comes back as a boomerang.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56013	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56014	I understand that the SRS is against the construction of many roads, or at least the construction of this Moravia Corridor, you have already explained it in many ways, but in order for the citizens of Serbia to know what is going on and that we would not really listen to the truth and half-truths of you, because it is really too much, then I should say the same thing. So this is what Ub-Lykovac looks like. That's what he looked like before the Ub-Likovci came to life. Ub - Lykovac is a 12.5km section on a very important Corridor 11. It's a stock that's failed. You can say it wasn't maintained or it was, I tell you it was, but even if it wasn't even maintained, it's amazing that it failed and that the question is why is it happening on Ub-Lykovac. Then some of the professional people, I'll admit it, you're not in that area either you or I, so the construction college, so you as a tech engineer can't quite know all that, but here I'm saying, you're a great expert, I'm not, so the government of the Republic of Serbia has asked the construction college and all of our Serbian domestic experts to look at it, to explain to us what happened on Ub - Lajkovac. First, how it's possible that she was so expensive and that she fell apart and had cracks. Well, a rescue project was carried out that was verified by the same construction college, with the same thing, among other things, engineers you mentioned, our Serbian, who made it very clear that the path was not well done at certain points, there are 13 points a total of 2.45 kilometers and that it was made believe or not from clay. The domestic companies that did this, unfortunately, I have to say, "Planum" and "Pussy". The "Planum" is usually a company protected by the SRS, because when Ljig-Preljina company worked, the home company "Planum" had a job and had a job, and then she worked tunnels on that stock and did the wrong base for tunnels, which is why the tunnels were in the background, so the way they are, then Seselj, your president explained that it was the best company. I don't know why you're behind companies that don't do anything good. It doesn't matter to us whether it's called "Planum", "Uzice", "Energoproject", it's important for us to do it in accordance with the contract and with quality. After that, these domestic companies that did Ub - Lajkovac, of course, refused to make a recovery, but they showed up on the stock to take pictures of it and to serve them later on for court proceedings, because they know they will be sued because you can no longer build roads and highways from clay in Serbia. You can't do that, you've been doing this for 20, 30 years, and then you've been through what kind of maintenance you've put bitumen into those holes and then the citizens of Serbia were driving in these paths. He can't, so that's the end of it. Now, that was the story of Ub-Lajkovec, which is a very bad thing, because they did domestic companies, and it's a shame that certain domestic companies definitely have problems, which doesn't mean that we need to invest and help domestic companies. There is not a single contract signed by the Serbian government that does not clearly define the participation of domestic companies within the contract, whether it is contracts with Chinese companies, with Azerbaijani, with Turkish, with Russian companies, and tomorrow with any other company. When you talk about the Serbian government tasking to give money, let's say, to the Moravski Corridor, the same conditions and the same ways of building Obrenovac-Ub, Ljig, Preljina - Požega, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. So now I mention the shares that are being built by Chinese companies, which are being built by the Azerbaijani company will be built, say, Ruma-Shabac, Sabac - Loznica or, for example, by Russian railway companies, the same conditions and the same way is being applied and applied here. Therefore, when you speak of the worst Moravia corridor, it is as if you are talking about Preljin-Požega, Obrenovac-Ub, Lajkovac-Ljig, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica in translation, in the end and Fruskogorski corridor. I don't know why you're against road construction, but the citizens of Serbia will be able to judge when the time comes to vote for you or for someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56015	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56016	It is difficult to conduct controversy with someone who says in advance rules out the possibility that anyone besides him for the construction of highways is under the impression that only the resolute road-building minister and those who are party-defined as a minister are all against it. It's from your exposure completely clear. If you're referring to that tendency to convince the public of the argument that the SRS is not correct, then you're wrong. First, Ub – Likovac is a 12.5 km share. It's a path made from field to field. It is a 70m-euro road, 73m euros is a final figure. It's a road that started to work without the necessary resources, it was done by Boris Tadic, and the resolute minister was, as I recall Milutin Mrkonjic and that road was finished, only that the connection from Ub on that road and the exclusion on that road and the exclusion for Lajkovac was only close, don't hold me by the word 300,000 euros, to invest. That road, the share that was built, was handed over to the use of Serbia's roads. The minister just can't tell things apart. The moment the performer passes the way, when the supervisory authority finds that everything is fine, it all goes into the jurisdiction and responsibility of Serbia's roads. How can you claim that this stock was maintained when the grass came out, we all saw on TV, so what is maintained can't come out. The water can't make such a mess. What you take for granted is the right to understand everything without knowing anything, that's your problem, but you can't deny your expertise. Branislav Bane Ivković, a professor at a construction college or at architecture, is a man who has an agency and his professional opinion, all other opinions are under your pressure being extorted, but you know what, nobody's till dawn, you'll be gone, too, so you'll see who did what. After all, if you were right, you would not be sued by "The Ways of Užice" and "Planum", or the State, not you, but you carry both moral and material and ultimately political responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56017	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56018	Let's just do it one more time, so it's clear. I have no idea, and it's less important, it's more important what the waist says. The waist says the road failed without traffic being used. What do you think, we're making paths out of pudding, i.e. that some of us had made roads like this before, so that the roads would fall apart? It can't. So, the road is made, unfortunately, of clay and it's a big shame for all those who have allocated money from the budget over 70m euros, for all those who have signed 15 annexes to finish that trip. They were making, and I couldn't agree more, a field trip to the field, that's what Mrkonjic did, and that's true, what to do, a man signed up, but whatever he was doing, making the way out of the mud is a disgrace to the domestic Serbian companies that did it, but we also need to know that not all domestic Serbian companies are like that and that we do that Serbian domestic companies are developing. That's one thing. The second thing, as far as any application is concerned, we immediately attached all the documentation and everything we know and everything we have regarding Ub-Lajkovac to the competent state authorities. Not only are we ready to show that this would never happen again in Serbia, but I will also tell you that what was done, obviously, is now under suspicion for me, therefore, in some previous years. Did they always do that? So, did they always put a bitumen in every place? Is that how it was done in Serbia for 20, 30 years? So I'm telling you, Ub-Likovac is an example of how things can't be done. It doesn't matter what the company's name or name is. It's important to you, I don't know for what reason. It's important to me that it's quality and contract. As for Mr. Ivkovic, he is also a professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering. So he's also the one who agrees with the opinion of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, or you, of course, have some of your relationships, that's your thing again. But, after all, there's a court. After all, we're all here to see the road that's gone and the clay, because I've been there literally every seven, eight days. Well, even, here's to agree, I have no idea, but engineers were, the people who built both Serbia and some other states, who said that never in their profession, in their lives, saw what they saw on Ub-Lykovac. It's a shame and it's a shame and it can't happen. It's up to us never to do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56019	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I would ask my colleagues to be parliamentary, not to throw each other away, nor did Zorana Mihajlovic throw anyone away. Everyone's gonna get a chance to say a word. The next is Verica Radeta, to mention the party president, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56020	It is unnecessary for a colleague, Marinkovic, to defend Zorana Mihajlovic in this way, because you do not do so to any minister. Leave your personal relationships and Scotts out of this room, really no more. Zorana defends herself perfectly, only someone else should believe her. Everything anyone else has done is not good, it's just good what she does. Well, we haven't forgotten her promises, nor her walking helmet on construction sites, nor her story – I'm going to the Grill and I'm not going back to New Year's Eve, if it doesn't end, so here she comes back, celebrated New Year's Eve with Scott at Hayat, etc. And the road wasn't over yet. Speaking of pudding, which pudding was on that slope in the Grill that collapsed three times? Was it chocolate pudding? Who's responsible for that? You've never given an answer so precisely how much it cost the state of Serbia? If someone else is responsible, did you charge for someone else's responsibility? Of course not. So, you're not the sinless Mrs. Mihajlovic. We Serbian radicals, yes, defend our companies, that if it's not even a road or any other object done, it's not just up to that company. There's a supervisory authority, there's a ministry service, not just a minister. I don't think about you, I don't think you're a woman who's a politician and as a politician and you can't know what concrete looks like and how to distinguish concrete from pudding, but there are people out there who will say that. Speaking of why do we care and do we care about a single name? No one on the globe cares about some firm that care about Zorana Mihajlovic to "Bechtela", and that, of course, pays well, well, unfortunately from Serbia's citizens' pockets, from Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56021	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56022	Okay, I can agree with you that, here, I have no idea what concrete is, or what pudding is, and I'm wrong at all, but, how can I tell you, the result says this: Ub-Likovac 2.45km made of clay, you file all the reports that were to be filed by the competent state authorities, and we expect them to do their job. That is, I stand behind it, as you stand behind your allegations that it is a great shame for the two Serbian companies who have done so. First, in general, if we were to go into history, we should see why this stock was first done, so what are the features, so why is that money in that way from the budget, so that what was really not done at that moment was a priority, but anyway, because of Ub-Lajkovec we, for example, are waiting a lot for the opening of the Obrenovac-Preljina, because if we let Obrenovac-Ub, and then we have on Ub-Lajkovac at 13 points of clay that we're fixing, then we have Lykovac-Ljig that's finished, so that's why we're practically waiting for that part of the job to end, instead of having a nice 103km much earlier than we said. If there are always mistakes from all sides, there are probably mistakes, but there are mistakes that are defined by the contract not to happen, and when they happen, then they have to answer for those mistakes, one of them is them. When you mention the Grumpy, we've prepared complete documentation. Investors are "Serbia Corridors". The moment the hair problem happened, so we sat down and got all the paperwork, prepared it for the authorities, and we're gonna hand it over, there's, like, two, three things that our assistant says we're waiting for. So there's no untouchable and there's no escape from any responsibility. It's got to be known because there's huge money in the game and because every penny, euro, dollar, etc. which we are investing, or we are in debt, must be justified, and on the other hand, which I think is much more important to the citizens, they must get their way as soon as possible, and we as a state should take care of these other things in terms of funding and making that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56023	Thank you. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56024	First, the Serbian Radical Party has previously insisted on starting work on Corridor 11, for a simple reason not only economic but also national interest in joining Serbia-Montenegro with modern traffic. It's an irrefutable fact. Second, we owe it to the public to tell the truth. The stock could not be used because it was not connected to that share done, for reasons unknown to us, because it took only 300,000 euros to invest that we have Ub's connection to that section of the road. As the exclusion from the Lykovac section would later be a loop for Ljig, for Lykovac and here for Valjevo, as a way out of that stock should have been later. That's why he wasn't in use. You insist it's a mistake to the performer. Mrs. Mihajlovic, the moment "Serbia's Ways" took responsibility, it implies before the technical reception was carried out, that control was carried out. Control only means if you can learn something from these associates, sampling on different parts of the road. This sampling involves digging deeply, taking samples together with asphalt and seeing a complete cross section of structure and bases, as well as asphalt. We're not talking about those criminal acts where they calculate with the thickness of the asphalt, we're talking about something called building material. The construction material must comply with the specifications prescribed to be installed, otherwise the supervisory authority, the body receiving that share, is then responsible. You're here defending the Drobnjak, you're here defending your co-worker who's simply been ignoring you lately and addressing the president of the state directly. You're doing him a very bad favor. The truth must be found here. If "Serbian Roads" were the ones responsible, we ask them why they didn't keep it, why wasn't it regulated to take water, why weren't the clean channels, the drains, why wasn't the connection to that stock, why wasn't the part that excluded it? These are all questions that require an answer, and here you further accuse domestic performers. That's a huge number of workers working there. Don't say that. Don't be the blackest of domestic performers, and then you honor us with Serbian radicals, that we have some party and personal interest. No, I don't. It is our goal to do as many modern, modern traffic and what you do in Fruszko Gora, where good luck if you had listened at least to us Serbian radicals, we would have been freed of great costs. There's no need to work a tunnel through the Frusch Mountain, but who's going to prove to you when you've drunk all the brains of this world, what do you care? You'll end your term, who knows where you'll be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56025	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Professor Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56026	Well, I don't know how something isn't built in if you say it several times the first, second, third time it's all done by project, because you know it well and you claim it was done by project, so how is something not done? Well, the project said it had to be done. The second thing, the investigation also showed that unfortunately this building material you're talking about hasn't been installed, so all those who inform you are giving you bad information. The construction ministry is pleased to send in writing everything that we have in the documentation, all reports and analyses for Ub-Lajkovac. The Serbian Radical Party will win if not tomorrow, it will receive in two days. One more thing to say, according to technical reception, this Ub-Lajkovac section writes – it is not suitable for use. So, then, we still have a problem on that stock, no matter what you're trying to do through that story, the standard story of populism, you say -- we're very concerned about the workers, the terrible government, the terrible one, the minister, here, will leave the workers out of work. No, the directors, those who run these companies, did other jobs, some authorities responsible for that will take care of them, let them tell us what actually happened and where that money they were supposed to spend making a quality trip, not a road of clay. It has nothing to do with whether or not the road has been used, whether it's been maintained for two years or not, but it has something to do with what you've done. Unfortunately, they're made of clay. Unfortunately, they didn't do the drain. Unfortunately, they had a counter-threat. Where is it in the world? So do I, who have no idea who I am, the doctor of economic sciences, when you make a counter-threat on the way, where does the water go? On the way, he's capable of going the other way. You can laugh all you want. Unfortunately, it's sad and it's a sad picture of a section that shouldn't have been that way. I sincerely hope it never happens again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56027	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56028	Mrs. Mihajlovic, let's make a deal. Still, the waist has the last word. First, it's not because of the water that's going, the water goes where the slope is, it's because of the uncertainty, the failure of the road to traffic, the movement of normal traffic. When it's a counter-threat, then traffic accidents can happen. That's the point. If they have drain canals, then by nature and by logic things water goes into drain canals. Why wasn't the road used? Because there's no Ub connection. That's why he wasn't in use. And you keep starting, you do what – the more you repeat that clay. The clay is building material. The technical reception implies on-site response by the technical commission that received the stock. For two years, the "Serbian" had the share. If we keep accusing domestic performers like this, how far are we gonna get? This way they're doomed to be subcontractors, so the contractors who win the tender under these special laws give them some church girl, and they have to work to keep themselves alive, and yet you attribute them not to be professional, so you still activate the guarantee to three million, so what is it? Then you begin to honor us with Serbian radicals. You have nothing to respect. As for the workers, believe me, they're thrilled to see you in a dressing room that cost just as much as a bagger for a year's pay. They're thrilled to see such a team in front of the government when they come to the highway section. You have no idea how much they want to see you and your associates in the expensive dressing room.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56029	My friend Mircic, we don't want anyone wearing what he's wearing or what he's wearing. It doesn't make any sense. I don't know. I like the helmet. You don't like it. Let's move on. The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56030	The Ministry sent all documents to the authorities not only on the name of the performer, not only that the contractors were responsible, but also, of course, the designers and the expert supervision and the design supervision and the laboratory which at one point provided the completely wrong and how and why the laboratory gave the information that something was good and was not good. So they're all on the D.A.'s list as responsible for everything that happened on Ub-Lykovac. But it's still embarrassing that we had to move from three to eight meters deep to make a new highway. I repeat again, it will never happen again, and it must not happen again. All we do is learn from what we inherited, so we end up, whether it's Corridor 10, whether it's Ub-Lajkovac, something that can't happen again. Furthermore, I think, too, that the authorities must do their job. I sincerely hope it goes much faster, because I think that once someone who does something that doesn't comply with the law answers, it's probably not going to happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56031	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56032	And you should applaud, we finally came close to the truth. Now you've said the right thing - there's a chain of responsibility. They're not responsible performers. They are responsible until the moment until the technical commission accepts it. It's not their lab, it's not their reception engineers, it's nothing under their control. It's all under the control of the supervisory authority. You can't attribute. Now you've admitted yourself wrong. Now you admit it yourself. That's hard, but it's an irrefutable fact. We can discuss how much modern traffic in Serbia is needed. That's what every normal person knows is necessary. But we can't rule out responsibility in that. Well, we've warned a lot about how much has been stolen before on the highways. Remember when these people came after October 5th, they only worked for a thieving and criminal action involving Ljubisa Buha Chume and Zoran Djindjic, along with Dinkic and all of those who cleaned your suits, wore an act of purse. I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about these others. We're the only ones who warned that it was a crime, that it was stealing. And it turns out we're right. We care about making roads, but there can be no crime. Serbia is in charge of not small money and yet to allow it to be a crime, and then we place all responsibility on our domestic performers. Well, don't say that. There's a responsibility. If there is a responsibility, it needs to be proven, not to activate their guarantee to three million. For what reason are they convicted in advance? Talks with them are blackmailed to admit their guilt, and then extra 10 million. In two and a half miles, ten million is set aside to do so. It's given to a performer who can't do it. That's the point. You need to know the full truth. You're part of the truth. There's a responsibility in the sequence, all we need to determine is who's responsible, not throw an anthem at our roadways.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56033	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56034	Domestic tollers, domestic construction road companies have received jobs on the territory of the Republic of Serbia since 2014 as long as they did not get 20 years ago. Those who ruled those 20 years, meaning not only since 2000 but before 2000, destroyed construction companies. You all know that very well. Therefore, jobs since 2012, especially from 2014 and 2015 for domestic construction companies not only have and not only will have them, it is not a serious question whether they can get there. So, domestic Serbian companies are working on all stakeholders. Also, what is important is that there is no confusion, Obrenovac-Ub for the Chinese company "Shandong". Lykovac-Ljig, therefore, continues, I do not speak Ub-Lajkovac, so we have Obrenovac-Ub, for "Shandong", then the domestic companies Ub-Lajkovac, and then Lykovac-Ljig also worked "Shandong". We're because we couldn't get feedback and they really did their job by those who messed up the Ub-Lajkovac business, which is Užice and Planum, and we asked and talked to the Chinese company "Shandong" who does the first and third shares, to do and reschedul Ub-Lajkovac shares, which 2.45 km. If you think they have no idea, since you said they did before, now you're saying that Chinese companies don't know, okay, on your soul, but they're gonna finish this job and we're all gonna use that trip from August 15th, and these things aren't gonna happen again. As far as bank guarantees are concerned, yes, we are a ministry that has been using all available funds since 2014 to complete whatever it takes to end up in accordance with the contracts. And, yes, we will activate every bank guarantee, whether domestic or foreign companies, if they don't do their job properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56035	Thank you. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56036	Here, maybe you're partly right about the past period that the road economy, i.e. tolls, was being ruined. Before 2000, your party president, Alexander Vukic, was a member of the government. Did you tell him that? Do you want me to tell him? Along with him I was a member of the government, she was an SRS in power, but that's a period of sanctions. It's a period when Serbia couldn't get into any investments. It tried the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway, where we warned, alarmed the public, then government members, the resolute minister, that the performer, which is "Borovica" Ruma, was not suitable for these jobs. No one listened to us. He didn't listen to your current party president either. And if he was involved in destroying the travel industry, you tell him. He'll be glad to hear that he participated the same way as all of us, in the destruction of domestic tolls. That's nice. And in doing so, you've been neglecting the period since October 5th, when criminals, along with government representatives, couldn't separate themselves, Miroljub Labus, who was your idol, and Ljubisha Buhu Chumeta, no one could separate and say - this is fair, this is not. It's the same. It's just a matter of what amount of money she was in at a certain point. They need to be abolized. They're not guilty of anything. It is Alexander Vukic, who, along with us, participated in the government since 2000. Here, now you from the Serbian Progressive Party to hear what your former member G-17 says.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56037	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Alexander Vukic was the Minister of Information and was not involved in the construction of roads. Secondly, you, Mr. Mircic, are falling into an absurd situation. On the one hand, you defend domestic contractors and you complain about their sad fate, and then you say it's all thieves and criminals. Well, wait, and this Ljubisha Bhuha Chuma is a domestic contractor. And this Dusan Borovica is a domestic contractor. And those from "The Road of Užica" are domestic contractors. And Rade "Intercop", right, from Capca, is a domestic contractor. And what were those domestic contractors for? Let's be completely open. They were in the most brutal manner possible recruited by the regimes from 2000 to 2012. What did the Serbian government do, including Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic? Well, never the Serbian market, when it comes to the construction of road infrastructure, was it more open for both domestic and foreign companies than it is now. That couldn't have happened by 2012. Well, you knew exactly, you know it, I know it, and I know, I know half the hall, people who sit here, who do politics a little longer, you've had exclusive contractors in certain parts of Serbia. In Vojvodina, the monopoly had Borovica, partly "Intercop". In central Serbia, Ljubisa Buha Chuma, Miskovici, who privatised a good part of the travel companies, etc. I'd be very careful to qualify someone as a domestic contractor. Just because someone's a domestic contractor, doesn't mean he's not involved in illegal activities, doesn't mean he's not doing a whole series of crimes, doesn't mean he's not involved in various corruption affairs, and I hope to you, as I do, he's very well-known. And in the end, Mr. Mircic, they're all private companies. These are private companies that operate on the market according to the principles that apply to everyone else. I don't know why you're particularly apostrophealing them now as domestic companies that should have privileged status? What does that mean? We need to get rid of all responsibility to Borovic, who for more than 10 years has failed to finish that Ipsilon arm at Sudotica, and he got money and money, so he had to give part of the money to Pajtic, so to Elezovic, so to Boris Tadic, who knows who. Sam spoke, he said, when he went to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, he carried cash in travel bags and said -- I come to the Capital Investment Fund and he can't withdraw the elevator, how much money I had to take to Pajtic and the Director of the Capital Investment Fund, Momcilo Milovic, who later, to avoid criminal responsibility, was appointed by the Serbian government as the General Consul in Trieste. And it all happened before Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, who you can think of as the blackest possible, became the minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure. And these are all domestic contractors. But every single criminal and thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56039	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56040	Mr. Martinovic, you've put it all on the pile now. Of course, there's a lot we don't differ in thinking, especially when it comes to "Bhuha Chume". He was just changing the asphalt. He didn't do anything else. And he's famous for stealing in co-operation with this G-17, Djindjic and the others, on the thickness of the asphalt. What he was changing, instead of a five-centimeter thickness, he was putting on four. One centimeter long, that went straight into your pockets. We all agree. But domestic tollers, it means that those who work properly, who are trained, who have an operation, should take care of them. They're under double pressure now. First, they are not economically strong enough to deal with foreign companies, and secondly, investors, but by giving money in advance, potentiate their performers and there they are denied. We have to take care of it. It is true that in that part of the economy there was a ride, but neither you nor I nor anyone guilty. If someone had a political relationship with it, then it's the Secretary of Resorship. But that's G-17. We don't want to wash the past now. We're not going to say no, no, we weren't. Yes, it is. They contributed to both Miskovic and others reaching that capital. And then we warned about how dangerous it was. Then We spoke plainly and loudly. Besides, you stood out for it, too, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party. We spoke uncompromisingly about it. And now, with full right, you can speak these examples, because you didn't participate. But we want things to be done on the clearing, to tell the truth, what's the truth about it. It is true that in one part of the additional campaign is carried out only on domestic roadways, or private companies. A little while ago, we came to a part of the truth that the chain of responsibility was still at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56041	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56042	I guess we don't understand each other very well, Mr. Mircic. So, I was talking about that there are a whole series of domestic companies, travel companies, or companies dealing with the construction of road infrastructures run by people from the crime scene, and we agree on that. You are now trying for political reasons to impute Zorani Mihajlovic that she is responsible for the exclusive right to build local, regional, highways from 2000 to 2012. had people like Borovic, like Miskovic, like Ljubisha Buha Chumet, etc. The fact that Zorana Mihajlovic belonged to a party called G-17 plus does not mean that the woman is responsible for the situation in the travel economy for the 12 years of the dossal authorities. I don't think so. The questionable fact is that we belonged to different political parties, but don't tell me that for crime in the sphere of travel economy is the most responsible for 12 years of DOS authorities, Zorana Mihajlovic. You and I both know that's not true. What is the merit of Zorana Mihajlovic, what is the merit of the Prime Minister, now the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, by 2012, so which foreign company could you have in Serbia as a contractor? None. You had Borovica, you had "Intercop", you had companies that were privatised by Miskovici, so one was led by a son, the other was led by a father, the third was led by Milo Djuraskovic, etc. You now have Serbian roads as contractors and companies from Russia, from Turkey, from Azerbaijan, China, perhaps someone from the United States will appear. Why not? After all, this whole infrastructure momentum when it comes to travel has its own political dimension. Let's get back to the past. You talked about the period from 1998 to 2000 when the SRS particated in the Serbian government. Imagine, Mr. Mircic, if we had in Serbia at the time, I'm not saying it was anyone's fault, but let's just assume that the situation, if we had done Russian, Turkish, Azerbaijani, Chinese, American in Serbia at that time, would it have occurred to anyone in 1999 to bomb that country? Hardly. You often accuse Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government of giving subsidies, as you say, to foreign companies, although these are domestic companies because they are registered in the Republic of Serbia and operate under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. (President: Time.) I'm done, Mr. Marinkovic. I think this is important for Serbian citizens to hear. We now have companies whose capital came, which are domestic, but whose capital came from Russia, from France, from Germany, from Italy, etc. They all operate in the Republic of Serbia, thus strengthening the security capacity of the Republic of Serbia. Is someone crazy in the West to bomb the state in which the company founded his capital is operating? Of course not. So, all of this that we're talking about is not just – let's bring in the buffer and make the way, this has its own economic dimension, it has its own political dimension, but it has its own security dimension and we need to take care of it when we talk about this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56043	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. Over 50 minutes of replication. If you agree, colleague Mircic, yes... The positions are different, we saw it. There were over 10 replicas and one... The SRS are getting it. But there are so many different positions, and we have to stop once. Well, I'm just asking you to understand that we should continue. Here, and the minister won't speak. We faced... The SRS are getting it. It is. The opposition. Here you go. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56044	Mr. Martinovic, I was afraid that we did not agree in that part that you were a prominent member of the SRS who attacked all these phenomena that we are talking about, but the essence is in the next part, but when you started the economic side, do not forget the name of our citizens' savings in the largest number of foreign banks we have nine billion euros. Nine billion euros. We're still so passive or, read whatever you want, powerless that we can't activate that domestic capital. People are interested in participating with their capital in the purchase of road construction bonds. It's everywhere in the world. Just you, Mr. Arsic, get baptized. Veroljub Arsic: It's Tito's radio. I am pleased to see that you are getting baptized, and as far as you are going to get there is now a question, but you have begun to get baptized. That's one segment. Secondly, we are becoming more and more in debt, Mr. Martinovic, you know that well. As they lend us credit, so do they, and who will be the performer and what material will be bought and conditioned. These are the rules of the game that are common knowledge. No one will give you money in the world, not the World Bank, not the European Bank, that you decide who will do it and where the material will come from. They're always looking to protect their capital. Always. It's a rule of capital. Despite such a situation, the unfair games played by domestic companies, we put extra burden on them here. I'm not telling me Serbian radicals for responsibility from 2000 to 2012, but I just said, for example, political connection is those who were in those parties. (President: Thank you. We're talking about the current responsibility. We have to think differently. We need roads, but let's see if we can raise our domestic production that way, not let the foreigners determine everything for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56045	Thank you, colleague Mircic. My colleague Radeta, I'm trying to be real to everyone correct and tolerable. You're no good at it. I think I'm doing it. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56046	One of the best examples of how many states Serbia is taking care of domestic contractors is the Belgrade water project, the project that was most disputed by the DS and all of these parties that are now in this Gilas Alliance for Serbia. Who's the contractor? The domestic company Energy Project and that's what they couldn't understand and what they didn't want to understand until today. It's not about whether Mr. Mircic, Mrs. Radeta or I have enough money to buy an apartment in Belgrade on the water, but someone does. It is not a matter of us buying an apartment, but of hiring a domestic company to build Belgrade on water because it employs domestic workers, because it uses domestic machinery, domestic building materials, etc., on the side that the part of Belgrade looks better than it ever looked. Therefore, it is not true that the state of Serbia, or the government of Serbia, is not taking care of domestic contractors. And how it leads. This thing about foreign banks, about not being able to withdraw capital, don't get mad, I didn't understand you very well, and that part is why I won't comment, and I don't think you're right when you say that whoever's giving you credit is blackmailing you. Don't forget, Mr. Mircic, we don't take loans just from banks that are in the Western Hemisphere. We take loans from both the Russians and the Chinese. Milorad Mircic throws. So they're blackmailing us? So the Russians are blackmailing us, too? Milorad Mircic throws. Mr. Mircic, we're being blackmailed by a state where you swear he's our biggest friend. We're being blackmailed by the People's Republic of China. It's Russia, try to communicate... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I end up communicating with me, not Zorana Mihajlovic. Russia is a market-indicator country. Some banks are in majority state property, some are private. China only has banks that are state-owned because simply people have a socialist-social-economic system, if you want to go into thin air. Right? Now you're saying that the state that sees Serbia as the most friendly in this part of the world blackmails us through its state banks when it gives us loans to build roads, railways, etc. I don't think that's correct. Neither do the Russians, nor do the Chinese, and I doubt anyone is doing it because the Serbian government has shown that it is willing to resist much more difficult temptations and much more difficult challenges than giving credit. Remember how much pressure has been put on Alexander Vukic and on the Serbian government to impose sanctions on Russia. Have we imposed sanctions on Russia? We didn't. So, the Serbian government is resistant to pressure. (President: Thank you. ) So, if we haven't imposed sanctions on Russia, who can force the Serbian government to take credit while blackmailing it to be that and that contractor. What's important is the quality of the works, the deadlines are important, and ultimately, safety on the roads is important. What's it worth to us to give a job to a domestic company and tomorrow or in a year or five years' time on that side of the road is 10, 20, 50 or 100 car accidents and get killed, don't God, some kid, some woman, some pregnant woman, a man, doesn't matter who... (President: Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... And this is happening on our roads, among other things, because the works are badly done. One more thing to say. This is where the travel lab was mentioned, taking samples, etc. Right? It's a CPL, Central Road Lab. It's also a private company. It's not state. Therefore, someone who operates as a private company would differ in certain situations from people like Borovica, Miskovic or Ljubisa Buha Chuma. I don't think there's any big difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56047	Thank you. The right to answer has a colleague Milorad Mircic, and you colleagues, Jovanovic, do not threaten me from the bench. I know what I'm doing. Please don't do this. Natasha St. Jovanovic: Don't talk, whoever told you anything, just stick to the Rules of Procedure. Nobody said anything offensive about being embarrassed. Me threatening you wouldn't really be good. ) I am taking a break in accordance with Article 112 of the five minutes. Don't do it, it's not right, it's not collegiate. [[after breaks]] You can only sign up again. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56049	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. This law essentially concerns the determination of public interest in road construction. The debate has also turned into highway construction technology and I have nothing against it, and that such discussion and controversy is being held here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so today I will have the freedom to go beyond this administrative process and to establish public interest, say some views and some of my experiences and observations about highways. First of all, as far as the very way of conducting the expropriation is concerned, it's regulated by the Expropriation Act itself. For the time being, it is accepted that the value of the land on which the expropriation is carried out is determined by the tax administration on the basis of traffic where the property on the territory and the cadastrian municipality or some neighbouring, average value, seems to me to be at least three of the turnovers established, and yet the tax administration determined the value of the property to establish the basis for the payment of the tax on the sales of absolute rights. So, it's very difficult to question the objectivity of the tax administration in one of these models, because the tax administration itself was protecting the state to pay taxes in the amount that it really costs, and now, apparently, it's a bad way when the state needs to buy that same property from natural persons with an explanation that it's now much lower than it normally is, marketable. We can't take two similar procedures to look at two circumstances. One is applied, and if this model is the best, I don't want to go into it, there's probably a better one, but for now this is the legal solution we have, and the procedure is run by local self-government. I can say that there will always be problems, because it seems to me that red tape by local self-government has some way of solving these problems, and a little bit of saying that there is, I guess, because they live with citizens who are expropriating trying to give certain benefits to those citizens. I don't mind that, but it means, the benefits under the law, you can't get out of it. So maybe it's time to make a new Expropriation Act and to carry out one such procedure faster, more efficient and fairer for the users themselves, or for the entities in the expropriation process. Now, it could have been talking about the highway itself. We all agreed we needed highways. However, it seems to me that we do not agree on that often, where highways should be, who will be the performer, what technologies will be applied and where the sources of funding will be. The government of the Republic of Serbia has its own strategy. Now, that strategy doesn't come up in a year, two or three. This is one process and it is very bad if this strategy is subject to dramatic and major changes, because often the money you invested in a certain part of the infrastructure does not give the expected results because this strategy is not implemented until the end. When this interest is not achieved on the source of supplier financing, then it starts with a crazy story among Serbian citizens, what we need highways for. They say -- highways don't eat and highways don't live, we need a job to support our families, and one of the parameters when someone wants to invest somewhere whether it's a foreign or domestic investor because I see it now and it becomes a problem, one of the parameters is traffic infrastructure. The transport infrastructure determines for the investor by domestic and foreign means and each other the costs he will have in his business in which he wants to make investments. The highways, railways, waterways, ports, ports reduces those costs and every mile of highway that is built increases Serbia's competitiveness as a country where investors want to invest money, whether foreign or domestic. Through these investments, jobs are being opened. We're a resource called a high unemployment rate in terms of attracting investors, we don't have that resource anymore, we don't have that resource anymore. Investors have already started competing among themselves to gain quality labour in much of Serbia and to keep a good worker ready to pay him very decent wages for these opportunities and significantly higher than it was three or four years ago. So if we want this process to continue and to increase the competitiveness of our workforce, we need to have quality traffic infrastructure. So we're getting to it from the highways. We're talking about secondary consequences now. The primary consequence is that, regardless of who it is, the real highway, whether it's a foreign company or domestic, through the financing and construction of that highway of the state actually in the real sector is largely pumping up capital and providing jobs for employees in Serbia, because whoever gets it most of the workforce will be from here. And these people will, as they make that highway, provide the means to their own lives and their families and, secondly, increase spending on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, domestic goods and services. It's all connected and these are rules that have been in force for centuries. So much has been said about the United States, the fact is at this point the military, the political, the most economically powerful country in the world. Did he ask any questions as to whether it was just because of her natural resources? There are, they're not poor about it, but they have other countries. Is it because of their science, development, etc? That became later, let me say, in the second, third decade of the 20th century. What enabled them to become so economically strong military and political? 150 years ago, they combined their large cities with railways, cheaped production, and thus became competitive in world markets. So they exploit what they accomplished 150 years ago today. I guess we learned something from that school, that without traffic infrastructure, there's no development, there's no work, and people aren't going to stay here. Because many fled from Serbia just because their home where they were born had no way to get there. I think it's time that opponents of these projects start thinking about it. One more thing, however the highway is financed, and one of the models is the withdrawal of credit, only an economically illiterate man can say it increases the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. Because through one such investment, the Republic of Serbia increases the value of its assets. You know, it's not the same when you only have meadows and some field, the value of that property that the state has is often meaningless, and it's much bigger if you have something that's built. Whether bonds should be broadcast, it is one of the models, but we do not have a developed domestic paper market, where ordinary citizens could finance the state by buying these bonds in a cheaper way. It's long-term bonds, and I remember a model like that and it's been here before during Joseph Broz Tito. It's probably the ones who suggest living in that time. I remember perfectly, I think I was headed to the first or second grade of elementary school when my father and my mother were ordered to buy bonds for the construction of the highway of the Brotherhood in 1976 and 1977. They shouldn't have said they wouldn't do it. They shouldn't have said they wouldn't do it. Do we want to live in such a Serbia today? I don't. When the bonds came for payment, it was said – you can charge, but it would be good to forgive the state. Or not to talk about the famous loan for Serbia's rebirth and not to put it that way. These are very bad experiences of our citizens and they will hardly decide to buy our bonds. There were also stories about the euro bonds purchased on the London Stock Exchange. Who defended our citizens from buying these bonds? I think no one and I think they bought a lot of them. There are ways of both Castodi banks and brokerage houses and portfolios that business banks buy from their depositors etc., etc. Otherwise, it's a huge success when the loan that someone owed us 10, 11 with a maturity of 15 and 20 years with a 7% interest or 8% interest, you raise the second loan to repay and pay the interest 1.5 to 2%. Calculate what is the difference between five percent points in 10 years. If we're going to defend those who put us in charge with those interest rates, their life form and their work, I won't. Every time there's a story about these travel companies, don't ask us where the travel companies in Serbia went, ask Miskovic. He's being ruined by travel companies and convicted. We have nothing to do with it. Or why aren't all the highways made? Here, I know the way of the Presevo-Brand, it seems to me that he's been paid, so the performer and the money and the performer are gone. He went bankrupt, but went bankrupt in Austria, not in Serbia. It's not Greek, but I don't know why we're defending something like this that's been happening to us. People, the fact is, most of the roads that were made by 2012 were stealth roads, including the so many times mentioned Ub-Lajkovac, were introduced by land workers where the expropriation was not done. Now somebody tell me that with an unexploded expropriation, you're going to get a used permit for such a trip, or how are you going to get the means to maintain one such path to define it, and it essentially doesn't belong to you even though you made it? I guess those are stealth roads, like those from Presevo to Vranj. The stealth road, paid was never made. So I was surprised by the President of the Fiscal Council, now the other day at the debate, when he said that investments in 2010 and 2011 were higher than in 2018 or 2019. What kind of investment? The ones they wrote about the Budget Law? It is not just enough to write a law, to vote in the Assembly, to enforce the law. We had a situation that we were borrowing the state, I guess it's defending the character and the work of those people again, borrowing the state, not having projects, because we didn't have projects we couldn't withdraw funds from banks and we were paying for penals on undrawn funds. Of course, regular interest like we pulled everything. That's how it was done until 2012. That's why we came here, 2013, 2014 when we had to implement fiscal consolidation measures to prepare the state and the economy for some better times that I see have come. So the controversy over who will be the performer, where the funding sources will be, whether they are domestic companies, foreign firms, is often just a question of founders, unemployed in the company. You don't care if he's the founder of Pera Peric. It forms a company in Serbia, bringing in everything from Bulgaria and Romania. Is that a Serbian firm? Yes, it is. Who works in it? They don't work for our citizens. Or if someone comes in from Austria, for example. He's starting a company here in Serbia and hiring all the domestic workers here, these people who live here. Is that how we want to make the difference? To talk about who's foreign, who's a domestic investor, and who's supposed to have what benefits? In most cases, it's a common demagogy. Every company owner is looking to get his profits and that's a perfectly legitimate and legitimate right. The problem is that in this desire to get to that profit, often occurs, by 2012, on high-ranking authorities who asked him for a piece of money for themselves. That's why it was lost to the quality of the works or what happened between Vranj and Preshev, to disappear both the money and the highway. You don't want any part of that, do you? I don't, whoever wants to say it. But these are some things we often catch up on when we want to make a political story about one, essentially a good infrastructure project. So this part of the story about it, watch out for this, whether customs and tax re-promatter that is imported into Serbia for the construction of the highway, but be careful, never ends the whole sentence until the end, which will be regulated by amendments and additions to the Tax Act on additional value. Therefore, rules will be laid down exactly how this tax exemption can also be achieved customs, of course, and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. When we attack that, I ask only one other question, and who do taxes and customs go to, who do we release? I'd like someone to tell me who we're releasing customs and taxes. It's just like if we had to pay customs and tax now, you know what, on these MiGs imported by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic of Russia. So the military can't use them, they didn't pay customs and taxes. Well, I guess that's the state, the army's a state organ. Is the government a state body? So now we want to play the tax procedure and the tax administration, so we can pour the same money from one register to another. And one more thing, I have to tell you, Madam Minister, that's what those who cheer for banks do, they don't know what they're doing, but they're rooting for banks, because then the value of the works will be increased by taxes and customs, and that's how we're going to have to raise a bigger loan, but that's how they look at it. Here, just a few things I've touched how often a good project like this is abused for political purposes. I don't mind, it's their right, but let us, and it's our right to defend what we think is good for Serbia, and those who decide on it will decide in the elections. First of all, we answer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I am sure that they will know that they appreciate when elections are held. Of these projects, I wish we had more, I know this is just one start, I wish we had more to solve East Serbia as much as possible with road infrastructure, it's desperate there. That is why we have a large number of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad, not to make it easier for them to come and go back there, but to make it easier for them to make a decision to return to Serbia, where there is a house and to live and work, not abroad. So you can be sure that this kind of project will bring exactly the results that are expected. In voting day, we will vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56050	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56051	You didn't respect article 27 just now when you gave Arsic your word. You cannot, not you personally, but any chairman, abuse the Rules of Procedure. There's something strange going on with you, colleague Marinkovic, every time Zorana Mihajlovic is here, but really. You don't protect a minister like her. What makes you, I don't know, but you must stick to the Rules of Procedure and you must show no more sympathy for Zorana Mihajlović than you did yesterday for Sarčević. You were completely tolerated, we could do whatever we wanted to talk about, the word didn't say. So very strange and very interesting. First you managed to get the Bechtel story away, far away to forget what our theme is, and that's 300 million euros that were given to Bechtel in the name of building this corridor, and then when you tried to break the lines, I did all this for the public, and you know perfectly what you were doing, I don't repeat it to you, when you tried to break the line by not letting Milorad Mircic speak, then Natasa Jovanovic said from the scene – if you don't let Mircic speak, then we'll all go to Business. And you said from there that Natasha Jovanovic was threatening you. Someone would have thought that he was going to come and beat you, so people feel sorry for you and say, "If Natasha comes, he'll really kick his ass." So she didn't threaten, she warned about the Rules of Procedure. You said before that, if you don't stop the lines, I'll interrupt the session. It is the same threat as this threat, if that is the threat by Natasha Jovanovic. I beg you, my friend, we have correct cooperation, don't spoil it. Zorana's passing today, so who knows when. We're staying. Save your collegiate relationships. I thought, when you first started from Bechtel, I said you might want to explain to us at some point when it will work this time, which your friend Zorana let go, this bridge between Love and Bratunac, and that's not the end of your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56052	Thank you, colleague Radeta. You know that I am working really hard, and I believe that in the previous half I was very correct and towards SRS representative my colleague Mircic and that I have given the replicas enough times in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and let the debate between him, Minister Mihajlović and Dr Martinovic be very correct and that everyone gets all the time and opportunities for discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that this debate has been going on, very correct and my colleague Mircic has been very, very correct. I really don't have a comment. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. As far as the Deputy Prime Minister is concerned, I must answer you. It is simple for me and for some knightly spirit to stand in protection and defense when it goes out of the Rules of Procedure and whoever it is I would do it as chairman. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura. She's not present. The word is Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56053	Here, Mr. Marinkovic, I thought you forgot me, given the fact that we went upside down this list, but it had nothing to do with this. I'd like to address you first, if today the minister had an obligation to come here to explain the law and defend the bill. Here, since this morning, since the minister is here, and some MPs of the ruling majority have been trying to disabling the public with a ground floor treatment of opposition MPs, by constantly repeating the same floscule – we are for building highways, and these are not. Who isn't to build highways today from those present in the O.R.? I don't mean all sorts of thieves and criminals who haven't been here in a while. That's proven. And who isn't? Mrs. Mihajlović, I would also like Mr. Sarcevic to answer questions yesterday, and you should consider it positive what you're discussing with us and that's a good thing that you're discussing, because we're trying to get those information we're reading and get what's best for Serbia to come to some final conclusion. Here today, let me remind you, since we're only going to speak the facts, today is Wednesday 26 June 2019, I repeat, June 26, 2019. Television Telemark, December 31st, 2017, means 18 months ago – Serbia on Corridor 11 starts the same important share next year, which is Preljina-Požega, I think is one of the most important shares in Corridor 11, which, therefore, we start working next year, no later than May. It takes two years for that stock to be done. Commercial contracts in November 2017 were signed by Minister Mihajlovic with the vice-president of China's China Communications Construction Company at the China Summit and 16 Central and Eastern European countries in Budapest. This was announced by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic on 31 December 2017. So so far, the highway's over by you. Let's move on, your predecessor, since the topic you're bypassing is the US company, Minister Verica Kalanovic said just like Aleksandar Vukic, that it's a share that costs up to 500 million, 450 and 500. Make a deal between yourselves, then whoever's telling the truth. And yet then Minister Kalanovic spoke as you, here next year will be over, your minister, from your coalition seven full years ago. Let's move on, you're now saying, you're not interested in who it is, as you are skipping the theme "Bechtela", on 19 June 2018, he said – after certain meetings with you, the US ambassador said, the potential participation of the US investor was an important step in improving relations between the two countries. So it doesn't matter the quality, it doesn't matter the price, it's important to improve relationships, Scott says. Radeta spoke to you about the case of Croatia. So that's what the German "Spiggle" wrote. Well, then I'll remind you that Bechtel, together with Enko in 2014, received a job building an 820m-dollar highway connecting Kosovo and Metohija and Macedonia, the Pristina authorities then gave it. Well, then another project close to a billion dollars connecting with Albania, the same without a tender, no public procurement, nothing. At that time, the head of the international civil office in Pristina, Peter Faith, even reacted. It's a company that only gets jobs by direct contract. Let's move on, we Americans don't owe anything, unlike Thaci, we have to take care of the citizens of Serbia. Now, that's where the Serbian radicals differ from you. Let's move on. Promise, let's mid-July 2018, Vukic announced at the Ceremony Academy about 150 years of tourism in Vrnjačka Banja that we are leaving soon with these works and we will soon finish, related to this highway. Let's move on, since the SNS was in power, at a press conference on 22 January 2013 in the Mozambique City Hall of Kruševac, then Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government Verica Kalanovic announced the construction of the road 2013. On the first day of August 2013, Bratislava Gasic announced that several projects will be working soon, which is the highway we are talking about. Furthermore, in March 2014, in the wake of the election campaign, Gasic announced that construction of the Pojate highway – Preljina will begin this year in the company of the then Serbian Parliament president Nebojsa Stefanovic. Let's move on, Zorana Mihajlovic, Serbian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport and Infrastructure in March 2017, pledged that a contract on the construction of the Moravski Corridor would be signed by the end of the year. Further, at the presentation of the results of the first 100 days of the Serbian government in Krusevec on 14 October 2017, Mihajlovic said the highway to Pojate – Preljina project is worth about a billion euros of strategic importance to the Serbian government and expects to be known partners in the construction process in mid-Next year, as well as the funding model. And you come to us today to tell us what will and how it will be, and to keep arguing without any facts with us. Then it appeared, as we know, after more hints that it would cost this time 450 and 500 million as thunder from the clear sky, 800 million from Bechtel. Now, let me remind you, when we mentioned it, i.e. When you mentioned Obrenovac – Čačak, I'll remind the public again, I'm saying this to make the public realize that you've used them to promise daily, give information to simply forget, and then every time you come here or go to the construction site, someone thinks something new is open again, as you claimed to have 200 kilometers of highway, and from your ministry we've arrived that 123.5 has been done. I can read that to you, too, will you? I hope you'll answer all this, if I've said one thing wrong. Let's move on, April 4, 2019, the highway that will connect Belgrade and Cacak is practically finished and will be released in traffic in early June. Today, gentlemen, June 26th, the minister is not telling the truth, I'm not saying he's lying in early June. As we were told in the ministry in the part of Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Cačka, we have little, small final work to do. Let's move on, let's do what Zorana Mihajlovic says again, before the summer we'll run the stock from Obrenovac to Preljina, and by the end of the year the part of Surčin – Obrenovac will be finished, which means we'll have miles again. It's very nice when the people listen every time they listen to how many miles they're going to be. Let's move on, just a little later, on June 6th, just two months after these terrible, monstrous truths towards the citizens of Serbia, Zorana Mihajlovic comes out and says – the opening of the highway from Obrenovac to Cačka is once again delayed, here we will open it on June 28th. Is that right? Well, then Minister Zorana Mihajlovic comes out again and says, on June 20th, I will stand over their head highway from Obrenovac to Ljiga will be ready by August 15th. Well, probably since she's in the Assembly today and couldn't stand over their heads, there's probably nothing done there today, because, as you know on Corridor 10, he fired an asphalt, the access route wasn't released, just like on Ub – Likovac. Let's see when we're at Corridor 10 that shot the asphalt what you say. Insider 14 November 2018 – of course the Corridor 10 ends and will end and that we will drive through the cars here by the end of the year and through the Grill, imagine through the Throat. And now that I'm not reading the rest, I hope you'll give some answers, so we'll see who's right and who's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56054	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's always easier to sit in the cooled hall of the National Assembly than to work in the field. Since you're talking about facts, the facts are next. So, from 2014 to 2018, while Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic is the minister of construction, transport and infrastructure, it was built 440, nearly 446km of highway, while the construction of 103km of more highways is under way and plans to build about 700km of highways through Serbia in the coming period. Since you've actually read the papers here, what certain televisions have reported about Alexander Vukic and the SNS have been saying all the worst, taking statements out of context, and so on and so forth and wanting to remind the public, I'd like to remind you a little bit of things. In May 2014, I hope you know very well, but you won't say, unremembered Bible floods took place. We succeeded, or the government of Serbia, in record short time to repair all the consequences of these floods that occurred to us in May 2014. You get baptized, and I'm asking you now in which country it's possible that as the houses crash, the bridges crash, the highways collapse, the slides swallow all parts of Serbia, you're in the construction of highways. In which country is that possible? Tell me, is there one single dinar embezzled during Serbia's reconstruction due to the May floods in 2014? You can't find that single dinar. Then you show up here, as you say on June 26, 2019, as if we don't know what today's date is and you say -- well, there's a time there through the Throat. Have you ever been through a Grub? Well, have you seen the canyons? After all, you can laugh as much as you want, but it says how much you don't respect the citizens of Serbia and how much you don't respect them and the performers of the work that you're taking on crocodile tears. Well, here, Mr. Mircic, you're an older colleague, you teach Mr. Miljan, geographically. It's not the same thing, making way to Blykovac, where it's less, low and making highways through the Grill where your canyons are, like there on Sutjesca, Tentište, etc. You have to take care of that. After all, I know it is the job of the opposition to seek hair in the egg to the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Minister. So you said the day after that, the next day you said something else, so the deadlines were set in a month or two or three. What is a fact, it is that no government before the government of Aleksandar Vukic, or before the government of Ana Brnabic, has built as many highways as it has been built over the past few years. Are they always respected deadlines, which are planned? Probably not, but it's probably not possible in many situations. Could anyone have planned that during May and June this year this amount of rain would fall? It couldn't be expected. No serious weather forecast could predict that, and that happened to us. You remember 2014 and we talk about May floods all the time, remember at the end of 2014 there were also floods in eastern Serbia, which also blocked works in that part of our country? You have an unremembered flood today. By yesterday you had an unremembered flood, precisely on these shares that we're talking about today, about Chačka, Požega, Kraljev, Gornji Milanovac, etc. Then you come to the assembly and then, like, you say that, and you say that. Excuse me, who can make the highway when 100 liters of rain per square metre falls in one day? Well, it's unremembered rains, you could only read about it in the old vows, and unfortunately it's happening now in Serbia, because the climate is destroyed, and it's one of the important factors that are and how they made it difficult to perform work and respect the deadlines. After all, I will end up with Mr. Arsic, the gentleman who spoke before me, what he has repeatedly kept silent, and allegedly wants to inform Serbian citizens, and this is what Mrs. Mihajlovic has repeated at least 10 times today, and you are constantly talking about the price difference. First it was 500 million, and now it's 800 million. At first, it was planned to just build a highway, and now it's going to be an arrangement, a complete editing of the West Morava trough, and I hope that you can assume how extensive and important a project is for that part of Serbia and for those citizens who live in that part of Serbia, that Morava is no longer blue, that we no longer have a flood problem, that finally we build up a dikes that will sustain these Bible floods that unfortunately happen to us and plus a complete, state-of-the-art telecommunications network. Of course it collects the final price. It's not the same thing when you're just making a trip, so along the way, it's pouring into West Morava, so you're making these people who live there with a modern and modern telecommunications system, so they can use phones when it rains, not as soon as it rains, people can't call their neighbor, or they don't have the Internet. It's all foreseen by this project and of course it collects at one price, but it's normal, it's just not possible that one service costs 500 million, and then two extra maltenes are given to you by someone. There's no gift here. What is important is that Serbia today can also be in charge of the implementation of this project, but under conditions I hope that the citizens of Serbia understand it well, under conditions far more favourable than they were in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Here some mocked the statement that our bonds now arrive, the interest of a little more than one percent will be paid, and sometimes they were paid at 7%, 8%, and that is what it says about the strength of the Serbian economy. That tells us how much we managed to recover our public finances. After all, when you take credit for the construction of the highway, then you even arrange the West Morava trough, so you do a telecommunications network, it's not a mere cost, it's not a waste of money. It's an investment in Serbia's future. We keep talking about it, let's fix the situation in certain parts of Serbia, let's get people from Cačka and Gornji Milanovac, Požega, Arlja, Ivanjica, etc. Not everyone comes to Belgrade, but to stay in their seats. This is a way to do it, one way to stop their Western Morava blue, fields, houses, garages, plastics, so that people have a modern telecommunications network. What if only Belgrade had the privilege of having a quality internet, which would not have been the citizens of Cačka, Gornji Milanovac, Požega, Ivanjica, etc? So all these facts you have to take care of when you're talking about such an important project. One more thing to tell you, I'm older than you, so I almost forgot, and you say who believes Zorani Mihajlovic that what she said today about deadlines will be fulfilled? It writes to you, since you have probably not read the bill in detail, in Article 6 and I ask you to pay attention to that member, and perhaps he is one of the most important in this bill and that Serbian citizens should understand it well. "The proposal for expropriation shall be submitted no later than three years from the date of entry into force of this law." Thus, a maximum period of three years has been prescribed, from the date of entry into force of this law, and in transitional and final provisions it is prescribed that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”. So the deadlines can't be shorter. The deadlines are as short as possible, and we will pass this bill, or we will pass this law, because it prescribes much shorter deadlines for the expropriation process, because we will no longer allow the state of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, or those who will be entities of expropriation, or whose properties will be subject to expropriation, to put us in a situation, to move into such a large infrastructure project, without having previously solved all property-legal issues. With this bill of law, we solve all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56056	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56057	This is just amazing. You just gave your colleague Martinovic a word based on the replica. That's what you said, the replica, Alexander Martinovic. That replica lasts two minutes. Don't nod. On what basis did you give? You said the replica, and there's no other basis. This is really the ultimate insolence to let him talk for 10 minutes. I repeat the millionth time, we don't mind and we stand up to end this time limit, but they can't just be abolished for the MPs of the government, but they must then be abolished for everything, and now that Miljan is reporting for the replica, I assume he's answered, let him go, maybe he'll speak for three minutes, maybe five, maybe 12, maybe 19, as much as he wants, as you just released Martinovic. You have to take care of your dignity, your personal self, first of all, because we were just hoping that Sam Fabrizio put you in line, but it's not worth it, your force hit your ears again. You're acting on the system again, we might, we don't care. No, it's not like that. It's not good behavior, 'cause it's a head-to-head thing. Are you going to let again as the little children line you up with Sam Fabrizio and kick your pucks and then you get in line, so now we have the agenda, but here you have a problem again, you don't respect the Rules of Procedure again. Don't worry, we won't report you to Sam Fabrizia because we don't care about his opinion, and we report you to the citizens of Serbia, we warn you and warn you to the people not to discriminate between the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition. Your power is that you have 126 or 156, but I am talking about the minimum vote, which will be passed by Zorana Mihajlović, whatever she is, and any minister. It's the only force you can apply here. We have to be even in everything else. Please, colleague Arsic, you seem sleepy, if you have a problem running the session, I'm here fresh, rested, just say, I'll come without any problems I'll continue, we're in the same function.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56058	Radeta's counterpart, overrun by counterpart Martinovic, will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. You probably don't care about that. (Miss Radeta: What member? But let me finish, I listened to you, you told me to look tired, and in fact I listened to you. Please, today and during the day, there was a series of replicas, as I recall, and you participated in them and colleague Jovanovic, minister, etc. Did I once interrupt any of yours or you as ambassadors while the replicas lasted, and they lasted longer than two minutes? Milorad Mircic: Yes, but it doesn't matter. I'm responsible for what I'm doing. I apply my criteria in interpreting the Rules of Procedure, my colleague does not have to support himself. But no one can tell me that I'm a fellow MP today, and they've been talking to each other for a significant number of minutes, and I've interrupted him, in the sense that I turned off his microphone or that I've disturbed his discussion in any way. So, as I did not interfere with my colleague Martinovic, I did not interfere with you or my colleague Jovanovic, you are alone because I approach the electronic units and microphones and say here we end up. But I didn't really ask you to. Okay. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day? I want a microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56059	In response to whether or not I want the Assembly to plead, allow me just one sentence before that. Please don't take time away from the parliamentary group, because it's not our position, but just act like it as you chair all the MPs, and let us talk as much as we want, because if you took Martinovic's time, and for that you have no basis, we would have to react to the Rules of Procedure again. So, he said nine minutes, let's, we don't mind, just let us talk as much or as much as we want, and don't plead in the course of voting on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56060	My colleague, I am unable to do this because the system does it independently of the chairman. So it's really a matter of technique, I'm really not able to. Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't have a problem, not two, five and nine, it was nice to listen to an older colleague, Martinovic, he was probably an SRS intern longer than I was, so I had something to learn. But thank God one thing I didn't learn from him, and that's twisting the truth. I didn't speak for a moment about any floods, I didn't say it was difficult, I spoke and read official information, those given by Zorana Mihajlovic to the following media you say are against Vukic. These are the TV "Telemark" from Cačka, Beta Agency, Tanjug Agency, RTS, TV "Pink". So, since you have the prospect of who it is for whom, I have read official statements that no one has ever made from the show where she spoke or made Zorana Mihajlovic give any deadlines. And to remind you of one more thing, from experience, because of the law proposed by the resolution ministry, which is chaired by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, we have only failed laws today. Here, I tell you, check the law on legalisation by Minister Mihajlovic, when the law was passed, where she said - By 31 December 2015, we will solve the complete legalisation problem throughout Serbia and 80% in Belgrade. 8% has been resolved up to a year ago in Belgrade, the solutions you've made. Don't honor me and put some words I didn't say. From practice and a statement from everything that's been going on, I've led this to the belief that it will be done as it is done. Of course, I've read the whole law and it's not a problem, because wherever it says in the law that legalization is over four years ago, and it's just about to start because it hasn't moved any further since the beginning. We reminded Zorana Mihajlović of 20 years of legalisation problems, brought her a suitable cake, a gift and a solution to the SRS, but personally she did not want to receive me. I, Mr. Martinovic, am not Balsa Bozovic. Balša Bozovic is your student, coming to your lectures, so talk to him, since he is not coming to the Assembly. There is no need for you to defend Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who is spoken of by me, I have what else and what else to talk to her about. First, you as a graduate lawyer know well that the basic source of corruption is anywhere, not only in Serbia and the world, anywhere where the largest financial resources are concerned with the type of capital. We in Serbia have a situation where the minister has a salary, correct me 700, 800, 900 euros, each minister has a different one, so I believe it's not a higher salary, and it's doing 800 million jobs. On the other hand, you are avoiding the fact that the public procurement process is excluded from this law where the Law on Public Procurement insists and requires respect for the direction of economics, transparency, competitiveness, these are members: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. The law on public procurement, then the members of 7 and 7a, who speak only in which situations cannot be used by the Public Procurement Act, and we rule out this law and say - no rules governing the public procurement procedure in Article 17 are applied, and that amounts, whether 500, 600, 700 million, billion euros, are entirely irrelevant. Where's the principle of competitiveness? You have decided with your personal charm, charmed a company to look down the price and work quality for Serbia. Please don't, in doing so, what I read to Mr. Martinovic, I did read to him, so you had Minister Kalanovic, so Minister Zorana Mihajlović, in the same seven years, and the laws of this one I speak of and which I quote you bring. Then you must obey the law. What's here now, again, the evil radicals that are being called, I don't understand. When you were talking about highways, a mile of highways are big. Did someone tell you today that it's no good making highways? I speak for statements, Mr. Martinovic and the ministers present today. You are without any need to divulge your data all the time, for example RTS, this TV that hates Alexander Vukic, 26. Seventy-seven. In 2017, said Zorana Mihajlovic – We have 200km of highways more than three years ago, and in November we expect the end of the works on the part of the Serbian House - Levosoje on the southern arms of Corridor 10. And we don't get lazy, we get your data from the Ministry on that day, here's your data where it says - a total of miles per day 31. 07.2017, you have 123.5. Is it 12.5 kilometers long? Yeah, well done! Did you say 200 kilometers? Yes, it is. You've disavowed the public. And now you're gonna honor me for saying something that isn't?- I'm sorry. Do those 66.5km of highways, take a picture, boast, boast when you do something right, even if it's quality, even if it's not expensive and what's most important, even if you respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and this House, no one will criticise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56062	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56063	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here are trying to present how this is the first case that the strategic partner for the construction of the highway is determined by a direct contract, not by public procurement. Citizens of Serbia, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, and not because of you, I think you know this, through a direct contract, the Treaty on the construction of appropriate highways through Serbia with the company Azvirt from Azerbaijan, with one company from Turkey and several Chinese companies has been concluded. Therefore, this is not the first case that the contract is concluded, i.e. the strategic partner is found without the application of public procurement regulations. Thanks to Serbia's government without public procurement, but with adequate quality of work in Serbia today the Russians, Azerbaijani, Turks and Chinese should know that. As for the length of the highways, i.e. kilometers of highways built from 2014 to 2018, I told you that it is 400 and almost 446km. You stopped with some date in the summer of 2017, and you mentioned to us that today is June 26, 2019. So, I remind you that, in the meantime, since June or July 2017, by the end of 2018, we have built many more miles of highways that you seem to have forgotten. What is also important to say, you say because a strategic partner is not chosen through the application of the Public Procurement Act, who guarantees us the quality of the works? Well, this is prescribed by law, that is, the bill that we are talking about today, so in Article 18, it writes nicely – expert control and review committee from Article 131. The planning and construction laws may, when assessing the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in specific rules, standards and other acts, accept proof of compliance by both the regulations and standards of foreign states, as well as by recognised international methods of budgets and models, provided that those regulations and standards provide for the fulfilment of basic requirements for the facility, i.e. basic requirements for its design, implementation and maintenance. Therefore, the bill clearly attributes to the control mechanism, not only when performing the work, but also when designing. To remind the citizens of Serbia again, since you seem to have deliberately failed to do so, it is well written in the light of the Bill – floods took place in May 2014. After these floods, a restoration of flooded areas in Serbia followed. Because of the floods and the consequences of the floods, it had to start practically from the start of projecting this section of the highway, where this new design meant not only the construction of this section of the highway, so not only the construction of the road infrastructure, but also over 40km of embankment along the West Morava, plus the construction of the entire length of the route of modern, modern, telecommunications network. This is important for Serbian citizens to know that this bill will not only get the highway, it will be provided by swimming when it comes to Western Morava, and you know what a problem it is and plus we will have a modern telecommunications network in this part of Serbia. It's something I think is vital not only for that part of Serbia, but for all of Serbia. Where good luck is that next time and every time we make a new section of the highway wherever that problem arises, we can also solve the question of the river spilling, whether it is West Morava, Great Morava, South Morava, Danube, Sava, Kolubara, Tamnava, it is not important, therefore, to resolve the final issue of these dikes, as well as President Vukic. So we don't have a problem just with the big rivers anymore, because now it turns out that the problem in Serbia is not big water streams like Sava and Danube, but small words that, due to the large amount of rainfall, just flood everyone around them. We, among other things, solve this problem with this bill. For hundreds of years, to be fair, Serbia has failed to address the issue of swimming in Pomorava. We are now dealing with this bill, as we are going to solve all the other issues that have been raised these days as current, where small streams of water streams, due to the abundant amount of rainfall, create a disaster for the citizens who live by these water streams. As far as legalization is concerned, you say, it's formally legal, it's called legislation, so you've been talking about legislation for 20 years, some anniversary of the legalisation problem in Serbia. Serbia has a problem with illegal construction not 20, more than 100 years. Among other things, one of the problems, or one of the causes that led to these floods, is now the other day in the Palilula municipality in settlements such as Ovca, Borča and Krgnač, it is precisely illegal construction. Are you telling us now that Zorana Mihajlovic is responsible for this illegal construction? That Alexander Wolf is responsible? That Goran Vesic is responsible? Well, of course not. Do you think that these problems that have arisen for years in Ovca, Borca, Krgnaci, Kaludjerica, Grocko and many other parts of Belgrade, and not only Belgrade, but Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Kraljevska, Nisa, etc., can be solved by slapping your hand on the palm of your hand? It would be nice if it were possible, but it's not possible. What is important and what I think Serbian citizens understand well, we have created legal mechanisms and provided financial resources to solve these problems year after year. If we had not implemented fiscal consolidation 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, do you think it would be possible to restore Serbia in such a short period of time as we did only during this year? Here, we'll also solve the issue of sewers and fecal and rainy sewers in the Palilu municipality this and next year, but these are inherited problems. You can't be the problem that was inherited from 20, 30 or 50 years ago to say – hey, you, Zorana Mihajlovic, why didn't you solve it in a year? There's no wizard who can solve that problem. I'm grateful to you that you've detected the problem, is the problem of illegal construction, is the problem that maybe we haven't built more miles of highways than we planned. Thank you for reminding us that we have not always met the deadlines that we have set for ourselves, but sorry, no one can say that Aleksandar Vukic, that Zorana Mihajlovic, that people from the Serbian government, that people from the "The Way of Serbia", that people from "Serbia" did not do their day and night work. They did, and that's what the citizens of Serbia see. We can still laugh now, quote statements, take out when someone said, we can. I understand you as an opposition MP, it's your job, but the work of these government people is much harder. Their job is to work. It's their job to build highways. Their job is, after all, to build highways that are absolutely safe, to have fewer deaths on the highways, to keep our highways quality, to last for 30, 40, 50 years, not to cause problems after a year or two, as was the case by 2012. So, I do not dispute your right to criticise, but I think Serbian citizens understand that it is much easier to criticise than to be operational, work and solve problems for which you are not responsible, but that have fallen into your heritage, because in 2012, you have taken over a completely ruined state, I am talking about a central state, and plus, you have taken over a whole series of local self-governments that have been completely devastated, such as the city of Belgrade, or as some parts of Belgrade, where you have not had a sewerage for years, where the year has flourished wild construction, where no one has tried to solve this problem, and you are now blaming all the blame on those who are trying, but really trying to solve it. Well, I'd be the luckiest man in the world, same as you. I want the good of the state of Serbia as well as you, and the city of Belgrade. If all the problems of the city of Belgrade, all the problems of Cačka, Kralje, Gornji Milanovac, etc. could be resolved in seven days or 15 days. Unfortunately, I can't. They haven't been solved in years. We built more highways than it was built since the release of Yugoslavia in 1945 until today. It's a great success, it's a great success. In this regard, despite your constant statements that some great Eurofanatics, as we speak, although you have never heard from Alexander Vukic that sentence, that the EU has no alternative, that is what some others have said, we are the ones who opened the Serbian toll market, to call it that, and our friends from Russia and our friends from China and our friends from Azerbaijan. No one else did this to Aleksandra Vukic, until Zorana Mihajlovic was able to do it. I think the citizens of Serbia see it and that the citizens of Serbia understand it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56064	Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56065	Mr. Martinovic, it is indeed a privilege to discuss with you, not because you have now explained things to me further, because, I repeat, I did not say what you were saying, we can also take a stenogram, but it is not a problem and it is not appropriate for Serbian citizens to hear all of these and on your part the facts that you have presented and again to answer. Miljan Damjanovic, no SRS MP, nor SRS President Prof. Vojislav Seselj went public and said, quote -- this law that we are passing by 31 December 2015 will complete the legalisation process in Belgrade 80%, in the rest of Serbia completely. Is the law only a good law if it doesn't apply, that's where we'll agree, there'll be bad results in the field. Right? The same day that it was said, we are here in the Assembly, there was Minister Zorana Mihajlović, I was also talking about when it was the House Bill, and we were talking about examples from the field and numbers. At that moment, the city of Belgrade, as a unit of local self-government, because municipalities in Belgrade, rather than the city, had only one Secretariat for legalisation. I'm proud of the fact that two years ago we pointed to you and what the City Assembly is now, if I'm not mistaken, until July 15, harmonizes the Statute of the City, the amendments, with that law that returns partly to municipalities, central to 400 squares, this second one, I guess up to 4,000, correct me if I'm wrong, it doesn't matter. But it's been two years. So, I haven't said one moment – Zorana did it and that or why she didn't. She, I quote, then she gave the bill and said – in seven days, when it comes into force, these solutions will come to a solution in 15 months. What's the fact? The solution and the positive results have not occurred. When, Mr. Martinovic, I was talking about the Public Procurement Act, why did I mention it? You remember that exactly your current party in the city of Belgrade has won elections in time on the subject. If I'm not mistaken, the previous government, the government of Dragan Gilas, has left a debt of over a billion and a hundred, as many as 108, 110m euros, however the SNS has then laid down as a basic that it will pass the Public Procurement Act, which everyone will have to respect and that just by applying the Public Procurement Act, the annual city will save up to a billion, or for one term four billion. Did I lie about what I said? I don't recall, Mr. Martinovic, I'm saying that you can't say at some point – this is where Gilas was and because he didn't apply the Public Procurement Act was wrong. But here, in law, we have introduced a member of 18 who has abolished the Public Procurement Act. We're not interested in transparency, we're not interested in economic and efficiency, we're not interested in anything that says in that law, we're not interested in members of the 7th or 7th of that law, we're not interested in members of 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 of that law, let's go because we're going to solve this faster. When I was talking about this data, that's why I'm talking, if we were late for the flood first, and it was late for some projects, and it was late for this, and then it gave up on the Chinese, so there were some Americans, so now it's completely hypothetical for this story, let's forget it. You say, "This is what we want to speed up." Well, if seven years since you were in power, when you first said it - starts next year, nothing disputed will happen if we respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia until the end. I insist on that. And those examples that you told us, that there were besides these and they didn't follow the laws, means that the practice wasn't introduced by the SRS, it was you. Then don't judge others who didn't respect the laws. Let me remind you of another very important thing. When you were talking about the floods, did I say something once? Well, I'm not as crazy as Dragan Gilas or that Jeremy guy saying it was the state that was so stormy. Have you read anywhere from any of the Serbian radicals that any statement has been made or attacked by the authorities over these matters? Only a crazy man could do it. But let's say another thing. When you mentioned Ovca, Borč and Krnjak, we are participating in that power with you, Mr Martinovic, the SRS and we are well aware of the problem of sewage. It can't be solved in a year, it can't be solved. Do you know why? Because it had previously ruled the DS for ten and more years and because every election on the left bank was won with a promise to solve the sewer, seven kilometers from the Prince of Michael, and they didn't solve it. And we fought the DS elections in Palilu, and SNS and SRS and SPS, which is in the coalition with us. What's the problem? We have come up with a problem that the municipality's jurisdiction is not to deal with major infrastructure problems, although we have identified. What could we do? We could've cleaned the canals. Did we, Mr. Martinovic, do that? Everyone can say, every citizen and sheep and Borce and Krgnac, what was up to us and influence public enterprises, city public enterprises. Channeling is a process, it can't be solved in a year. Tomorrow you decide, today, to meet the government, the projects and everything else, for a minimum of 3, 4 years. I'm just saying this like before, all the time, let's not give those dates that we can't respect. The deadlines aren't there to make the people breathe easier and say... well, great, they'll be over in six months. It's no shame, here, I'm telling you, in front of that coalition in Palilu, as a Serbian radical, it can't, it takes three, four, five years. It can't be in a year, because that was the legacy of the Democratic Party. Nothing better in other municipalities has ever waited for us. It was done the way it was done, they saw that whoever came to power, they didn't go to jail. The D.A. doesn't do his job. I don't know if you've been there last time. It's been 15 days. I've been setting an example here. How did a billion go missing? By not reacting to the state. And everything, if by law, people get building permits, everything's fine. But there's a little problem. They go to the Directorate, they don't pay the dinars, the building is finished, right, the Directorate says, let's do it for 12 months, 20, 60, no matter what, the programme, they pay the first war, meanwhile the sale of apartments, the company is shut down and the Directorate is damaged, for just four years the government of the Democratic Party, for a billion dinars, and in this legacy and the problem remains the municipality of Voždovac, because of the construction that you can't even legalize, so the problem of parking, the problem of travel infrastructure, the problem of sewers, the problem of the plumbing and everything else that happened. I was just saying why give, and read the deadlines, which you're aware you'll break? Even, it doesn't have to stand in the law -- we guarantee, if it is said, that by that day it will be over. So does the minister stand to say, "Here, I'll take a deep breath over their heads, but it has to end by August 15th." Well, why don't you take a deep breath over their heads? Why is he here today? Let's have the 16th, and let's give it up, bravo, you're done on the 15th. Did I at one point in my first exposure insult anything I said about any mile of highway? It's a mile long if we know nothing's been built since 2000, not 120, 200 and 400. But there must be one thing - if we have laws, let's respect the laws. If, as resolute minister, you make promises with your team, respect what you said, and don't, if you sometimes don't know the answer, you're with your colleague Mircic more than once while you're discussing, discussing and saying, I have no idea. Okay, and if you have no idea, it's no big deal. But don't go out there, live in the program or anywhere, and I give you information, and then you're surprised we're criticizing you. Believe me, here, this is all prepared for what you've been saying, since there are 20 million more cars, so they're crowded, so we get official information from you that it's 10 million, the next day from your ministry, and now I'm not counting all that. There's no need for that. Say, I don't know, we'll let you know tomorrow. You'll get an answer from the Ministry. Don't make public false. And please, none of you can decide when you're going to put some law out of effect, just so you can speed up some process. First you change the law, if it wasn't good, put it in the law that it can be done, but then it applies to all levels of state administration, both local and urban and regional, and republican, and not here to create evil blood. Serbian citizens need highways, both for business and for tourism and economic and, after all, just because they will get somewhere faster. Why would I travel for three hours, if I could take an hour and a half on the highway, which will be over, 180 kilometers? Well, of course we'll say - bravo. But we don't just agree on why we do it this way. That's what the Democratic Party used to do. I'm talking rhetorically because they didn't do anything in the field. You do something in the field, but you do it right. And once again, and to finish, you can't say, it's normal, by direct contract, for seven years you've been telling the public that we got the best offers from the Chinese, you're speaking publicly for the banks we got, you're publicly saying how much, all that, and then all that information comes up and says, he met with that and that ambassador, all right? Of course we'll get into a discussion like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56066	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56067	To get this session into some normal business flows, please, Mr. Arsic, stop me when the monitor shows that, based on the replica I've reported, I've been talking for more than two minutes, no matter what sentence I'm on. What I'm saying is, the biggest abuses in Serbia during 2008, especially in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, took place under the law on public procurement. In Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic carried out all public procurement and behind every public procurement there was corruption, there was a lack of work, and personal wealth was hidden. Therefore, the application of the Public Procurement Act itself is not a guarantee that there will be no abuse. That's one thing. Another thing, no one suspends in Serbia the Public Procurement Act. This is just one of the exceptions. As we have made exceptions to Russian, Chinese, Azerbaijani companies, we will make an exception in this case, just to speed up the process of building an important section of the highway that passes through this part of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the Law on Public Procurement also applies in the city of Belgrade, also for local self-government authorities, and also for state authorities. But when international agreements predict the choice of a strategic partner to perform or design so that works can be done... (Miss Radeta: Done.) Is it two minutes? I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56068	You had 20 seconds left. The SRS are getting it. I'm trying to say something, but I can't. So, my colleague Martinovic came to me and said that when they expired exactly two minutes ago, I would stop him. During that time... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) During that time, colleagues of Radeta began to calculate seconds. That's the 20 seconds he was talking to me, he wasn't in a replica. The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56069	I listened to what you were saying, so now I think, not because of you definitely, because it's standardly become half true, that half the truth of all possible topics is, and when all of this gets mixed up like that, then probably citizens, when they listen to it, then probably who knows what they can conclude. Because as you have your attitude, so do I again to say what the facts are, what the arguments are and what they are, what they're doing, what they're doing. I will try, of course, to deal with other matters as little as possible, and to deal first and foremost with what is today, and that is the bill on the Moravia Corridor. Before that, about the statements, we're just going by some of the statements you said and I'm going to explain some things to you. First of all, I'll always be speaking deadlines, no matter how much it cost me. It is one of the ways that things end faster in Serbia and when I believe those deadlines can be, I believe, above all, compared to what the Serbian government is doing. When you mention, say, Preljina – Pozega Share, which was supposed to start building last year, we waited for a year and a half for approval from China's Exim Bank so that the loan could be effective and that we could really start the works. Everything the Serbian government had to do, the Serbian government did, the commercial contract was signed and there was no reason on that side that the works could not begin. However, it took quite a long time to obtain credit from China's Exim Bank, not again because something the Serbian government did not do, but because it appeared in the meantime and there some additional amongst the institutions that were checking out the loan documentation, and that took a long time, and that was why, for example, Preljina – Požega did not start in 2018, when you mentioned, for example. Something like that. For example, you mentioned Ub – Likovac and the deadline of June 28th, which we said, and if it hadn't been since April of the month, so, since 20th and some April almost every day of rain, it would have been truly respected. The contract itself contains 60 sunny days must be in order for these 13 sections of Ub – Lykovac to be really finished. I mean, there's got to be a lot of objective reasons why a certain deadline that we've said and given may not be respected, but I'm going to keep saying it, because that's how all the services, all the institutions, all the businesses, and wherever we can put extra pressure on things to end earlier. Because we are interested in really ending everything we started or inherited, and rather problematicly, we are really solving it as soon as possible, aware that it is vital for the citizens of Serbia to have a path, a rail, to have arranged airports, etc. Next, what you mentioned, you mentioned shares. So two things are important. Then when you asked the ministry for information and received information from the ministry, how many miles of roads were completed. So, I think the difference you made with the statement is whether the path is in function or whether it's being put into traffic or not. But on today, so if I have to, and now I'm going to read you the shares. What's important from all the conversations, from everything you've said, so you can hold onto every statement, but the point is what the citizens of Serbia and what each of us, and we're all citizens of Serbia, can see -- that's over 300km of highways that have been done over the past four years. It's all these tracks, it's trained airports, it's water traffic that invests that much money. So that's what we see. Whatever you're saying about me, whatever you're saying about whether or not I said on one television this or what, the essence is at the end of a physical mile of highway, 300 kilometers of highway, 600 kilometers of track, that's what's most important. That there's a problem in realisation, there is. Our job is to solve these problems. So, we'll deliver by stock, so we don't waste any time now. What I think is important – tenders. Since you've come to the conclusion that the essence of this law or the story of the American company is so that the American company enters a small door into this market. Now let's explain it a little bit, because it's not like that. So this law is before you MPs, because it creates conditions for a project that is of strategic public interest to this country, for the citizens of this country, to be realised faster and more effectively from the beginning to the end. This law is in accordance with the Constitution, this is the law, so this is not arbitrary will or sitting, as you say, with some ambassador and with some company and a deal about some future job, I really don't know, maybe someone used to do it, maybe that's how it was done, but the Serbian government, the ministry I run, just doesn't work like that. There are laws according to which we, first of all, work and that is our obligation, under number one. So this law creates conditions for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to first define criteria for the choice of a strategic partner, if we talk about it, and then, depending on those who apply, and can meet such criteria, the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses a potential future strategic partner. Tenders. Everything that has been done in the infrastructure in the last four years, even one or more, I don't count on Corridor 10, is done on the basis of international strategic agreements with, I repeat, I think that many of them have said that, with, above all, agreements with the People's Republic of China, with their companies "Sirbisi", "Shandong" and others, then with the Russian Federation and taking credit, so from the Russian state, this previously from the Chinese State, so also Russian companies, such as the Russian railways, which are one of the world's best companies, if we talk about the railways, Azerbaijan, loans with Azerbaijan, Azerbaijani, Azerbaijani-German companies "Azvirt", Turkey, or the Turkish company, which, for example, will do Novi Pazar – Tutin's share, will work among other Sremska Račs – Kuzmin's Autoway, which are based on the rules, which are based on which are based on the rules, which are based on the criteria, which are based on which are based on the criteria, which are based on the criteria. Here we have, on this earlier point, meaning: China, Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, an international agreement, then a proposal from the state with which we are talking, negotiations on a commercial agreement. After that, a financial contract from the banks of those countries. So there were no public procurements. Each, too, of these contracts, which is very important, finds that participation by Serbian companies is 48.49% in each of these contracts. Is it the railway, the fast track of Belgrade – Budapest, whether it is Preljina – Požega, whether it is this share on Corridor 11, etc. Everywhere, Serbian companies are placed in commercial contracts as an obligation to work on those shares to everyone I mentioned. So when you talk about tenders then we have to have a whole picture of how infrastructure works, what it looked like with these countries. Then we have Corridor 10 where we had international financial institutions, IBRD, World Bank, EIB, etc. where there were international tenders under the rules of those international financial institutions. Unfortunately, Corridor 10 has really worked too long. There's been a lot of trouble here. Many companies got jobs and went bankrupt. After all, the first "Alpine" mentioned in Vojvodina, to the company Trace, with which we broke the contract because the company failed to meet the contract, so the Serbian house "Levosoj" was financed from the budget afterwards. The infrastructure in Serbia in order to be able to work as quickly as possible and build our opinion was that it also required a special law to try to avoid all possible and impossible, so to speak, the problems we encountered in the previous years, and for the result, Serbian citizens now have 300, or more than 300km of highways and will have five new highways that we are starting to work with. So there's a big difference, and I just think you have to know all the circumstances to talk about -- you know, this is wrong or here you, I don't know, you've made this statement, and it's not like that. The point is what we got because according to the law and whether our companies work and since we talked about it, all these conditions and all these criteria are truly fulfilled. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56070	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56071	Article 107 concerning Article 116 This is me because of you. I'm afraid that maybe Marinika Tepic isn't looking at this Assembly so she can report back to Fabrizia, so she wasn't in your skin. You must take care, my dear fellow vice president, it happened during the day and to Mr. Marinkovic, and now it has happened to Mr. Arsic. You must know that we are MPs, that MPs have an obligation to criticise the government and members of the government, to seek opinion, to make their views on their work, literally control the entire government and ministers individually. You had to react, first Marinkovic, and now Arsic, when Minister Zorana Mihajlovic said twice today that she was responsible not for the MP he asked, but for the public. She can think whatever she wants about the MP she asked, but she must answer exactly the questions of the MPs and not only of Zorana Mihajlovic. He refers to every minister. Come on, if you're going to introduce democracy and apply as much as this super-supervisory Rules of Procedure, you're doing it as well as you can. Nothing hurts if you interrupt Mrs. Mihajlović and say – please, you must answer to the MP. The MPs address the general public, and through the questions we ask the minister, we send messages to the public and we insist that the minister responds to us in order to also send a message to the public. Just please, just more because of you, so you don't run after Fabrizio again so you don't get in your ears by who knows which way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56072	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56073	Mrs. Mihajlović, I don't know what I've earned so much to be so arrogant about and you're saying in the beginning that I've made false, half-truths and I've thrown some kind of information. Get a stenogram to see how you started. You said I was telling lies, half-truths, and I was dropping some information. Mrs. Mihajlovic, because you are at the head of the ministry, I said at first, thanked you for entering the dialogue with the SRS MPs, because it is normal, unlike those ministers who are silent, come here, sit down and leave. On the other hand, I haven't made any half-truths and none of them true. I asked you not to record those cameras, say one, take a stenogram, I was talking about what you were as a resolution minister then giving signs, promises, when it will end. You know, that reminds me of that Vuciceva thing when he said that and that protest there were 2746 people. When he made you speak June 15th, 28, It's gonna be this year, it's gonna be by the end of the summer, it doesn't matter. You keep answering us like we're against building infrastructure in Serbia. It's a complete lie. It's a complete lie. And we wish the citizens of Serbia the best. It's just normal, you wouldn't sit here and not go around and talk to them. When we spoke, and all my colleagues before me, we said exactly what we were getting and getting out of the public. When I, and you skipped that, when I was talking about Bechtel, I was just telling concrete examples and writing what the German press was, what the rest of them were. I didn't tell the truth or the half-truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56074	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56075	I've only had one comment on the number of cars left, which I think again when you get information, simply when you ask them to come from the Ministry, I probably don't know what the date is, but these are among other things, and statistics, as well as data from the Ways of Serbia, hence, and the Ministry. Car traffic, because it's something I think the real sign is really, how many roads are done and how important it is for the country, and that's why I keep pointing it out. So in 2012, 34.4 million cars were on Corridor 10, 2018, so we didn't take the first six months of 2019, there were 5.3 million cars. So, compared to the total traffic of the vehicle in 2018 compared to 2007, it's 67% growth. I think that's what I've been trying to say all along. We can find a million, reasons, comments, to read everything that's being transmitted in any newspaper one way or another, but the bottom line is really what's been done and also, the bottom line is what it means for citizens and for all those who use Corridor 10. On the one hand, some of the things that are declared can be interpreted in one way or another and depending on the time they are declared. But in the end, the data can't be changed, there can't be lies, that's how it is. And we really should all be proud of the number of kilometers we've built as a state and everything we start doing this year. That's why this Moravia corridor is so important. These highways are also important, three more, four highways that we're starting this year. Imagine you government starting to work in one year four highways and starting next year the fifth highway. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I repeat once again, I will always speak them, and I will always push as many deadlines as possible to be respected, no matter whether anyone uses those sentences, which can definitely be political against me. So, because I said one deadline, and it's not fully respected, but I'm going to use it because it's a way to push all institutions, performers, monitors, all possible people involved in a particular infrastructure project, and that's a very large number of institutions in our country that deal with a single project. I apologize if I've been long.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56076	Right on line, MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56077	First, I'm glad we came to the conclusion that I wasn't telling the truth or the half-truth, but only the truth, but Mrs. Mihajlovic, here we go again. I'll give you your information. So when I said I prepared, I don't know why that nonstop glorification. I will read to you – TV “First”, 16.7.2018. means 2018 – the main reason for the crowd is that along our roads there are many more vehicles than it has ever been. So 20 million cars more Serbia today has than two years ago, so 2016. No one said it was bad that it was 53 million Mrs. Mihajlovic, but the problem was that in 2016 it was 43 million. So, not 20 million more, it was 10 million more. Here's your information from the Ministry that it was $43 million. Please don't take your data from the Ministry. That's what I was saying. I didn't say there was a little vehicle. It's great, with 37 million as much as it was in 2014, it jumped to 53 million in 2018, but not to 63 as you said. Then immediately after a few days you were visiting the RTS and confirmed it again. I didn't say it wasn't right that there's a lot of cars. Just tell me, did I say it was wrong? I didn't. In 2018, you said that 20 million vehicles were more than two years ago, and in 2016, "Serbian Roads" as far as it went, here is 43 million data. In that sense, I told you. I wish it was 100 million, so why don't we take more than toll, rebuild roads and build roads. It's our common interest. Just tell me, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56078	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56079	I will quote To Him; time is a master's solution; he will purify these things, and the little things will entertain children.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56080	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56081	Here's the thing. So, first of all, I thought you were saying that I made that statement in 2016. So you're saying I made that statement in 2018. So, the citizens of Serbia, this is the thing. In 2018, I said that 20 million cars were more than two years ago. Compared to 2018, I was thinking about 2012 when it was 20 million more villa. Therefore, in 2018 compared to 2012. Are you going to tell me now that the problem was 20 million, and what did I say instead of 2012, say 2014? I think it's a much smaller problem. A much bigger problem would be if we didn't have those vehicles, and we really have over 20 million cars anymore. Therefore, if you really want to talk about Serbia's progress and infrastructure, then give concrete things to improve. Whether I said it in my interview in 2018 now in July we have 20 million cars more than two, or thinking four years ago, I apologize, excuse me, but I really think it's a much smaller mistake than that as a traffic minister I didn't help, I did and created the conditions to be 20 million cars more in the period since I was appointed and I still am a traffic minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56082	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56083	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a wonderful discussion two hours ago. We've heard all about legalization and everything and it's fine. What you ministers should pay attention to, and everyone in your ministry is this map that you've brought here, to see nicely, to let the cameras record what has been done, what has been done and what is done and what is going to be done. A colleague, Arsic, reminded me of his story of self-delivery from 1978, 1979, and it was wonderful that he mentioned it. In those years, we had the Brethren-unity from Devdelija and up to Sezana, next to Belgrade, and all towards Nis and Devgelija were concrete blocks, so when you were driving, you seemed to be on the train, not in the car. It was working, and then as a high school student I traveled a little to Trieste, our favorite destination, worked a little in Croatia around Okučana. A part in front of Zagreb and a half highway in Slovenia. What do we have now? At one point when I saw the map, I remembered the "evening news" precisely from those years where there was a path that was now blue-red and it was a highway to the southern Adriatic, Belgrade-South Adriatic, as it was then called. And then there was the discussion of whether it would be the left leg, the right leg, whether towards Uzic, or towards the Shadow. I thought at some point that I wouldn't see that highway. Thank God, I'm already on that highway. From August 15th, I will go all the way to Belgrade, and not only to Ljig and it speaks of this government, it speaks of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, it speaks of the SNS. Don't listen to everything else, work and create, create. What matters to me very much is exactly this Moravia corridor. The Moravia Corridor not only because of the name Morava, because on Friday another Morava will open, and it will be Morava airport in Brodjevci near Kraljev, at the border with Katra, I cannot sin my soul that is also part of the territory of the town of Cačka. In the bill of law, well-arranged, quality law, it says exactly what we have repeatedly observed here today, why is it late? No one's ever given any kind of a deadline to get the works started. Here it writes nicely from Pojat to Košev, the project has been done, everything has been done and from Adran to Mrčaevci, i.e. to Preljina, will be completed by the end of July. What's the problem? The problem is in the biggest part that passes through the territory of the city of the Kings. The problem of the West Morava River, the problem of all those suburban settlements which were flooded in 2014 and the problem not only of the territory of the city of Kraljev, but also of the municipality of Trstenik. Because if, and it was, you know well, because you participated in all these conversations and stories, there was a solution to how to solve the root of the river Morava, so by correcting, so I don't know what. Then it would happen that the territory of the city of Kings that had not been flooded, which is somewhere worse than the Adran, would have been flooded or the territory of the Tristenik municipality would hardly have been affected if such a thing had been done. I think that's exactly why, because of the regulation of the river Morava trough, it's been working so long to find a good, real solution. You know we've made trouble in the worst part, but it's only part of the solution. There was a mention that the highway route would take the left side between the railway and the river, that it would go to the right, I think now is the best solution and that we would finally have a roundabout where we talked about that lighting, which has not yet been done, on our way out to Kragujevac, even though I know that the public procurement was done and it's all over. This again says that public procurement is sometimes not as good as some think it is. I wouldn't be long here anymore, because there are a lot of colleagues who would say a nice word about this quality and good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56084	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56085	Mr Arsic, Mrs Mihajlovic, I would like to ask professional or technical service and you, Mr Arsic, to allow me to use the map that Mrs Mihajlović brought in, because I am talking about concrete moves, because what this map would mean as a decoration here, citizens should know that the map is there. I studied it today. I've looked several times at the entire section of the highway we're talking about, but in order to have a competent discussion with Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, I'd have to explain something. So don't take this time away from me and let me have this map. No, it's not possible, Mrs. Mihajlovic, because it doesn't help here either. So, specifically so that citizens can see, as you and your president do in television shows, that we can show what this is about, because I'm also going to talk to the citizens of those places. (President: What do you mean, co-worker Jovanovic, citizens hear. What were you thinking when you brought this map to the O.R.? Did you come to look at her because they know what that means? What is this here, a decor or something? If it's to be able to talk, I'll take advantage of it. If not, then I guess you have it all in your head and you look at it, and I'm going to specifically ask. (President: I don't have a microphone next to the map. ) I will begin with that basic ignorance of things and there is confusion among the MPs who may not, and even from the authorities, wanted to study it, here you are blindly trusted by Mrs. Mihajlović and other advocates of giving this job directly by the company Bechtel. What company is this? So this particular Warren Bechtel company was founded in America 121 years ago. The fourth generation of his descendants is run by that company and it has nothing to do with the official policy of America how you tried to explain it today to my colleague, who, of course, laughed at it, and who is in power in America. This is a private corporation that gets very lucrative jobs around the world. So that she would not repeat what her colleagues were saying, there were such jobs ended, and some who were trying, such as the job in Romania, from Bucharest to Hungary's border, which was stopped after some time because the Romanians understood Bechtel constantly collects the price of kilometers. I can say freely, that's why I asked to show you, specifically, the citizens of Serbia and the people's MPs this map, that the section from Preljina to Kraljev, as regards the valley of West Morava, I know perfectly well, every village, every time, the local road and countless times I'm from both sides of the river Morava, because my father from the village of Katrg and all Jovanovic live there today in that village, I grew up in some way there, although I was born a Kragujevčan woman and I know how much this project was in his initial only becoming or idea, caused a reaction to the citizens. Of course everyone will be happy to get the highway, especially because it is normal for the highway to increase the price of agricultural land, giving people a better chance of living there, etc. But then it should be explained to those locals of all the villages, and still to the Kruševec, why Bechtel? There's no reasonable explanation, except that it's the pure lobby of an American ambassador...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56086	You're bringing the end of my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56087	Why bring the end, so I have nine minutes at my disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56088	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56089	Please don't, I have nine and a half minutes at my disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56090	You don't have nine minutes, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56091	You can say whatever you want, nine and a half minutes or steal time. You, as you are already called, you Djokic, who is a relic of that time where you could command time and so on... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56092	Radeta colleagues, the SRS parliamentary group totals 28 minutes and 49 seconds. I interrupted my colleague Jovanovic when she used 31 minutes and 26 seconds. How, come on add it up. I'm not adding that up. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not adding up. No, I don't. [[You're just that time that was in the replicas...]] The Faith of Radeta: What is it? I haven't taken any time at all. What was in the replicas overrun was reset and returned to your MP's group. Comrade Radeta, I beg you, you will receive a report on who spoke as safely as possible. (Verica Radeta: Look individually, how many colleagues Mircic spoke, how many Miljan... No, you're asking me now to check how much anyone spoke. I'll check it out. If it turns out I'm wrong, I'll reset my time to my colleague Jovanovic and she'll have plenty of time regardless of these two, three minutes she spent. (The Faith of Radeta: What day, on which topic? Not a few days, today as far as I know it, and I guess I'm not mistaken, there are 20 other MPs who need to participate in the discussion. For one or two discussions, we will know the exact result of who spoke from the SRS parliamentary group. If it's a service mistake, I'll apologize, I'll give my word to my colleague Jovanovic. If it isn't, you'll be notified. You have no right anymore, colleague Jovanovic, until we determine... Let's move on. No problem. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jovanovic, I beg you, I can't... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) So, I've had it all, but the MP who discussed it, immediately after his discussion, is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Not after, but in the middle of a discussion that you interrupted. Of course he's right. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56093	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 27 and Article 32. So, the elemental some courtesy tells me that at this point, because of the correctness of everything, always the deputy secretary general, and I choose the words that I will address. So if you didn't have that option, and I think you did, how many years you were in the SRS, and after that, when you left her for the kidnapping of the mandate, you could learn one thing that we never made a mistake for a second and for nothing. counterpart Milorad Mircic and counterpart Miljan Damjanovic used their time within the parliamentary group and used less than 19 minutes. The remaining time the SRS is exactly what I was counting on in my address. Mr. Arsic, I don't know what it is, first of all, you think at that moment you're being watched by this factory of yours, you're acting like a democracy, and you know what the SRS is, that we're not to limit time, so now you're sort of burying yourself, or I don't know what to say. Just an hour and a half ago you allowed the replicas, and we told you: “It’s okay, it’s okay, let’s have a discussion and discussion,” for 10 or 12 minutes. I'm starting to talk about the agenda point, with the intention that through the specific villages and the problems people will eventually face before the start of the highway building I'm talking about, and you say, "you've wasted your time" without consulting the professional service, but you say, "Hey, wait, I'll do it. Will you, Mr. Arsic, ever run a session in half an hour, who knows? What do I have to wait for? On the spot... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56094	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: What is next that you should ask me? I haven't given an answer yet. So, co-worker Jovanovic, that time that was for replicas, and I can bring any replica from an electronic form, so colleague Miljan Damjanovic spent 20 minutes on replicas, that's half the time that belongs to the parliamentary group. If I was tolerable in 16 minutes, do you really think I'd take you a minute or two? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Four and a half Or four and a half, or five, if I had no problem allowing you to speak through business law for 16 minutes, not you, some colleague of yours and my colleague, in the end, do you really think that I would allow myself to argue about two or three or four minutes afterwards? I didn't count for seconds. I didn't count on a single MP for seconds. I don't like to count for seconds, I let MPs participate in the discussion, but there is a time when I simply can't tolerate it anymore. Come individually, please, as long as everyone has time. Individually, tell us. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56095	Yes, I do. I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Indeed, this is now turning into a joke. You have to tell us what you've been doing. How you've been collecting seconds and minutes in your head, I don't know. I want Mr Branko, as a responsible person, and you say, please, we are serious people, how much time in the principle debate of 28 minutes of default, how many SRS, used fellow Mircic, and how many colleagues Damjanovic, who were speakers before me on the list. Get me those two times through the electronic system individually, of course, their speeches within a roll call per list. I want to use the rest of the time, because that's the right that the SRS has.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56096	You will receive a report of the time spent by the SRS. It's a time that belongs to your MP group, not to you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? Yes, you do. All right. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56097	Thank you, colleague Arsic. You're very tolerant of the presidency today. Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have no intention of opening up special polemics in my presentation, especially if they contain some personal motives, because it is more than obvious that whenever Zorana Mihajlovic comes to the National Assembly, some MPs literally collapse on her, but because of personal impatience. However, even in itself it is not what is particularly problematic, because we from the SNS have long been used to personal insults. What are you talking about? Go back to the subject. ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanović: The theme! )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56098	Please enable colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56099	But on the other hand, it tells us that we have heard almost no objection or at least no fundamental remark about the bill itself. But again, Mr Arsic, I appreciate these MPs a lot more, although I disagree with them, I appreciate these MPs much more than this other part of the opposition that has not appeared in parliament for months and has been sending a message to the citizens that they are absolutely not interested in any point of importance to the citizens of Serbia. They don't hide it, they say it publicly, and for me it's a prime example of irresponsibility and hypocrisy. Why hypocrisy? Because they come to the Assembly from time to time, but only here in this lobby, just here in front, hold a press conference, get all kinds of nonsense, insult the MPs of the ruling coalition and Alexander Vukic and the government of Serbia, and then bravely flee from the moon. They can't come here to the O.R. to face our views here in Parliament where it's a place to be. There was this hero yesterday, he must have been the bravest of them, Zoran Zivkovic appeared in the hall, called us criminals, thieves, sloths, etc. And then, of course, he ran away from the congregation faster or better, ran home, ran off to drink wine or anywhere else. (The Belief of Radeta: There were just people who forgot him, and now you're advertising him.) But the important thing is that it was on that foreign television N1 news yesterday. To them, the main news was what he said yesterday in the hall of Zoran Zivkovic. Who cares what Zoran Zivkovic says in this country? And the faithful woman of Radeth said unto no man: therefore don't mention him. That's what I'm telling you. ) Interested in N1. Although he has fewer voters even than that unfortunate Janko Veselinovic, if possible. But what's the problem, the problem is that on N1 we won't hear information about what's the main topic today, which is building highways. On N1 we won't hear anything about the Moravia Corridor. As significant as this is for, as we heard, 500,000 people living in that part of central Serbia, for N1 it doesn't matter, on N1 it won't be news. We won't even hear that in just a few years, more than 200 kilometers of highways have been completed. On the N1 we won't even hear that the 200km of railroad was restored, that's not news to them. On N1 we won't hear any of the following data, one of our colleagues complained that this was broken, and it's broken, but I'm a couple of years younger, so I can see it. You're an asshole! I won't mind these insults. Don't say a warning, I won't pay attention to this. Do you hear what he said? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56100	My colleague Radeta, you said he was a jerk. And what did he say before that? Nothing to you. What did he say to the microphone in public? What did he say? Say again what he said. Let him repeat what he said. What did he say? Keep going, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56101	Arsic, I said I was a couple of years younger than my colleague, nothing more. - Yes, she is. He sees because he's younger. Shame on you. He doesn't know how to behave, he doesn't have a basic culture. ) So on N1 we won't hear about the shares built, or those shares built until 2014, or those shares that were built in the period from 2014 to 2018. So it's the Corridor 10 South Leg - Grabovnica, Grdelica, Vranje, Donji Neradovac, 58 kilometers long. Then the Serbian House – Levosoje, the border of Macedonia, is 29.5km long. We won't hear about Corridor 10 East Leg, Average - Bancarevo, 13 kilometers long. Then, Red River, border with Bulgaria 67.8 kilometers. Corridor 10 North Leg, Novi Sad – Horgos 108 kilometers, bypass around Belgrade, Batajnica – Dobanovci - Osrežnica 26.9 kilometers. Corridor 11, Obrenovac – Ub 26.2 kilometers. We won't even hear about the Lykovac section - 64 kilometers. We won't hear that it was built in the period, so from 2014 to 2018 445.9 kilometers. That's not all news to them. When it comes to shares whose construction is in the course of Corridor 10, Bancarevo – Red River, 6 kilometers, the loop of Subotica – Kelebija 12.1 km. When it comes to Corridor 11, Surčin – Obrenovac 17.6 kilometers, Ub – Lykovac 12.5 kilometers, Preljina – Požega 30 kilometers, Batocina loop 5 kilometers, Ostružnica – Bubanj Potok 19.5 kilometers. We're not gonna hear all this on N1. And it is not that important, it is important that Serbian citizens hear these results and it is very important that Serbian citizens understand and know who is responsible for these results. How much was built in the period when the yellows led Serbia and how much is being built today. Serbian citizens understand very well, see very well and know very well and know who is responsible for it and will know that the prizes in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56102	The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56103	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Moravski Corridor is the number one project for the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, but it is also a project of vital importance for about half a million people living on this move. For all residents of Pojat, Cicevic, Stalaća, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vranjačka Banja, Kraljeva and Cačka this is an extremely important corridor because it will connect corridors 10 and 11 and make us more accessible to investors, which is very important at this time. For all the residents who live on this move, this is a crucial moment because this is our chance to connect and develop because this is how important traffic connects. This corridor will be a length of 110 kilometers and what is very important predicts the equipment and arrangement of two industrial zones, which is very important for those of us living on this move because it will make us more competitive and attractive for potential domestic and foreign investors. One industrial zone is planned between Barvarin and Cicevic, the other is planned between Trstenik and Vrnjaka Banja and that is what investors expect when they identify which municipality they will choose to invest in infrastructure, they expect organised industrial zones. In addition to what the Republic of Serbia has done in implementing reforms to achieve political stability and financial consolidation, these are very important projects that we need to realise if we want to modernise to revive and start our economy. It's a very important goal that we want to achieve, and for that we're going to fight to start and revive the potentials that we already have, our storage facilities, our industrial capacities. We lost too much time because our predecessors had no knowledge, no courage to provide these conditions for their citizens. In particular, in Triestenik, we've had this problem for almost a decade, the problem with the industrial zone, and just as the SNS arrived, this industrial zone was arranged. So, the obstacle was one bad contract that was full of inadequacy, inapplicable and the arrival of SNS in 2016, when we took responsibility for the management of the municipality we together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia solved this problem. The Department of Business has defined 40 million dinars to edit this industrial zone and we can today boast that we have conditions for a greenfield investment with connections. What is also very important for the citizens of Tristenik municipality, President Aleksandar Vukic opened a car parts factory last December. It employs 300 workers today, from the planned thousand. This is only, therefore, the first step and the launch of our economy for which we want to revive and develop and expect that when these industrial zones are arranged and prepared, we have a much greater chance of being more attractive and attractive to investors and that we can be competitive to take part in the race with other municipalities. At this point, there is political will, there is a solution, there is means and there is a willingness to implement this project until the end. Unfortunately, many have been building their political campaigns on this subject, holding on to this project, taking on it, but the fact that they have done nothing concrete, because if they had, today, we would have had much better results both in Triestenik and in all other municipalities. The fact is, they haven't done an expropriation one metre times on this move and so much just this testifys to their seriousness and willingness, but also to the expertise that they're working on this project. It is not the only project they have failed on, the Minister is familiar with the project of building a hanging bridge in Tristenik after the floods that hit us. We, I repeat, in 2016 when we took responsibility in Triestenik literally had to go from zero because no single document existed, no paper from which to begin. So, from providing a local permit, building a project, we've done it all together with the Department of Construction with huge support and exceptional co-operation. So starting from scratch, we literally took over all the burden and managed to realize this very important project for all the people of our community. This is how it is done when it is seriously accessible to projects, dedicated and committed, and it is exactly the law that we are discussing today, regarding the determination of public interest when it comes to the construction of the Moravia Corridor, another proof that we are committed and committed to this topic, because we want to be quick and efficient and we want to not waste time but rather to implement this project as soon as possible. We want to be ready to enter into its realization, to prepare all preconditions, project documentation, expropriation, for this project to be implemented as soon as possible. The construction of the Moravski Corridor opens up the possibility for agriculture to connect with other activities, to open new markets in neighbouring countries and to increase external trade, given the already existing demand for agricultural food products, for the products of the dedicated industry. What's important is to provide conditions for better placement of these products. The aim is certainly also to establish a long-term strategy when it comes to development in line with local and regional capacities and potentials and to encourage further development of the settlements on this track. The improvement of the transport system will certainly reduce costs, lead to savings in time and we expect it to lead to a major development of the economy. Another aspect of the construction of this corridor is the fact that after the flood in 2014 the regulations governing infrastructure have changed significantly. So now the regulations are stricter and this is very important because compared to the construction of the Moravia Corridor, it will work to determine the coast, it will work on the regulation of the water streams, on the regulation of the riverbed, not only of the West Morava but also of all the tributaries that actually caused us the greatest damage in 2014 and led to catastrophic consequences. Therefore, the new Water Act prescribes more rigorous conditions than those that were valid when the first assessment was made and it is clear why the price is higher for this reason, it is security and the population and infrastructure that will monitor the construction of this project. In addition, the construction of a modern telecommunications network is planned. So one comprehensive and comprehensive approach where three large projects are actually implemented in this project. Of course, some opposition MPs who today did not find fit to appear in this room and discuss this topic are criticising those who actually rolled up their sleeves and set out to implement projects that they were not able to finish. So they order from a distance, they send some of their criticisms, but what I have to tell them is that this is where they're talking, this is where the citizens have directed them to represent their interest. What citizens should know, that they do not come to work but have no problem with receiving wages from the National Assembly, so extremely hypocritical and inadmissible. There were no frames or such conferences, which were so pompously announced to be held in some continuity, no parallel parliament exists, the time of flight is likely, the wolf of an attractive destination, but what is important is that they continue to follow Dragan Gilas, who spent 400m euros for one bridge, therefore, for only one bridge, and the Moravski Corridor, which carries with it 10km of highway, the arrangement of West Morava, all the tributaries, the editing of industrial zones and telecommunications networks, probably too expensive when compared. I stress once again that this is a strategically important connection because the highway that passes through these municipalities is burdened, passes through populated places, passes by schools, passes through the crossings and building this highway will save time and transport costs, but it will also increase traffic safety. What I would also like to point out is the good co-operation of our local self-government with the Ministry of Construction and I say so in light of a meeting recently held in the municipality of Trstenik, which brought together all representatives of local self-government at this meeting. So the central theme was the construction of the Moravian Corridor, but it was also discussed key projects in our cities and municipalities, so the projects we implement together for the Ministry are multimillionaires, which are very important and concern regional roads, but reconstruction of the construction of a sewer network, an extremely important programme that is intended for our citizens to improve the quality of life. On this occasion, I would mention and refer to what my colleague Bojanic said in his presentation, so on June 28th, the opening of Morava airport in Kralje was announced, which is also very important, given the proximity of the Moravian Corridor and the availability of the traffic station. This is a military-civil airport that has potential and is expanding and leading in this part of Europe, when it comes to cargo traffic and for our municipalities on the route of the Moravia Corridor, it is also very important that there will be domestic companies involved in this business, which will have the opportunity to work and we expect that and we hope that construction firms will be simply able to respond to all the requirements and all the challenges these major projects bear, but it is very important that domestic companies will be engaged domestic materials. So, a very demanding project, which consists of actually three continents, which will carry 76 bridges, which means building a 110km highway, which means building a modern telecommunications network, but what is a very, very significant arrangement of the West Morava trough and all tributaries to ensure safety for all residents, but also for infrastructure. This law guarantees speed and efficiency and prepares all preconditions and a step towards better integration and development. For that reason, I will vote in the day of voting, with pleasure to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56104	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56105	I just want to inform that if MPs adopt this bill, the Ministry will visit every municipality and every city, on the Pojate-Preljina section in the next month, to talk to citizens, present the project, present not only the route, but everything that the citizens expect in building such an important infrastructure project. There, of course, we will expect assistance from the district chief, so the president of municipalities, mayors, because we think it is very important, that this is really the first highway that connects Serbia with Serbia, so in the centre of Serbia, it connects the corridors. One small remark, you also mentioned, therefore MPs, is not only the fact that MPs, opposition MPs are not present here, they make a lot of statements on the subject of the Moravia Corridor, and that they practically improvise everything they say and that everything they say is not only true, but represents only an attack on one project, and not just an attack on that project of the Moravia Corridor, but a simple attack on every project, on every investment that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, and that is important for all citizens, regardless of whether they are members of one, another or any other political option, but I really hope that we and this project and this corridor will do the fastest possible, start its realization, as at the end of what we have completed some previous ones, so we see ourselves soon on that path of the Pojate-Preljina corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56106	The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56107	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, it is said that roads connect areas and people. This certainly confirms the future Moravski Corridor, as a direct link between Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, but as an internal link between the western and southwest with the south and south-west parts of the Republic of Serbia, continues to be with Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey. Hence, the future Moravski Corridor, i.e. the section of the Pojate-Preljina road, has great strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of this internal integration, but also for the countries of the region. It is necessary to repeat that the future highway will connect all major settlements via Ćićevac, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjakbanja, Kraljev and Cačka. The importance of this corridor is greater because about half a million people live in this area and operate over 21,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. Given that there are six mountains in this part of the Republic of Serbia, 20 monasteries and 10 popular destinations of Banjska tourism, it is obvious what importance the future highway will have for the development of tourism in this part of the country, but also for attracting future potential investors. In addition to the construction of a modern traffic station, such as the Moravski Corridor, it is important to point out that the subject of this project and the regulatory works on the Morava River and the surrounding waters, whose completion will permanently eliminate the risk of floods in this area. All of the above is very important for improving the quality of life of the local population, but also for the industrial, business, tourism development of Central Serbia. Since I come from Užica, the largest city of Zlatibor County, I will refer to the importance of building Corridor 11, i.e. The highway from Obrenovac to Preljina, whose complete end in the total length of 103km announced by the end of the year, all of us residents of this part of the Republic of Serbia are eager to expect. Practically, he will connect Belgrade and Cacak. By releasing the section of the highway on Corridor 11 from Liga to Preljina, in October 2016 in the length of 40 kilometers, it partly facilitated the journey on a very difficult and burdened and risky Ibar Masteral. On the very mention of the Ibar highway, heavy words, great crowds, risk and a reduction of safety for traffic users, to severe frequent traffic accidents often and to fatal outcomes. With this, the construction of this highway, I personally believe, is the most important infrastructure investment for the population of this part of the country, which is realised with great commitment and effort from the competent ministry with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic. From personal experience, and so do my countrymen who often travel from these parts to the capital, that a trip of four hours in one direction to the Ibar highway, and even returning the same route in the same day, is very difficult. It's about the problems of operating passenger and freight traffic, not to mention. The construction of the highway from Pojata to Preljina and the start of works on the Preljina-Požega section is also a momentum for the development of this region, the opening of new jobs and the arrival of potential investors, which of course represents the economic prosperity of this region. We hope in the near future and continuing to build the arms of the highway across Užic and Kotoman, according to Sarajevo, which would make Zlatibor County and Western Serbia equal to other areas where highways were built in terms of a better quality life of the population, easier business of businessmen, of course due to the reduction of transport costs and the creation of favourable conditions for the arrival of new investors in these parts. By building a highway in Corridor 11 and connecting the Moravski Corridor with Corridor 10 and the region, the tourist offer of Zlatibor County and Western Serbia with its already known destinations offered by Zlatibor-Tara-Zlatar -Mokra Gora would be even more attractive and more acceptable for both domestic and foreign tourists. Also, increasingly well-known and more attractive health tourism in these areas, it would have had a more up-to-date travel infrastructure to be built by users in the future. Positive effects, of course, construction of highways on corridors 10, 11 and Moravsky are numerous. That is why we MPs of the Serbian People's Party in voting day will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56108	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56109	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, stands before us today to draft a law on the establishment of public interest for the construction of the Moravski Corridor, i.e. for the construction of the work of the Pojate-Preljina highway. This bill and how significant it is, since this bill addresses the previous issue, the determination of expropriation, and by emergency procedure, determines the competent authorities that are to be dealt with in this procedure, also within the short term. Of course, citizens who are users of the immovable property over which the expropriation will be carried out will in no way be damaged, for the reason that the real estate price cannot be less than the established market price of immovable property in that area, i.e. in the area of local self-government where the immovableity is located. Also, this bill allows the project to be implemented as quickly and efficiently as possible, starting with the realization of this project of the Pojate-Preljina highway, which is vital and vital to the citizens of central Serbia, which almost no one in the last 70 years, when it comes to road infrastructure, any road traffic and rail traffic and air traffic, has taken care of this government, to our President Aleksandr Vukic and, of course, your ministry, Mrs Mihajlovic. We have already heard that the length of this corridor is 110km, that it will pass through cities, that it will contribute to the improvement of life in cities: Čačak, Kraljevo, Trstenik, Cicevic, Varvarin, Kruševac, that the construction of this highway will contribute to increased economic growth, that the construction industry will, of course, withdraw and produce, or include domestic construction operators, that, of course, will increase the consumption of domestic building material, and all of this will certainly affect GDP growth. The roads for Serbian citizens mean life, a better life for citizens. In the focus of Alexander Vukic's and SNS's policies, the better life of every Serbian citizen, whether he lives in Belgrade, whether he lives in northern Serbia, in the south, in the west, in the southwestern part of our country. Therefore, the construction of this corridor will lead to the integration of citizens from central Serbia with citizens from western Serbia, with citizens from southern Serbia, with citizens from the north and, of course, with the southeast part of Serbia. Building Corridor 10 is of immeasurable importance also to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today from Horgos to the border with Northern Macedonia will arrive in about five hours. When it comes to Corridor 11, it's done a lot. The Ljig-Pray stock is released and every citizen sees it, it's a 40km share. Of course it's started with work and a share that goes from Preljina to Požega, it's 30.9km long, but believe me, when we travel south-west Serbia, when we take the Ljig-Plin route we feel like we're on a plane, not in a car. And how much you've done to make Belgrade a transport centre for both road and rail and water and air traffic. I must say that the company Er Serbia was awarded the highest score with seven stars in 2018 on the basis of the security of its services. Also, I must point out that you have completed a reconstruction of 77km on railway corridor 11, that's Resnik-Valjevo, the trains are now going at a speed of 120km, and by 2012 they were going at a speed of 20-50km. Also, as far as I'm aware, the project technical documentation for further reconstruction of the Valjevo railway to the state border and, of course, this arm that is built on the highway of Corridor 11 from Požega will go in two directions, one direction will go to Užic, i.e. Kotoman, and will continue to connect with the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other leg will go across Ivanjica, the Cave High and will connect with the state border, i.e. Montenegro. All that you've done so far is in the interest of a better life for Serbian citizens and we from the SNS stand for it, we have no dilemma and we will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56110	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56111	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is indeed a pleasure to talk today about the bill governing the establishment of public interest in the construction of the highway E-761, another one in a series after a 300km highway was built in the previous period. The construction of the Moravian Corridor is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, both for internal integration and greater mobility, thus recognising multiple regional importance. The strategic importance of the project is seen in increasing the availability of municipal centres, also in business areas and in tourist destinations. In the freeway zone, which we're talking about today, we already have an industrial zone, another minimum of two are planned to be built. Also, in this 110km-long move, we have half a million citizens living there and we have 20,000 companies and these are all criteria that absolutely justify such a significant project and that are a perspective for the even better and faster development of that part of Serbia. Good road, good traffic connection, we are witnessing essentials are for attracting both domestic and foreign investments. I come from Ub municipality, and I want to pass on the experience that really special weight and special importance for such a small local self-government as Ub has an exit to the highway. Here, we look forward to the end of the section of the E-763 highway and already feels this one good atmosphere where we have a factory in Obrenovac, we have a factory in the Ubu industrial zone, where our citizens work, and these factories will expand their capacities and there will be more jobs. Serious investors from the world and those whose attention you can attract have little and then it's up to us, and the SNS recognizes it well, to create an environment for them to come to Serbia. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia are witnesses that responsible politics, combatability, industriousness and knowledge produce results. That's why after a few decades, we can make it from Horgos to Presevo in five hours, and in the past 70 years, we've only had promises that it will be so soon. Then, by the end of the year, we will have the highway from Surcin to Cačka, and in two and a half years it will be connected to the citizens of Serbia, so it will be connected to Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. Not long ago, we have a decade behind us where the same opportunity was given to the previous regime, where the same amount of money was allocated in the budget for the construction of the traffic, but miles of highways have been transferred only, unfortunately, to the figures in the personal bank accounts of the natural persons. There is no such practice in the current government, and there is no such practice in the work of President Aleksandr Vukic as well as of the responsible leadership that implements the SNS programme. I would also like to stress that today's bill of law is also envisaged, so that sterilization of such a significant project would avoid bad practice, by adopting the law on the agenda, we are taking one of the first steps in implementing activities, and from this, we can freely say mega-project. It's definitely pre-planning operations related to expropriation, business and technical documentation, complete accompanying infrastructure, and so on. So a systemically responsible approach to each task, household treatment for the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and a fair indication of trust in the current government and the president of the Republic of Serbia, will give such projects a surprise. Citizens know and are already witnesses of what policy is today current, such a policy is supported, such a policy has no alternative and they know that this is the way for decent and modern Serbia. Certainly in the voting day, I, as well as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56112	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56113	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is my great pleasure and honor to be able to contribute to the work of today's proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the implementation of the infrastructure corridor building project, the E-761 highway of Pojate-Preljina, whose adoption is necessary in order to join the work on the construction of the Moravski Corridor. At the beginning of his presentation, he stressed the existence of strategic importance for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, which is viewed through regional importance, but also through integration as well as greater mobility within the Republic of Serbia. Also, under the construction of the Moravski Corridor, parallel construction of industrial zones along the Pojate-Preljina highway is planned. The construction of the Moravian Corridor is of strategic importance, as it primarily connects central Serbia, connects Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, which is very important because of bringing new investments. When we consider the section of Corridor 11, as well as the southern leg of Corridor 10 through the 20-mile-long Gredile ravine, I can freely say that it's one of the most difficult parts of the highway you've been tasked with building. This is the share that our predecessors have well skipped, unlike them, we have shown that we are solving the most difficult problems and therefore you should be congratulated above all by a respected minister, your associates, your entire government, and most of the workers who have contributed to the construction of this highway. The construction of the Moravski Corridor represents one extension of these starting works and it is a 110km highway that is the highway of the most modern telecommunications network. The importance of the Moravian Corridor is reflected, as I said earlier, in the connection of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, because half a million residents live here, and more than 21,000 businesses also operate. What I would like to stress and make important is that local self-governments along the Moravia Corridor route will certainly be in a much more favourable position, as they will be able to offer infrastructure to investors and will be able to attract investors. I come from a local self-government that will certainly be in a more favourable position, the Varvarin municipality. There's a plan to build three industrial zones. One industrial zone on the move between Čačka and Kraljev, the other between the Kings and Triestenik and the third between Trstenik, Cicevic and Varvarin. This law will allow us to be faster and more efficient in realising the construction of such an important highway, because the construction of the Moravia Corridor is a specific project which, apart from the construction of the highway, represents the construction of the most modern telecommunications network, as well as the protection of Morava and all its tributaries. The seriousness of the policy of the President of the Republic of Mr. Alexander Vukic is reflected in kilometers of newly built highways. In recent years, some 300km of newly built highways, unlike the predecessors who were very willing to put money in their pockets and did not consider building new infrastructures, new highways, hospitals and schools. This highway will cost the Moravski Corridor 800m euros. The strategic importance of the project is also reflected in increasing availability and municipal centres and economic areas, as well as tourist destinations. Since part of the Moravia Corridor is built on an existing highway route, and partly removed from the state road of the first row. It will connect all the settlements Ćićevac, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kralje and Cačak, which will certainly have great importance for these places and for the economy, and for tourism, as well as for raising the quality of life of the local population. I'm undermining that there's a large population of 500,000 people living here, operating over 21,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, and 10 businesses and one free zone have been formed. In this part of the Republic of Serbia there are over 20 monasteries, about six mountains and over 10 popular destinations of Banjska tourism. The construction of a telecommunications highway creates conditions for providing the best quality telecommunications services, both on the highway route itself, and in the mentioned places that gravity towards the corridor, which will certainly lead to the improvement of the quality of life of citizens of these local self-governments. The improvement in quality of life will also be seen in reducing, or time savings, increasing traffic safety, improving accessibility, but also reducing transport costs. Because of everything counted in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56114	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56115	I thank the chairman. I'm going to say, just for a little while, since there were words here about technical matters, and I think there's something vague left, because of the construction, traffic and geodetic professions, and I have to say that the long and cross-cutting falls, it's still unclear. Please, I think we're dealing with something that we just shouldn't be dealing with in this assembly, it's a matter of technique and profession, and then something like that is done here to go public and remain unknown to many people out there who simply don't need to know something, that something's wrong. Please, there are two crashes on the road - long and detachable. The waist, depending on the geometry of the road, determines what will primarily be the cross-sectional fall. Based on this cross-country fall, it is determined that the water will be driven, whether it will be an open channel, whether it will be a closed channel, whether it will be a rainwater, whether it will be something else, as well as an extension profile, and of course it must all go within the safety of traffic. That combination must exist. Furthermore, we can't, I say, deal in this assembly with these tiny technical details and we don't have to deal with it. What I'm not going to talk about for a long time, about the importance, I think that many have talked about today, about the importance of the Moravia Corridor, but it's just enough to mention three things and there's no need to explain them, that's the connection between central Serbia, just that, let's say. What's next? What do you explain to me now? Furthermore, the economy of tourism, here tourism has somehow remained on the sidelines. That part of Serbia is very rich in tourist offers. That should be pointed out here because this highway is going to be obtained and on the significance and visits of that area. Next, what we're talking about is the highway, it's carrying, but what goes next to it is these regulations of Morava and other waterways, as well as the telecommunications part, I think that's the latest advance of technique when these three things are done in parallel. I don't want to talk about it anymore. Further, expropriation. Explosion is something to secure the procedure. The procedure is secure. Why has the law been passed? To speed it up. If I'm already able to do that, let's speed up and secure, the essence of expropriation is to ensure that the parties are protected by their rights. If we've provided that, which we have, then I think it's all right and any objection to the adoption of a law like this, as a special law, I don't think it stands. So there are deadlines, secure protection of the owner's rights to real estate and compensation. It's all protected and I think it's okay. Something they got at quality, at the quality of the debate, it's this offer and I came and when I saw it, I was pleasantly surprised, because this and for anyone who doesn't know this topic, it's simply enough to see this map and to make it quite clear to him what we're discussing, as well as one connection between this Serbia, especially these good roads. In the context of all of this, I think that this is a little neglected, in terms of everyone being a little bit ahead, but the profession, I want, whenever I talk, I want to say about the importance of the Republic Geodetic Institute and that geodetic profession that gives for something like this. Trust me. The Republic Geodetic Institute, or Catastrian, are not sufficiently visible, but, without the Republic Geodetic Institute, there is no work without geodesy, especially in infrastructure facilities. Simply, the beginning, the middle, the end, everywhere there is the Republic Geodetic Institute present, present in a way that has to work quality and fast. If this is the case, if it works well, if the Republic Geodetic Institute is taking a big step ahead, if it is progressing, if it is technically progressing, if it is progressing professionally, it must also be recognised in the Government. Well, if that's the case, maybe even when there are claims for compensation, wages, etc., all of this should be taken into account and if we have a professional body and a body that does a good job, then all of this should be considered, even when it comes to compensation and wages. What I'm trying to say is, what's not directly related to the Moravia Corridor, which is, for example, my municipality, the Koceljeva municipality, simply by building the highway Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, by building the Likovac-Iverak highway, i.e. Lajkovac-Valjeva, Koceljeva will be located from three highways of 35 km approximately. What's wrong with that? There is no reconstruction of the national road number 141, that is the state path of the second "A" row, about 25 km away, to tie Koceljeva to the highway, or Uba. So there's no reconstruction of the state path of the second "A" order. I'm also asking the Minister in charge of all of this, we're free of highways if we're not connected to the lower-order roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56116	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56117	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I want to start by supporting this law, because I think that what maybe irritates people the most is a situation where sometimes cruel procedures know they're slowing down some very important projects and if this law is going to make building the Moravia Corridor more efficient and faster, then I don't think we have a dilemma about whether this law should be supported. Especially when we see and who opposes such a law, which is usually some politicians who have not yet built the Moravia Corridor, but have not finished the Corridor 10, have not completed a single corridor in 12 years, and approximately that the Moravia Corridor was not even in their minds. Of course, these projects are key to the development of the economy, and I can also explain on the case of the town of Cačka, where the first large factory will be opened in two months after several decades, the Forvard company, which will employ over a thousand citizens over the next few years and several smaller investments, i.e. factories that will employ several hundred employees. None of them would have been ready to come, had they not had firm convictions that Corridor 11, primarily from Cack to Belgrade, and then other shares, would have been quickly completed. Absolutely, if there were no clear indications that these projects would be completed, no one would want to talk to us about any serious investment. I don't think I have to stress even when it comes to security how many tragic situations and accidents have been happening on the magistrate's roads and how much construction of modern highways will save lives and increase road safety. We're often told that we're taking loans and we're in debt to build highways. I don't think there's anything controversial about it, and I think that all over the world credits are being taken to create a new value. And thanks to these projects, we raise both the economy and our economy and our gross social product and we have more money in the budget to service these loans. We pay all credit rates neatly, and I don't think we're even late for a day with any kind of pay, and that's a lot of talking about our economy. What's important, unlike seven years ago, is we no longer take loans to pay wages and pensions and for something called daily liquidity. Perhaps even the biggest lie we could hear, not only today but also months ago, is that domestic construction operations are not employed in the realization of these projects. So, absolutely domestic construction operations are now the most busy than ever in the last few decades. Whoever you're talking to, you can see it. In one tender, ten different companies reported, now one or two, or even happens to not apply to some very serious reconstructions of schools and kindergartens, and whenever you talk to these people, they say that their biggest problem is to achieve what they have already agreed and find a sufficient number of workers. We will have over six million dinars of investment in the town of Cačka this year, when it comes to local roads, which is from our budget, which from the budget "The Road of Serbia" and I am really not sure that we will make it through the construction season all to realize, because all of our construction operations are literally employed seven days a week and the question is whether we will be able to achieve all this. I think anyone who moves in economic flows knows absolutely that I'm telling the truth. When a few months ago, the president of Serbia announced that on the summer of Vidovdan, the Morava airport would be opened, we could hear many ominous comments and tell us -- okay, it will be summer, but in the summer of what year? Or they told us -- a creature, but on a hip summer. So, as you can see, it won't be on a hip summer, it'll be in two days. On Friday, we will open the Morava airport, and the citizens of central Serbia will be able to fly to both Frankfurt and Moscow, as well as to Istanbul, as well as some other destinations in Western and central Europe, and during the summer season and some tourist destinations. All that is very important, although the airport will absolutely not be able to, or probably will not be able to be profitable, the state of Serbia has estimated that it is worth investing in, as the investment will create some comparative advantages for the economy and tourism of central Serbia. People need to know that none of this has fallen from the sky, but it is all the sole consequence of a very serious policy, a responsible policy that has provided enough money in the budget and the stability of public finances so that we can dare to open that airport and at the cost that it may be making losses. So, I want you to have this project to build the Moravia Corridor as soon as we're done and that in a couple of years we're at the loop at Cack's and that we can say that this is the intersection of all the roads and that any side of the world from Cack, you can take a modern highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56118	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56119	You're absolutely right about Chuck. Just like Nis is now a centre of practically three highways, so one is Corridor 10 South, Corridor 10 East, but also Nis-Pločnik, a new highway that works. And, after all, the airport, which of the thousands of passengers arrived today on more than 350,000 passengers. No one believed and they all criticized us, so here's the airport and how it works, so so does Cachak, related to this highway, related to Corridor 11, so both, and Pojate-Preljina, but also to Corridor 11. On the other hand, Morava Airport, or Kraljevo, which we open on Friday, which will be not only for passenger traffic but also for cargo traffic, I think is very important for this part of Serbia, and it means a lot because practically from Moravski Corridor from Morava Airport we are here, there will be exclusion and the possibility of using both Morava Airport and Moravski Corridor. I think it'll mean a lot to the economy itself. One minute you said it might not be profitable. Everything we do and what we plan to do about King Airport right now, we plan to build another runway, a new runway. I believe this year we're going to be doing projecting, seizing money, and then next year we're going to work. And how he can be profitable. Serbia needs an airport that is, above all, defined as a cargo airport, which is an ideal place. So it is Morava Airport that we believe that in the coming years and that it will also achieve what is called the profitability of the airport itself. It's fully equipped, it's got everything. It's an international airport. So, not just homework. It's an international airport according to all the certificates. Just like Nis, just like “Nikola Tesla. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56120	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56121	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with associates, you know, Madam Minister, that every proposal you propose here, which is significant for Serbia's development, will be supported and that SNS MPs will be very happy to support it. Thus, we will support this bill so that it will move towards the realisation of the road Pojate – Preljina, i.e. the section of the road marked E 761 The forest corridor, i.e. the Moravski corridor. We've already heard here that the Moravia Corridor is 110 kilometers long, that it consists of three parts. It goes from Pojat to Kruševac, the first part in the length of 26.5 kilometers, from Kruševac to Adran in the length of 53km and from Adran via Mrčajevac, i.e. to Preljina in the length of 30.6km. What's interesting about this Corridor? Serbia currently has two important roads sparring through Serbia, i.e. from the north to the south, i.e. from the northwest to the southeast. That's Corridor 11 and Corridor 10. Corridor 11 from the north is south of the Adriatic and Corridor 10 which is actually an important part of the trans-European transport network. The Moravia Corridor, the Shumadian Corridor, excuse me, which connects the east and west of Serbia is essentially very interesting because it connects the two corridors. It connects Corridor 11 and Corridor 10 and as much as it acts as a local type, at this point, it has a significant tendency to grow, to gain international importance. In that respect, the completion of the part of Čačak – Požega, Požega – Užice, there further towards Kotroman, will gain international importance, where Republika Srpska, or BiH, part of Corridor 11 and the Moravia Corridor will continue to be able to go east, i.e. Bulgaria and Turkey, or through E 75 to move further towards northern Macedonia, or south, towards the border of Greece. It has already been mentioned here that some 500,000 people live in the area, or half a million, and it is very important that the road network develops there because of the industrial, or economic prosperity of that part. In parallel with the construction of the road, it is mentioned that a modern telecommunications network will be created, but it is even more important that there will be a fortification of the coast, i.e. regulation of the river Morava and all other water streams nearby. From what I hear, you said it was going to be somewhere about 55 kilometers long, which is very significant. Just because we didn't have regular water streams earlier, there were floods in May 2014. We have drawn some experience from this, and we have passed certain regulations. New regulations and standards have been looking for a new route. The new route was looking for a spatial plan, and the spatial plan automatically pulled new project documentation. Thank you for these exhausting materials you delivered to us on these maps, as many people here couldn't tell or didn't want to see what it says. I wanted to tell you that I am convinced that under the leadership of Alexander Vukic your ministry and the entire government, whose backbone makes the SNS, all of these projects, all of these green lines that are on this map will soon become red, that these red ones will soon become blue, and that one day all of this will be blue and red as it is on this map. I have one request for you, which is that when the implementation of projects on the ground starts, you draw attention to all contractors to strengthen security at the site, because there is always danger, which has been seen so far, that when something of public importance, when something is of general importance, when it is good for the citizens of Serbia, there are always some people, such as Marko Bastac or Bosko Obradovic, who come to pick up some traffic signs or some characteristics of the construction site or to interfere with construction works. Maybe what I just said, maybe stealing traffic signs isn't a topic, maybe it's more about point 3 that we're going to talk about tomorrow, about communal problems, even though this other thing I said, maybe it's also about communal problems. When someone puts their pets in places like this without a break, it's definitely a communal problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56122	Thank you. Ljiljana Malušić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56123	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister of the Ministry, today we are talking about a proposal for a law establishing public interest and special procedures for the implementation of a project to build an infrastructure corridor, highway E 761, part of Pojate – Preljina. Before I start talking about the Moravia Corridor, I must really say that in Serbia it has never been built again but now. On all sides of the cranes, construction sites. In Serbia, I think there are over 10,000 in Belgrade over 1,000. So does the SNS, so does the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Mr Alexander Vukic. They can praise him, not praise him, they can love him, they don't like him, but that Mr. and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have really done something that no one has ever done in 50 years. Imagine, we've made 300 kilometers of highways in five years, 450 kilometers of roads, then the projection is that there's another 700 kilometers of roads, and it's currently in construction of 103 kilometers of roads. Not only that, airports are being built, five airports are going to have, railways are being built, high-speed rails are being built, we've done and revitalised 300 kilometers of rails, there's another 600 in the projection, there's a fast track where the speed is going to be 220 kilometers. Indeed all compliments on the work of your ministry, Government. Most importantly, it should be pointed out that the complete Moravski Corridor, i.e. the section of the highway from Preljina to Pojat, will cost 800m euros from Pojat to Preljina. Look out, just 800m euros with 76 bridges. Who knows what you're going to find there, and Giqiyev, or Mr. Gilasa's Bridge, cost 400m euros. Imagine, Ada, the bar, 400m euros cost his bridge. He could have made half the corridors with all 70 bridges. That's not how it works. That's why we have money in the budget to make fast tracks, highways. I'm fascinated. The move in central Serbia this time has, above all, an extremely important strategic, regional importance. That's the move that 500,000 people live in. There are 21,000 entrepreneurs. It has exceptional tourist potential. We have 20 monasteries, 10 baths, six mountains and, not only that, we're going to do three in one project. So, the highway, it's going to work, too, on the telecommunications highway, and we're going to do the Morava stream. There'll be no more floods. A project that was launched in 2010, which was not realised, of course, nor would ever be realised, as nothing in life has ever ended, will be complemented. A new project is under way, and a working group will be established for the project, and that is very good, it will work out more reputed companies, so the project will be complete. Why? Because there were huge floods in 2014 and that such a thing would never happen again must be done a new project. What else do you say? You said five more would be built. It's Corridor 10, done. This is Corrido 11, it'll be over. Three more highways are being made: the Moravski Corridor, another Nis - Merdare - Pristina, Požega – Užice – Kotroman will be working. Bravo! I think the Republic of Serbia will have the largest number of highways in Europe according to population and area. Thank you for your attention and just keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56124	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56125	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected MPs, is important for Serbia to get new traffic, highways and railways. It is clear what it means and what level of service it can provide accordingly. Serbia today attracts an increasing number of investments. Serbia is today a country of new highways, railway lines and corridors of regional and international importance. When you have a very good infrastructure, and near preferred passenger and rail corridors, then you are an easy candidate to open new factories and other direct investments. Then investors come and look to join those corridors, and the state has huge benefits. Why are the corridors significant? Above all, they are important to contribute to the development of the part of Serbia they are going through. The Moravia Corridor is of exceptional strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. By building the Moravia Corridor, we will have a direct link between Corridors 10 and 11. This highway plays a highly significant role because it connects central parts of Serbia east-west to Corridor 10. We will have a better connection between the southwest and the southeast parts of the country and Bulgaria and Greece. The route from Pojat to Preljina connects territory in the area of seven municipalities and cities in the valley of West Morava. The track will be connected to Cačka with Corridor 11. It is a modern traffic station, and the road will connect the low highway with the Belgrade-South Adriatic highway. This is an important infrastructure project of regional importance in terms of economic and development. It will allow better integration of the Republic of Serbia with international traffic corridors. In this way, we will have an increase in road transport and international traffic. The Moravia Corridor needs Serbia because in that part of the country we have a high concentration of small and medium-sized enterprises. In this way, we will make it easier for people to do business and traffic between the Pojats in the east, i.e. Chačka in the west. It will connect areas where half a million people live and operate over 20,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs and where 10 business and one free zone are formed. That is why the highway is of invaluable importance to central Serbia. The point is that time savings will be achieved, lower prices for transport of goods and services, increased availability to tourist destinations, municipal centres and business areas. The local population will benefit greatly and improve the quality of life. Another thing to solve is to set up telecommunications infrastructure along the highway and thus create conditions for the highest quality telecommunications services in the places that the highway connects. All that was unimaginable during the previous government, despite numerous promises, is being built today thanks to this government and President Aleksandr Vukic. Serbia is becoming a leader in the region by the number ofkm of highways. In the past few years alone, 300km of highways have been built. The development of infrastructure determines the way we move and communicate with the environment, but also the safe path to the future. Investment in traffic infrastructure is important for our development growth. All this will result in higher revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also in strengthening the local potential of municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56126	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56127	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, I must say that we MPs from the SNS parliamentary group started this working day with a very proud name, this map of Serbia, which is ahead of us that outlines the road infrastructure that has been built, the one that is under way, and the one whose construction is planned, shows how far Serbia has gone in development. Of course, they commend the ministry for such a good preparation. Something Serbia has been waiting for 70 years has become a reality. Serbia connects with neighbours, as regards transport infrastructure, and this is of great importance to our economy as well. 445.9 kilometers of travel infrastructure was built for four years, i.e. from 2014 to 2018. An additional 102.7km is under way, and another 698km is planned. For our country, these investments are, in addition to the significantly facilitated movement of citizens, faster and more comfortable travel means new factories, new investors, new employment of workers and even more economic growth. There are people who are not here today, and who are in public acting so that all forces are trying to talk about this subject through a negative approach. They mention some deadlines, mention performers, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the 70 years before, how long Serbia has been waiting for projects like this? This government has done a historic thing for Serbia. Let us all acknowledge the merits of this government for something that is so important to our country. Have we forgotten that President Vukic led Serbia out of bankruptcy through reform policy to a country that is rapidly developing? We cannot and must not forget because there is serious work behind it, responsible policy and huge commitment to this country and its citizens. This highway of Pojate-Preljina connects central Serbia and connects Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, which also enables the equipment of three industrial zones along this highway, as this project regulates and Morava with its tributaries, as well as telecommunications infrastructure. Therefore, all these projects are of strategic importance to Serbia and guarantee the future for our country and our citizens. I must mention that Serbia has been removed from the grey list of the International Organisation for the Control and Prevention of Money Laundering, which practically means more investment in our country and significantly better business. Next, the expensive loans we draw from the earlier period have been replaced by five times cheaper loans. So we swapped 7.25% interest at 1.61%. It is indeed a historic minimum by which Serbia is in debt. With the road infrastructure we built and built by Serbia, it definitely has all the preconditions to focus on what drives the whole world, which is business development. I remain only to express hope that in the future and the east of Serbia will get better roads, as my distinguished counterpart, Arsic, mentioned in his presentation, because indeed the east of Serbia deserves better road infrastructure. We wait and hope so, and thank you for everything you've done for Serbia so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56128	A colleague of Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56129	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that, and of course we all know that the development, prosperity of the country depends on the integration of cities, municipalities and other places within one country with an adequate road infrastructure network and that good travel infrastructure has a huge importance for the economic life of every country and so does our countries of Serbia. We all know that 50 years of highways have not been built in Serbia, but thanks to the great engagement of the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, of this government, of your ministry, whose head you have been on for the last four years, it has been built over 300km of highways, which is commendable. When we talk about the Moravia Corridor in the opening exhibition, and later in discussions with MPs you explained in detail, it is indeed a project number one, a very important and complicated infrastructure project that contains its three components or three projects, which is the construction of the highway, the regulation of the river Morava troughs and its tributaries and the construction of telecommunications infrastructure along the entire Moravia Corridor. The project of building infrastructure corridor E761, part of Pojate-Preljina predicts, as we have heard, connecting Corridors 10 and 11 and of vital importance are not only for half a million inhabitants living along South, West and Great Morava, but also for millions of other inhabitants who are gravitating in the region, that is. As we have heard, more than 21 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs operate in the area and 10 business and one free zone. The Moravia corridor will also connect Cicevic, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vranjčka banja, Kraljevno and Cačak. I have to say, to all of us who have traveled the regional, or the Master's route from Pojat to Cajat, and still, we were able to make sure on the spot how busy this road is and how freely I can say that it is one of the most burdened in Serbia and that it is very busy, so we need the Moravski corridor over and over. As for the benefits of building this corridor, they are numerous and we have heard much about your presentation and my colleagues from the SNS, I will only mention some of them in order not to take too much time. So under number one, we're going to have a really modern, modern and safe highway. We'll have a regulation of the water supply of Morava and its tributaries. So there won't be any consequences like we had after the flood in 2014. It will be set up, as I said, the most modern telecommunications infrastructure along the mentioned highway. The integration and development of the region's economy covering the Moravia Corridor will take place. Improving the quality of life of the local population, the development of industry, economy, agriculture, as well as tourism and health, Banjski and mountainous. Because we know that in this part of Serbia there are six mountains, such as Kopalnik and Jasrabac, Zradićke Mountains, Goc, Tables, Cemera, 20 monasteries, such as Ljubostina, Sopocani, Kalenić, Žic, etc. Ten baths, Vrnjačka, Bogotavka, Jozanica, etc. which are highly visited and very popular among tourists both domestic and foreign. In addition to the Benefits mentioned, we should say that by building the Moravski Corridor, we get time savings, faster development of Serbia's transport network, lower transport costs, which is not to be ignored. The improved accessibility of economic and social development, local self-government, which will be even better connected in this way. A good environment for attracting domestic and foreign investments, opening new factories and expanding the capacities of existing factories, which also carries new citizens' employment. The construction of the Moravski Corridor will also contribute to the employment of our domestic construction operations, and consequently there will be new employment on the one hand, and on the other hand the use of services and trade in local self-governments in which work takes place, in terms of the use of services and trade in local self-government, as well as the capacity to accommodate the workforce, etc. In addition, the participation of domestic construction operations will also affect the acquisition of knowledge and experience in such large and demanding projects as the Moravia Corridor, but it will contribute to obtaining credibility and respect for our domestic building operations in other countries in the world. Accordingly, in the voting day we will support this project and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56130	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56131	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with workers, project implementation and construction of the infrastructure corridor of the Pojate-Preljina section is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia. It represents the union of Corridors 10 and 11, so that in fact the central parts of Serbia connect with this network of roads. More cities and municipalities to be divided into industrial zones will be connected, which is very important. This means connecting the number of investors in that part of Serbia. New investors will be brought in to open new factories, allowing new jobs. The space these cities are located in will be more connected. A large number of Banish resorts and monasteries are located here. There are six mountains and lives over half a million people, which means this highway is important for the development of tourism. The current length of the Moravia Corridor is 110 kilometers and a telecommunication highway is built parallelly and conditions are provided for providing the highest quality telecommunications services, thus improving the quality of life of the population of these municipalities. It is important to add works on the Moravi River and the surrounding waters as mentioned today, thus removing the danger of floods. And finally, what's most important for the implementation of this project is that we have the necessary documentation, that we have a stable budget and a political situation that will allow us to complete this task. Over 400km of new highways have been built over the past few years, and the construction of three new roads is about to begin. The roads have been completely different over the past few years. I mention only some of the important infrastructure sites, the Kelebija loop highway – Subotica South, Corridor 10 Eastern Krak Nis - border with Bulgaria, Corridor 11 Surčin – Obrenovac – Ub, Ljig – Grdelička gorge. Serbia is rapidly developing and building and we should support projects that lead our country to progress. We today have a large number of foreign investors who want to invest in Serbia's infrastructure. Turkish companies are participating in several major road transport infrastructure projects. For example, in the construction of the future highway Belgrade – Sarajevo and the reconstruction of the traffic from Novi Pazar to Tutin. Pupin's bridge was jointly built by Serbian and Chinese companies. It represents a symbol of our great friendship and we have signed the largest number of agreements with the Republic of China. This bridge connects Borch and Zemun and is the first bridge over the Danube in 80 years. It is also very important to realise the project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Belgrade railway – Budapest. The project is jointly realised by Serbia, China and Hungary in order to have a fast track built within the deadline. We see that through the policy of this government, the initiative is being implemented and the dialogue on economic policies is being promoted. International co-operation in the area of infrastructure, trade, finance and the attracting of significant resources from sources, including the private sector, is strengthened, all in order to provide infrastructure development as the basis for long-term sustainable growth. That's why this government has done ten times as much as the other, from highways, factories, railroads, hospitals, schools and everything else. Serbia is building, growing and connecting. Rural environments are connected. With new roads, nothing new infrastructure, which contributes most to the development of the economy. Serbia is more economically powerful than ever. It has growth, lowers public debt, reduces unemployment from year to year. Finally, I sincerely congratulate you on the results achieved and wish you success in your work, and I call on my fellow Members and colleagues to support the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56132	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56133	I thank the chairman. Respected co-worker, Moravski Corridor is another in a number of infrastructure projects that are being done in Serbia. It represents a strategic significance for our country. When we talk today about road and rail corridors, infrastructure projects and everything that makes our country more successful and richer in this area, or in this field, when we almost easily pronounce the names of new corridors and infrastructure projects that are going to work, we have to say that it hasn't always been that way. The former government left the state on the verge of bankruptcy with its boastful behaviour and robbery in 2012. By coming to the SNS authorities, he was waiting for a hard job. In a very short time we managed to settle public finances, the state of Serbia became a strong, stable, fiscally consolidated country, which for the fourth year in a row records surplus in the budget, a country to which we managed to restore pride, reputation and dignity. In addition, the engine of the development of the Republic of Serbia was needed, and that is certainly infrastructure. The government of Aleksandar Vukic and after that, Ana Brnabic realised that infrastructure is the key to the development of the Republic of Serbia and they put it as a priority. That is why the Moravia Corridor, which is a total length of 110 km, is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, and especially for this part of the Republic where about 500,000 people live and where the construction of the Corridor will primarily contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the economy of this part of the Republic, then the economic and social development of local self-government, by the arrival of naturally increasing number of investors. It's all about employment, tourism development and a lot more. Serbia today is a state with strong and stable finances, a state that has become an economic political leader in the region, a state with a network of corridors, passenger and railway routes, working tens of kilometers of highways, regional roads, as well as a large number of untegorised roads. It is not surprising, therefore, that as a country, we have become an inevitable destination to invest a growing number of serious foreign investors. In the end, great commendations on the account of the highly expert team of the resolution ministry and headed by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56134	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56135	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister, I congratulate you on the successes you've achieved. Dear People's MPs, the Moravski Corridor Preljina-Pojate, i.e. Cačak-Kruševac, is listed in the busiest routes in Serbia, as well as the Fruskogorski Corridor, Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac and the extension to Zrenjanin, the Banatski Corridor, Belgrade-Zrenjanin, but also the direction of Shabac-Loznica, i.e. Lajkovac-Valjevo. The Moravia Corridor E-761 should connect all major settlements in the region, Cačak, Kraljevo, Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik, Kruševac, Stalac, Cicevic and other smaller places. For half a million, i.e. More than half a million inhabitants of the region, today we can say holiday, because they finally get the freeway, because they're finally solving West Morava's waterway. Not only for them, for all of Serbia today is a holiday, because the Moravia Corridor is of exceptional strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. The specificity of this law, which we are adopting today, refers to procedures which have been seen to slow down the effective implementation of all infrastructure projects, and above all to procedures for the determination of public interest and individual expropriation procedures in order to shorten the deadlines prescribed by the Expropriation Act. The adoption of such a special law relating to the implementation of this project is not lonely in our legislation, because they have already passed specific laws for the implementation of the project, such as "Belgrade on Water", construction of the Master's gas pipeline South Stream or for the realization of the project concerned by "Zelezare" Smederevo. When it's built, so-called. Moravia corridor E-761, i.e. Share of Pojate-Preljina, will improve access and integration of parts of the Republic of Serbia with international traffic Corridors 10 and 11. The time will save transport of passengers and goods in this direction, lower transport costs, improve accessibility and increase traffic safety. It will increase the competitiveness of the economy of the central part of the Republic of Serbia, regionally link the central part of Serbia and intensify commercial activities on built-up road flows will increase revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It will increase the number of new businesses, contribute to the development of tourism and GDP values, thus increasing the social development of local self-government, which will be linked to this corridor. This law will allow for effective and efficient construction of the Moravia Corridor, given that applying existing rules, this was not possible. It's what it's going to be. This law regulates the establishment of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity for the construction of highways along with the regulation of rivers and the construction of telecommunications infrastructure along highway corridors. The procedure of expropriation, the choice of a strategic partner, the application of international standards for the design and implementation of works, customs procedures and taxes applied in the import, equipment and materials, as well as the regulation of other issues in order to make this project more efficient. As a result of the possible non-administering of this law, it would be a delay in starting construction works, i.e. on the construction of the infrastructure corridor. That is why I believe that the proposed legal solution is good and that it should be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56136	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Stanija Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56137	I thank the chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with their associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, thanks to our president's economic stabilisation and bold moves, then former Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, Serbia is saved from bankruptcy and has received stable state finances. Serbia is no longer the same. Serbia has moved and changed. Serbia has become a stable country and this brings us international reputation, respect, an independent and sovereign country that is believed to be a reliable partner to its friends. The government's strategic decision, as well as the current government of Ana Brnabic, is to invest in road, rail and water infrastructure and connect Serbia with the region and Europe. Construction of highways and fast roads is a prerequisite for further economic progress. In addition to Corridor 10, the construction of a section of the highway on Corridor 11 of Preljina and Požega, worth 450m euros, the construction of the Moravia Corridor E-761 and the Pojate-Preljina section, is of exceptional strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, for connecting and greater mobility within the country and regional importance for reducing transport costs and will contribute to increasing revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Strong Serbia is behind us, and that is the only way that we can help us, and we believe it, because we have President Aleksandar Vukic, who understands us and who wants to solve one of the most difficult issues of Kosovo and Metohija through peace and negotiations, because even after seven months of tax of 100%, introduced to us by Albanians and who in northern Kosovo and Metohija create a humanitarian disaster, leave us without goods and basic food products, drug-free pharmacies, we do not fear and trust our president, we trust our country that cares for us and who invests in us, our institutions. Thanks to the construction and investment, in our institutions and to the investment in waterway which is of regional importance for the road, for the development of Zubino Potok, Kosovo Mitrovica and Zvecan, which will be opened on Vidovdan day, June 28th, means Friday and which will give us great security, because since then, Albanians will not determine whether we will have water for two, three or five days. We will have the opportunity to use what is normal for all citizens of this country. The Bani complex of spas will also be built, which will be a major development of tourism for that part of our country. So, Serbia goes forward, goes through justice, justice and truth, and only such a Serbia can be trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56138	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic. The remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group is 2 minutes and 43 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56139	I thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, draft law establishing public interest and special procedures for the implementation of the project of building the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 section of Pojate-Preljina highway. The Moravia Corridor E-761 Pojate-Preljina is of paramount importance for the Republic of Serbia, as well as for connecting and greater mobility of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for regional importance. Improving access and connecting the central parts of the Republic of Serbia with the international traffic route Corridor 10, which is part of the most significant trans-European transport network of roads, time saving, reducing transport costs, improving accessibility, as well as increasing the security of traffic on the entire highway network in Serbia, significantly further linking the effects on traffic flows and regional integration, resulting in higher revenues for the Republic of Serbia's budget and intensifying commercial activities on built-in road flows. Construction of the Moravski Corridor, as direct links to Corridor 11, Preljina-Požega and Požega-Uzice-Kotroman, which together form a functional continent, where internal and transit traffic from Bosnia and Herzegovina towards Bulgaria and Greece is increasing, in particular. The future highway will be built partly on the existing route, and part on the new route and will connect all the settlements in the region of Ćićavac, Stalać, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo, Čačak. There are 500,000 people living in this area, operating over 21,000 small businesses and entrepreneurs, forming 10 business areas and one free zone, there are six mountains, 20 monasteries and 10 destinations of Banj tourism. Construction of a telecommunications highway that monitors road transfers provides the best quality telecommunications services in both the highway belt and all the places that gravity the highway. This is of great importance for improving the quality of life of the local population, as well as for the industrial, business and tourism development of the central regions of the Republic of Serbia, domestic, foreign companies already operating in this region, as well as for attracting domestic and foreign investors. The project provides for regulatory work on the Moravi River, as well as on the tributaries poured into Morava, and their completion will permanently resolve the risk of floods in this area. The subject of this law are the regulations governing the field of expropriation, planning, design, construction, public procurement, customs regulations, the subject of the regulation of this law are also the procedures for which it has been seen to slow down the effective implementation of all infrastructure projects. This applies to procedures for the determination of public interest, individual expropriation procedures, where the proposed amendments relate to the reduction of the deadlines prescribed by the Expropriation Act, as well as to parts of the procedures which allow the use of legal means which are not explicitly provided for by material regulations. The maximum change consists of a reduction of deadlines and application of certain provisions relating to customs regulations on the application of international standards, as well as the application of certain provisions governing public procurement. The proposal for this law does not jeopardise the fundamental rights of the owner of exploited immovable property, given that in all cases the principle of determining the market value for exploited immovableity has been maintained. The construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway is an investment momentum for the Republic of Serbia, which will have a positive impact on citizens and businesses, entrepreneurs from local self-government through which the corridor passes in the form of new employment, the opening of new business zones and the engagement of local business entities that will allow the increase of gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-26-0.u56140	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. That's what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
