ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52243	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 78 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings of Parliament Vice-President Djordje Milicevic. We continue the search in detail on item 6 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOMMODATION LAW The National MP Ružica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52244	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on hospitality is another law that is fully in line with EU legislation. We also pointed out to you yesterday, but also at previous sessions, the execution of EU laws and the unnecessarily acceptance of everything the EU requires of us. We should make the laws in the interests of Serbian citizens and be applicable, not to bring our laws in line with European laws just because the EU asks us to. Everything the EU has imposed on us has been devastating for the citizens of Serbia. That is why we are constantly telling you to give up the devastating path to the EU that we will never enter and we do not want to enter at all. We need the Household Act, but not in this kind of proposed form. That is why through the amendments we have offered solutions that will improve the level of quality in providing services in catering work in the Republic of Serbia. By amendment to Article 1, we have specified the subject matter of the law governing the conditions and way of carrying out catering work in Serbia and we suggest that you accept this amendment, because this is certainly a better legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52245	Thank you very much. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does the MP want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Household Act. As you could see, this member speaks of catering facilities related to specific tourism branches such as nautical tourism, water tourism, etc. If you look at the essence of this law and the reasoning that you give here, the law is said to be passed to prevent the gray economy. Of course, no one has anything to do with it, but I don't think that's the answer to all the problems. There are many things in this area and in the area of tourism that are compatible with this branch and which should be solved in a different way. That fight against the gray economy won't solve all the problems. The law suggests that a number, a large number of responsibilities be transferred to local self-government units, which in itself is not bad, but yet there is one problem of another kind, which is that different local self-governments approach this problem in different ways. We already have a situation on Serbia's territory that certain local self-governments prescribe fees that are not suitable for the moment and the economic and financial environment in which our citizens live, so that there are a number of complaints from citizens, not the citizens who are engaged in catering, even the situation that such large taxis lead to the closure of the facilities. So it had to be taken care of this thing as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52247	Thank you. Ambassador, you don't have time anymore. Miletić, you've wasted your time. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet submitted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Household Act. With this amendment, I asked for the words "nautical" to be added: "for needs". The amendment speaks of a better way to define all types of catering services. In fact, we all know that there are several types of catering services and that is why the Agency for Business Registers is obliged to perform their classification precisely, which will certainly facilitate the application of this law. I was born in Kosovo and Metohija, where I lived until I was forced to leave my home hearth in the Kosovo Sea. I've been a manager there for many years in one catering company, and I know from experience what kind of problems there are in this activity. All your laws are passed according to the EU order. You do not always pass the laws according to the order and to the standards prescribed by the EU. Sometimes it is necessary to step away from it, because many things are inapplicable to our conditions, especially when it comes to this area. For example, when it comes to smoking in catering facilities, imagine our citizen smoker who is not allowed to smoke in a catering facility, even if it is in a separate area? Then what's he doing there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52249	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52250	Mr. Minister, this law did not really adequately regulate key areas of the hospitality domain, and as before, it left the possibility of sublaws defining the categorisation of rural households. I think that should be of particular interest to you, as Minister for Agriculture, because in addition to this segment you are engaged in agricultural production, and how you must pay attention to incentives for rural tourism. What exists isn't enough, and especially because, here's an example of what it's going to look like, to illustrate it to you. We have colleagues from various parts of Serbia here. We are all, of course, proud of that Serbia is a beautiful country, which is a rural tourism which had its own turn in Ivanjica, Arilje, so in these Golija villages now extended to Zlatar, Pribo, Nova Varoš, Pirot, Kosmaj, Vojvodina, Shumadi, Ljubovija, Loznica, to all these cities, because it would really take me a long time to list what quality rural households in Serbia are. But now there's one problem. The problem arises at a time when a rural household needs to carry out that categorization. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what the rules for the categorization of the rural household look like? The farmers of the Valjevo region, and in the end Koserić and Mionica and all these beautiful villages where ethno-tourism was extremely developed, among those who wanted to start doing the job, when they saw the rule, their hair on their heads rose. On 12 densely typed sides, Mr. Minister, they are asked to guarantee at any moment that they will have so much electricity provided, which is not dependent on them because in many villages there are traffickers from 40 and some years. So tell us what you're going to do as a minister to help these people start this job, if they want to, and of course they want to, because rural tourism is the future of tourism and hospitality, combined through ethnic restaurants and providing these services?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52251	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52252	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, although we are not talking about the Tourism Act now, is very close and connected. We have one amendment submitted by MP Martinovic, who the government has accepted, which is on Article 28. He says it is allowed to introduce national subsidies for rural tourism promotion projects. But there's one more thing I need to tell you. In addition to these national measures, we will have a later chance to discuss this, I must tell you, that measure seven under the IPARD project involves rural tourism and it will be accredited in September of the month, so that besides national funds and these funds will be available. What does it mean exactly? For projects ranging from 5,000 euros to 300,000 euros, for those with up to 30 beds, they will be able to compete for building facilities, for equipment, for infrastructure, for upgrading, for all that is necessary for one rural household to be positioned in a quality way. As for the regulation itself, which is related to meeting the conditions to be found in the categorization of rural households, there is much to be done with local self-government so that this infrastructure is improved and they do not have any interference. Of course, up until a few years ago, we haven't even talked about this segment of tourism, but by developing infrastructure and developing financial potentials, which are at the disposal of state-owned Serbia, and these things have come to the agenda. In addition to all the measures the state has used over the voucher so far, now with this E tourist, i.e. the flat tax, it is related to those facilities that have up to 30 beds, up to 30 nights, we will develop a platform on which tourism in rural households can be developed much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52253	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52254	When Emir Kusturica on one hill on the slopes of Tara, now known as Woodengrad, Wekroy Gora, began to build his ethic village and this city that admires the whole world, there was nothing, no electricity, no access roads, absolutely nothing. A world artist, a celebrated Serbian director, wanted to make that part of Serbia more beautiful by building from his money, and later with the help of the loans he had to take, Drvengrad, but that could have been one Kusturica. We have such examples, and Mr. Cekovic in his native Kostunicas, as well as a gentleman in you near Vrnik who is a returner from abroad so he could do so. What's a peasant doing in Mionica? These Martinovic incentive measures at national level, and you say, I'm not talking about that law, I'm talking about categorization, there's a gentleman with you from the ministry, a member of 2nd in the rural household. This categorization is an impossible mission for someone who is required to have asphalt to that facility, so it is not his fault that the local self-government has not done anything. This man is not guilty of EPS having trafoes that are old, like I said, 50 years old or that mobile phone any network has no good signal. All of this is required for him to meet the requirements to carry out the categorization. So, Mr. Minister, first of all, infrastructure, traffic, and not to let Zoran here hollow and empty stories keep spilling, but to the lady from the legendary Kusics, near Ivanjica, to see what the path is like. Let this escaped Rasim Ljajic take a view of the Prayer on the Cave which is one of the most beautiful areas. You have nowhere to go. It's the wheelways. Do you realize it's a risk? Last year I was during what's-his-name. With a group of his associates, I went there to visit with my wife. We couldn't get close to the van. We were able to walk a few miles. People ask – what is this, why is it this way. Sjenica, Uvac, the entire area of Lake Uvački, you meandri, so it's the most beautiful thing you can see, Mrs. Gojkovic, and on the RTS commercial and on other commercials. We're proud of the pictures, and live, here you go, all of you, and see how you get to the horizon.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52255	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52256	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as a priority goal, the need to reduce the grey economy in all the activities that the Law on Attending regulates, is defined, but we are not sure that anything in this field will be positively done, that when this law is adopted, it will improve and improve the way in which it works in Serbia, as long as there is a person at the head of this ministry who is involved in criminal affairs. As long as the head of this ministry is Rasim Ljajic, we suspect that order will be introduced into the area of tourism and hospitality. Article 2 The bill defines the concepts used and we are asking for an amendment to delete this article, because the terms and definitions do not constitute a legal norm, they only burden the legal text and this law primarily needs to deal with the essence of carrying out catering work in Serbia, because it conditions the development of those economic activities that participate in meeting the needs of domestic and foreign tourists and which should contribute and create conditions for increasing the number of jobs and employment in catering, rather than dealing with these concepts and just burdening the legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52257	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52258	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this member of the law defines the concept of hospitality. We have already shown you that the law should deal with the essence of this activity, not the very concepts and definition of concepts. We have also pointed out several shortcomings and illogicalities in this Bill proposal, and I would therefore ask you, Minister, what is a major offense, whether if a prescribed invoice is not issued for the service provided or if the facility does not maintain room, or rooms and equipment and does not provide services according to the prescribed minimum – technical and sanitary – hygiene conditions? We will agree that it is necessary and that it is a priority fight against the gray economy and that it is one of the basic objectives of this bill, but also for the health of people, we must think and it must also be one of the priorities, and health can be threatened precisely by poor sanitary – hygiene conditions. I asked you this because the fines for the non-account violation are bigger, much bigger than the violations for not providing services according to the prescribed minimum sanitary – hygiene conditions. We think you should pay more attention to that, not to define the concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52259	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law asking that certain things be better and more precise. You know, hospitality is still a specific area, but the state today's hospitality realizes, sends an inspection, any market, financial, municipal, sanitary, etc., make fear in the bones of the host owners and they'll have to keep quiet. So that's not the approach it's supposed to be towards. The state through its law, first of all, should be a guarantee and service in this activity, as well as in all activities, especially as we all know that in this area the state has done nothing and all that exists in this area, the owners of the catering facilities themselves have done so. And not only did they do it themselves, but when they invested in these facilities they encountered a series of obstacles, a series of administrative problems. We have a lot of times the situation that that infrastructure that the local self-government was supposed to do, it's not done either, but simply people had to either look for connections, or to bribe, or invest themselves, so that, say, part of the street is paved up to them, in order to boost the voltage in the trafo, etc. So, it is not the purpose of this law to punish people, to prevent the gray economy, which we agree to prevent, but it is necessary to find some reasonable measure that this activity still works in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52261	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does he want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Dubravko Bojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say that long ago in this House, the proposal was not more modestly represented, even Minister Nedimovic was lonely yesterday in defending these legislative proposals, which best speaks of the government's relationship with both the National Assembly and the MPs. The proposal for a catering law should regulate relations on the catering market. It was formerly a law, a law on tourism that regulated the area and tourism and hospitality. It is now a new legislative fashion model for EU regulation and other developed tourism countries in the environment. These two areas are inseparable. I can't do it without each other. They're going together. Unfortunately, there is an advantage here given to legislative technique, so these two related areas are unnaturally separated. The reasons for the adoption of these laws, as well as the analysis of the effects of the previous law, are almost identical. What does that mean? Well, it's just that even the promoter wasn't sure of the justification for this kind of solution. The proposal for a law on hospitality makes it clear how much symbiosis these two areas are, as basic provisions explain certain concepts used in the law, mention terms: hunting and tourism activity, scientific and tourist work, rural tourism. The object of hunting and rural tourism cannot be its own purpose and purpose, but is the object of a visit, a specific type of tourism, not an object in the function of using catering services.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52263	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52264	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed amendment to the SRS concerning hospitality, Article 3. The bill is important for traditional values both tourism and hospitality. Local self-governments need to take more seriously the process of categorising rural tourist households to achieve the right effect and recognise all that such a household can offer. Local self-government and tourist organisation are obliged to categorize rural households and also assist in providing services to this household registered for hosting work. The programme of education in the hotel and co-operation of the resolution ministry should be improved, both education and tourism on the one hand, college schools and the private sector on the other. Then, as far as eating in rural tourist destinations is concerned, it should be devoted to the local traditional cuisine, which is slightly forgotten, by offering to the guests and thus recognising our traditional heritage, and especially foreign tourists will gain a richer idea of the culture of our people's lives. Strengthening the control and work of inspection services is necessary in order to introduce unregistered rural households, which deal with tourist offer, into legal flows. I'm going to use Mr. Nedimovic's presence to invite him to come down a little bit as a resolute minister, a little bit and in the southwest part of Serbia, and it's a good thing that you were in Ariel yesterday and laid a cornerstone, but it would be worth laying some cornerstone in that part, if possible, ministers. And there you will be welcomed by radicals as they have welcomed you in Ariel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52265	Thank you. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Proposal for a Household Act. And this, like all other amendments submitted by the SRS, aims to point out that it is a very serious matter that literally concerns every citizen of Serbia. I asked the amendment to go beyond words -- culturally, they add words -- and historical. Most cultural goods in our country have outstanding historical significance, so I believe that this amendment should necessarily be accepted. As a man who was born and raised in Kosovo and Metohija, I thought first of all about those cultural historical goods located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia and other than the cultural and historical goods of the Serbian people there are cultural and historical goods belonging to other ethnic communities and peoples. I feel that all cultural and historical goods should be taken care of equally. Unfortunately, the Serbian cultural and historical heritage in Kosovo and Metohija today has been seriously threatened, although it is invaluable in terms of world scales. The worst of all is the attempt to kidnap and capture our heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why this government has to do everything to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52267	On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Household Act. In Article 4 after item 5, a new position 6 is added – all types of catering services are precisely defined in the Agency for Business Registers. There are now known to be a large number of different catering services. In addition to the classic catering services as we know it, some new types of catering and tourist services such as hunting and nautical tourism are increasingly being celebrated. This is also spoken of in the law but not in a sufficient and precise way. This type of hospitality is mainly intended for foreign tourists and it brings large and solid incomes. In light of the law, it is said that the most important effect of this law is to curb the gray economy in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52269	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's a colleague of Ljubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52270	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, we believe that it is necessary for certain things to be clearly defined when adopting the Household Law, so we in the SRS have submitted this amendment to Article 4. Article 4 refers to the definition of catering activity and to who and how it can perform it. We have proposed to add a new position 6 which reads – The Agency for Business Registers is obliged to issue a solution for the start of catering work within three days of the date of submission of the complete documentation. The opinion of the SRS parliamentary group is that such an amendment should oblige the Agency for Economic Registers to issue a solution within a reasonable period of time to start carrying out the catering work. Given that the promoter of the catering area wants to legally define separately from tourism, which has so far been the case, he explained that as a priority, the task is to define the fight against the gray economy, improve Serbia's competitiveness as a tourist destination, improve the special environment and simplify jobs for natural persons, provide catering services, accommodations that dominate Serbia's housing capacity structure, and digitise tourism and hospitality by introducing modern technologies in business both business operators and the public sector. If the promoter really wants to simplify the business of the catering service provider, it is necessary to avoid all bureaucratic obstacles and thus the duration of the issue of a solution to start carrying out the catering work, which would be achieved by accepting this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52271	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. The 84th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 85 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment with the correction. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52272	We accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52273	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the Law. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for a tourism law. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Dubravko Bojic, Ružica Nikolic, Nikola Savic, Petar Jojić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Despotović, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanović, Filip Stojanović, Marina Ristić, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Dr Aleksandar Martinović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52274	Mr Marinkovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this law followed his first draft only after the fraud of tourists in Serbia escalated, so last year when more than eight thousand tourists, of two agencies, "Fly Flay", "Sab", as well as one smaller travel organiser from Cačka, was probably an alarm to Rasim Ljajic, who has been an incompetent minister in that portfolio for more than five years, that something needs to change. What we've been given as a proposal is nothing, a description of what it will be, we don't know when it will be, or whether and now all Serbian citizens should know that by the start of the tourist season if they're going to pay some of the arrangements, and many of them are even sold after the successful Belgrade tourist stock exchange, when people have had various discounts, to think about whether they actually paid off Poekin's village and how they can secure and pay back their money. Do you think someone who hasn't done anything in the field, and such fraud has been since 2011, started with Trinity, United Travels and all others, that now suddenly in a few months, and this minister who cannot come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will arrange this area? How? We don't know, we hear from the media. Here, I've been following it for months, probably other MPs, if they were interested in it, and Mr. Senicic from Utah and statements from various assistants and state secretaries, we'll have a graduation of tourist agencies by having on one side the organizers and those who are subagents, or intermediaries. Well, that's what we've had so far. But how do you think you do it and show people that it won't happen? So they're not systemically in the law that's here before us, Mr. Marinkovic, these standards have been established. And you've heard it's likely to be group A, B and C, from-to go deposits and insurance policies. What we've heard is, according to Serbian radicals, okay. For travel organisers, it has to be that deposit of half a million and a million euros, insurance policy, to ensure that people are provided. (President: Thank you. Here, let me finish the sentence. That we don't talk about what we're going to have in this country and this country, the problem of administrative disputes and the non-reaction of courts in time, and that's only going to show up when, unfortunately, these problems are escalating.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52275	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52276	And this bill comes down to the same thing. It is done in order to fit the standards of the European Union. But what is worrying is the fact that we all know that no matter what we do, which chapters we have opened and how we fit those standards, Chapter 35 is a key chapter for "entry" into the European Union and we are all aware of that. In recent days, it has been intensified to insist on recognising and establishing good neighbourly relations, recognising an independent state of Kosovo. This is just makeup in front of the public that we are dealing with standardisation adopted by the former European Union, and an even bigger disgrace is for this high home that no single moment has appeared the minister of resolution dealing with this problem, and the biggest shame for all of us is that the ruling coalition has so far not replaced Minister Rasim Ljajic with everything the public is familiar with, because of his compromise and everything he does. It is easy in public, as he does, to justify himself and to speak. I am innocent. Why doesn't he come here before us to Parliament? The function of the minister and the public figure means not only to boast and to talk praises and to deserve these praises in Europe, but also to take a critical look at the opposition, such as the SRS, to his work, to all that is related to him, in the end, and to his activities and outside the ministry. We are familiar with the fact that one of these has been published, a book has been published on everything the Minister has been dealing with for many years, is literally a minister since the Olympic Games were established.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52277	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52278	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Tourism Act is another law that we need to improve tourism in Serbia. However, such a bill that is fully in line with EU legislation will not solve the accumulated problems in the area of tourism in Serbia. We are all witnesses and we know that in the area of tourism in Serbia there is complete chaos and we know that the competent ministry does not control the work of tourist agencies the way we should and that every year we have an increasing number of complaints from citizens about the unconscious and irresponsible behaviour of tourist agencies. In this bill, the competent minister, who should have been removed long ago, has been given too much authority to prescribe the type and conditions of travel guarantees, which is totally unacceptable for us Serbian radicals, since it is the minister who is just guilty of such a mess in tourism, of this situation in this area and who is obviously reckless and irresponsible. Is his behavior the result of a lack of time, because we all know that the competent minister is engaged in a private very profitable illegal business, so he's not here to deal with the business he's supposed to be dealing with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52279	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a tourism law. Tourism and hospitality are compatible branches, compatible activities and, in order not to repeat, everything I have said in my previous amendments, and about hospitality, that applies to tourism. However, there are a very large number of gaps in tourism, but I would not now talk about the failures of tourism organisations and tourist workers, but about the failures of state and state bodies. I will talk about the failures of tourist workers in my next amendment. Namely, all witnesses that for the past ten years, and perhaps more, there has been no case that any of the tourists did not receive the service they paid, for the reasons that the agencies or did not transfer certain funds to hotels where they should be housed tourists, or for similar reasons. Now, after every such situation, we've heard stories that it's the last time, that the state won't tolerate it anymore, that it's something that's inadmissible. However, here last year, according to counterpart Jovanovic, we had six cases maybe more, I can't exactly say, six agencies that didn't respect. So the role of the state, the role of the law, is to ensure that everyone who has paid for this service and gets it, and through the inspection and other authorities, they have to take care of how it will be done and whether it will be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52281	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Professor Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal for a tourism law does not mention enough types of tourism such as cultural, historical, hunting, nautical, sports, health and others. All of these branches have their specifics. The state gives money for the infrastructure to tourist destinations, supports the work of public enterprises, the Ski resorts of Serbia, the Stara Planina, the Golubački grad, Park Palic, the steam never enough. But are these the only addresses that need to be found on the federal mangers? The Serbian Radical Party believes that money must be provided for market research, for promotion of tourism services as well as for improving tourism products and our competitiveness in tourism. A place where the sun hides, the longest avenue of memories in the world, a part of a world where the earth touches paradise, a city of unspeakable stories, meet a hidden jewel, a city whose name is style, a town of fairy tales and a town of fairy tales. These are just some of the online offers for the upcoming tourist season, for destinations abroad. With much more integration and will by our tourist agencies we promote foreign destinations. What about Serbia? Serbia is a land of luxurious beauty, an area of imagination, a country of almost perfect climate, untouched nature, cultural and historical monuments of European and world values, various customs and manifestations, healthy food, drinking water, friendly and welcoming people. Is that small? The Serbian Radical Party thinks it's not small, but it's not enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52283	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52284	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by submitting amendments to Article 1. The proposal for a tourism law is primarily aimed at contributing to a better and more efficient application of the proposed laws, all in the interest and interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All these issues and remarks that we present are the problems of all local tourist organisations. About these and similar problems, the profession said, and it concerns finding a better quality model for private accommodation, i.e. collecting taxes and taxis. Based on this fact, this problem is present in almost all municipalities and cities where there are a large number of housing units that are untegorized and located outside all legal frameworks. There are also examples where the flat tax solves many problems. If flat-rate taxation were to take place in neighborhoods, then a large number of accommodation service providers would enter legal flows, and these revenues would significantly fill municipal and civil budgets. Another problem on this subject is the institution of a local guide who is quite devised. In order for someone to function as a local guide, they must also own a national licence before the local guide license, which is quite difficult and complicated to come by and which, above all, requires significant financial resources. For this reason, why would someone be in charge of a local guide's license if he already owns a national with whom he can be a guide and work on the territory of the entire state. For example, the rangers of the Uvac and Tara national parks know these areas best, but in order to be able to perform their tour guides, they must own a national license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52285	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52286	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 1. The proposal for a tourism law is proposed to add – necessary – ahead of the importance of words. The reason for this amendment is the need to highlight the importance of tourism development. Otherwise, tourism is an area that has something to offer, but unfortunately it is not used enough and the situation of which can and can be improved, especially at the moment when the majority of the population in Serbia lives in very poor material conditions. The southeast of Serbia has numerous natural beauty, and the cultural and historical settlement is significant. As the largest in the Jablanic Management District, the town of Leskovac has significant opportunities for the development of tourism that has not been used enough and whose resources have not been placed in the development and well-being of the citizens of Vucje, the Grdelička gorge, the Preljanska gorge. Leskovac is a city that currently has two significant manifestations – the wooding grill and the woody carnival. These events from year to year are gathering an increasingly significant number of visitors. Leskovac hosts the Finnish festival "Lif", as well as Balkan reviews of young comic authors, which is the oldest comic festival of the former Yugoslavia. Otherwise, in the area of the food industry, two products containing in their name the name of the town of Leskovci, the wood barbeque, the meat and the wooded domestic ajvar. The Serbian people in southern and southeast Serbia have preserved many religious facilities. Two years ago, one of the greatest shrines in the woodland marked 500 years of existence, the famous Yasun monastery “Holy John’s Past. ” Since it is an area that has something to offer, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts has shown interest in Leskovac and the Jablanic Administrative District and in researching the role and impact of tourism on local economic development. Taking into account all these tourist potentials, the reason for the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group is clear and why this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52287	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52288	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, tourism has multiple effects on the economic development of all those economic activities that participate in meeting the needs of tourists and is a major generator of new investment and new business opportunities in developing destinations. The development of domestic tourism is very important, above all, for domestic tourists to spend money in Serbia, i.e. not to bring extra funds abroad. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Serbia for now because the consumption of domestic tourists in Serbia is incomparably lower than what our tourists spend on travel across other countries. This could be replaced by a number of foreign tourists' arrivals, which calls for the introduction of incentive measures and the development of tourism in Serbia. If the incentive measures are greater and if the competent ministry is responsible and quality personnel that will allow more entrepreneurs to appear in tourism can improve tourism in Serbia and we can draw foreign tourists' attention to many interesting destinations in Serbia. However, the development of tourism is not given sufficient attention, although this activity brings and can bring a large foreign exchange inflow of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52289	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and this amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 on behalf of the SRS. The proposal for this law aims to define in a better and more precise way the concepts that are the subject of this law. It is not necessary to stress that tourism today is one of the most important branches of many countries, and even in many countries it is not only the most important branch and most profitable activity, which mostly fills the budget of these countries, such as Spain, Greece, Croatia etc. And now, if we neglect the fact that Serbia has no sea, in all other tourist segments of Serbia, not only can it be compared to these countries, but it is also in front of these countries. If we look at our country's geography and statistics, we will see that Serbia is the country with the largest number of spas compared to its territory and population. However, we have a situation that in this segment, the situation is nowhere near used, and there is a huge, huge space to do something additional. This is especially due to the fact that Banish tourism is closely linked to health tourism, so we have the opportunity to practically do what two in one would say, that people have both a tourist offer and also solve their health problems. And of course here we should mention, let's also say Serbia's religious tourism as a country of great cultural historical traditions, and how it has something to offer tourists. But we here instead of solving these problems, we make laws according to European standards and look to adapt to them instead of adapting the law to our circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52291	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52292	Dear Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen, this set of laws aims to improve the state of tourism, the protection of plants, the protection of food safety, the state of Serbian hospitality and the central register of the population. This amendment, like all amendments of the SRS, is not only proposed to do so for the sake of order, but we want to make both better and more meaningful than those who copy from the EU through the explanations and objections to the proposed laws. If there is no resolution minister present, I ask that I be given an answer to a very simple question as to what was said in public by State Secretary Knezevic about the flat-rate taxation of tourist facilities. In a conversation with people in this area, they agreed that this proposal was a good one, but there's a whole other picture on the ground. A tourist inspection that is debilitating of human resources must have wider powers and work more efficiently on the ground. Here's why. By entering the field, the inspectors control only those facilities that have registered tourist activity, while those operating in the gray economy zone are neither controlled nor taken criminal measures against them. This way of working and dealing with legally registered tourist facilities, punishment measures are implemented. If these penalties have been frequented for legally reported facilities, and others are not controlled and done illegally, then what remains of the legal ones, except to log out the facility and go black. Another in a series of problems that arises in tourism is tax collection, where an electronic application of guests without mediators and without complicated procedures should be introduced. In the end, what about residence fees and will they be charged on a flat-rate basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52293	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52294	Mr. Minister, I will use this amendment, since we have not submitted an amendment to this article on the incentive in tourism, which is necessary to promote one important, and perhaps for that part of Serbia, the most important tourist project, named – the rounding of the magical tourist ring and the necessity for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allocate money to create a panoramic gondola from Lake Perućac in Baja Basta to Mitrovica on Tara, which is part of the Tara National Park. This magical tourist circle actually covers the space and that continent from the Sargan 8th to the famous cadre on Drina, Andric City, then the return to Bajna Basta and Perućac, to Mitrovica on Tara, and through it to Wekra Gora, and this should be a joint project of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, because that part will not only be more attractive, but indeed this panoramic gondola will give a whole new dimension and one experience of which, as we like to say in tourism, is falling short of breath. The arrival of a growing number of Chinese tourists after the removal of visas for citizens and the most people, to us extremely dear and friendly countries, has also affected the raising of the tourist offer with us, to enable even more capacity. Just now Bajna Basta and Tara National Park, an example that a large number of Chinese tourists there were present in a much larger number last year since visas were abolished. What would be the projection and price of the panorama gondola, it is difficult to speak now, but given that there is indeed the natural treasure of Serbia and that everyone who has gone to the view of Banjska Stana on Tara, from where the view of Republika Srpska and the beautiful Drina canyon and Lake Perućac, will agree with me that this kind of investment besides millions of nonsense that you finance, various NGOs, agencies for all and all things that do nothing, is necessary, so that people in that part of Serbia, in that part of western Serbia and the entire tourist area, are employed, and on the other hand this would give an additional and one economic link between the eastern part of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Ministers can't have local self-government as it is in this law member that we Serbian radicals have submitted to the amendment, certain projects to carry out themselves. I'm going to potentiate again what my colleague Mircic was talking about recently, and what we're always saying is that we can't finance a private company project like Exit. You'll say, there are so many guests and tourists coming, and let's do it by the firm that's been defined for it. But, this, the magical tourist ring and the construction of this panoramic gondola, and I don't have time anymore, and this is just one of the vital projects that you have to think about as well as Nedimovic, because now you're present when it's being talked about, the next time you say or when it comes to budget rebalancing or when you're doing projects, because there's going to have to be done, as far as your ministry is concerned, certain preparatory things, that it's necessary and that it's going to raise you up the standard of people and that it's going to stay where people live in that part of Serbia, and that there's going to be many more tourists coming, especially Chinese and other foreign, domestic tourists, because what Serbia has, rarely has a country, and we haven't used it, and the last time to realize that this is our development chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52295	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52296	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a tourism law. Article 2 sets out the principles on which the introduction of relations in the field of tourism is based. We have proposed this amendment to place the word "development" in point 5 in point 1 instead of saying "protection". Our opinion is that the development of the national economy is the basis for the development of tourism. The development of tourism could be the basis for improving the material position of the population in the south and southeast of Serbia, which offers a number of tourism potentials whose developmental representatives of the Serbian government should be a little more concerned. On the territory of the municipality of Lebana, located in the Jablanic administrative district, is the archaeological site of the city of Caricina or Justina Prima from the VI century. It is one of the largest and most important and Byzantine cities within the Balkans, it was erected by the great Byzantine Emperor Justinian I. The city was an important church administrative centre and the city's military centre was paved by rectangular krečnjak plates framed with covered porches with pillars on which the arcs remain. There's an episcopic palace complex. She had floor heating, which was heated with warm air. Then, a large cathedral church that forms the most monumental monuments of Byzantine architecture on the Balkan Peninsula. In the residential part of the city near the forum, a three-ship basilica with a crypt was unearthed in a fragment of the floor mosaic and frescoes. The monuments of the church's world of architecture were erected in the VI century. The settlement was supplied with water from the artificial lake, whose dam was 100 and 6,15m high. By investing in the development of tourism in one environment, such as Lebanon, it would be very important for the residents of this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52297	Thank you, fellow Ljubenović. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52298	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The draft law defines the concepts and we have proposed that this article be "expected", because if the terms are defined, it was necessary in a more precise way to define all terms in the field of tourism. The bill envisions the division of agencies by category, then cash deposits and daily tourist registers, which should bring greater security to Serbian tourists. However, this bill, despite numerous newspapers, does not contain the full protection of tourists from agency fraud, and it happens that most of the owners who lost their license would soon open new agencies. In the previous period, 96 licenses were seized by agencies operating in Serbia, and each sixth owner cheated on passengers. The Serbian Radical Party advocates providing every passenger with a policy that would be mandatory and thus achieve uncomparably greater security and would be paid faster in full and only with the deposit and agency policy would all tourists be taken care of at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52299	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, aims to define in a better and more precise way some of the terms in this Law. I mentioned earlier that this is an extremely important business branch that develops every day. Since I come from the city of Nis, I can say that it is a real pleasure to walk the streets of Nis on weekends, where you will meet one of the foreign tourists at every turn. Most of these foreign tourists are from Bulgaria, although there are many from Macedonia, Romania and other countries. Thank God Nis as a city has something to offer in a touristic way. There is a famous and well-known Cele-Kula, the Archaeological site of Medjana, mentions the complex "Cegar", Niška Fortress, Memorial-park Bubanj and much more. I therefore believe that the state of Serbia should invest more in this branch, because it is obvious that modern current and modern trends are such that an increasing number of people from around the world have a significant and increased desire and opportunities for travel. Of course, Serbia is one of the preferred destinations in every respect, because they have something to see, above all, because of the hospitality of our citizens themselves. So don't make the law just because the EU wants it. If that's the only reason we shouldn't bring it. It is obvious that in this branch, there is a huge space for progress in this area and for these economic branches, and therefore for filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52301	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha SP, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52302	Registration of tourist agencies and their classification is a serious and responsible job. The fact that he is a longtime member of the Association of Tourist Agencys, i.e. YUTA, which gives recommendations on its website to those who have been doing this job for a long time, is no guarantee at all, as we have seen, for example, in S.A.B. Travel. It is an agency that has existed on the market for a long time, if it has yet committed a huge fraud against its clients. Serbian citizens must think carefully, especially when travelling abroad. What do they get for that price of the arrangement, and does that fit in with their "traveling out of dreams"? If that arrangement is particularly favourable, they can't expect some luxury in a hotel or accommodation in the center itself. If the travel agency promises this in the description of its arrangement, the immediate tourist inspection must react and not wait for something to happen, and after it is brought to the owners by the authorities, and the question is, believe me, Mr. Nedimovic, how many unsettled disputes are left with citizens. I tried to get that information, see how many more people are running around the courts over disputes with various travel agencies. It's an impossible mission, because it's been piling up for years. Now with such an orderly ministry and this kind of inspection, so these inspectors, Mr. Marinkovic, aren't there, but you tell him, you're probably still not entrenched, if you're going to be that Caliph instead of the Caliph, in that party, to tell him they could have seen something wrong in January last year. You know, all reports of Serbian citizens are enough alarms to respond, not when something is just happening. Serbian citizens must have adequate protection. In the end, they have the Constitution and the RS Constitution guarantees it, not to wait for them to be deceived in their own country, and that only after that the state will see if they will save them with some heat and with little children or children going on a field trip, and their parents have barely singled out the money to pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52303	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52304	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to the corresponding register as a status register in which all legal persons dealing with this area and this activity will be found. If we want better conditions in tourism, there must be an appropriate register for both guests and legal persons involved in this activity, as well as a guest. Based on this information, we will have the right picture actually of tourism in Serbia. I'm glad some of my colleagues mentioned the town of Nis here. I always want to set an example of what's being done in that local self-government and just for a little while, just for the sake of information, I'm going to bring up some data. So, according to a statement from the Republic Statistics Office, in the city of Nis in 2018, there was an increase in the total number of tourists by 15%, with the number of domestic guests increased by 7.3% and the number of foreign tourists by 20% compared to 2017. The figures in the night category indicate an increase of 12.3% more nights achieved than in the period from January to December 2017, with the number of nights of domestic tourists increasing by 6.7% in 2018 and the number of foreign tourists increased by 18%. This growth in tourism traffic is the best indicator of the results of intensive work on the promotion of the town of Nis, in key markets, therefore, in Bulgaria, Greece, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Slovakia, Russia and Turkey, where, according to official statistics, the largest number of tourists comes from. What is particularly important for the development of the tourism economy Nis is that the number of tourists is growing not only during the summer season, when the city has the most practical things to offer, but also growing before and during the post-season, which is why the Nisa Tourist Organisation plans new digital campaigns and promotions of cultural tourism, adventure tourism, as well as local gastronomy on new markets and the full integration of quality tourist products so that the tourist offer of the city of Nisa is in line with modern demand and modern needs of tourists. I wanted to, in practice, point out that in Nis they can always have a stable partner in the field of tourism. On the other hand, government support, of course, means thanking us for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52305	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52306	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I would like to draw attention to the public, fellow Members and gentlemen of the Ministers, but there are none, there is only Mr Nedimovic, that I am deeply doubting the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to treat its regions equally, or to develop them as should, on the principle of equal regional development Here are the facts that you certainly cannot deny. I ask one of the ministers, and I don't know which one or whose law he defends anymore, but if agriculture and tourism are the most important branches of the economy, why do we want them in certain municipalities in Serbia, and most of them are empty. I will say, for example, an example of the Hotel "Mileseva" in Prepolje, which has been under bankruptcy for more than a decade. The same fate hit the "apple" hotel near the Bosko Buha Memorial complex, as well as mentioning the complex itself that is slowly and surely collapsing and there is ruins, referring to pavilions around the hotel "Pubuka", which were built in the early 1970s for brigades in charge of building the Belgrade-Bar railway. In order for the municipality to promote its beautiful destinations of untouched nature, to attract tourists to stay at those destinations as long as possible, and the municipality has achieved some profit, unfortunately, this is not possible in this case because of the lack of accommodation facilities in such a, such a tourist just comes, sees and passes. I don't just want to mention the environment I come from. The same fate of the hotel "Pubuke", "Mileseva", took place also in Baja Basta, whose owner is EPS and is located in a very attractive location on the beach of Lake Perucac. The hotel's in very good shape, but unfortunately, he doesn't work either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52307	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has professors. It's a crayon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52308	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to tell me in this proposal for a tourism law within the time limit not only as a MP, but also as a passenger, a user of tourist services. We are neither Greece nor Turkey in terms of tourism. We're Serbia. We don't have the sea, but we have a lot of other things that may not have led to the necessary level of visibility. We are in an infamous 95th place of 136 countries. That's, unfortunately, the facts. Besides agriculture, our chance is not to produce spaceships, but tourism. We need to show ourselves on the world's tourist map and justify why someone from the white world should be heading right for us. It seems to me that we ourselves have not yet recognized our tourist offer enough, what someone in the world would recognize us for, so that, if we don't already have, we can invent some lady from the međegorje who is crying, and the columns of tourists are being printed around fiction. It's not a tourist resort. It's not just a trip, it's not just a stay, fun, guide service, transfer. They are neither tourist organisations nor tourist agencies, nor tourist services. It's just the means, the tools of this activity. The goal of the journey is to experience unforgettable moments, to cheer and cheer up, to experience something that will add to his life a little spice that will make him feel better in life. When he gets back from the tourist trip, he needs to tell the story of all of us. That's why this journey has to be covered with emotion, whether it's nature or people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52309	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52310	And this is the opportunity now, at the end of the debate, to round up the continent regarding the necessary investments and projects for the development of tourism in Serbia and what has been failing for decades. The question arises, Mr. Nedimovicu, why did the government of the Republic of Serbia not come out with a concrete one, call it what you will, we propose, the Serbian Radicals here, to be a special programme, a master plan for destroyed Serbia's spas. With more than 1,000 medicinal sources with a centuries-long tradition, the developmental opportunity for Serbia's health tourism is enormous and untapped. Only Soko Banja has a really special master plan, and they even went a step further not only for health but also for recreational tourism. And what about the Korsumlij spa mentioned by counterpart Stojanovic? You know, the minister who still runs this resort, Rasim Ljajic, can't say -- who can buy that ruin for 2.5m euros. It's not about the ruins, it's about national wealth. Well, who's the one who dares to estimate what a national resource is worth? The facility is one thing, and the other is potential. Why didn't the Government of the Republic of Serbia invest the money? Here's what my colleague Despotovic said about Prepolje. You really can't get all that to count. What about Vranjska Banja? What about the Voluntary Bath at Kragujevac's, in Stragari? What about the other, who knows how many unused spas and how tourists from all over the world would come in, because they want it - to have one natural ambience, to have a good offer of accommodation, to have quality ethnic food, which we really have. We can, it was the project The Tourist Organisation of Serbia, I think "52 tastes of Serbia" that was called, so we can expand it to who knows how much more and now while this campaign is going on "See Serbia", you know, we can't just force these areas that have been developed, we have to look where and how there is potential, to develop tourism, to define and to say, so you boast to Mr. Nedimovic, and the prime minister and president of the state, to have money in the budget. Come on, here you go, so one invested dinar, a euro that you want to convert to whatever currency you want to convert it to, three times will come back. People will be hired, we will develop those parts of Serbia, and the most important is travel infrastructure. Without it, there is no development of tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52311	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. As far as I could get out I was meeting you. Thank you for understanding. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52312	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 4, we have submitted an amendment that reads - in Article 4 behind the word "tourism" - the words "in the Republic of Serbia", because the law must specify that tourism, the development of tourism, refers to the entire territory of the state. However, your argument is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision in the proposal is sufficiently precise and the Proposer considers that it should not be changed. It's totally unacceptable for us. This proposed tourism law will certainly not solve the basic problems in tourism, and this is primarily how to protect itself from flight fraud, by which criteria choose a tourist agency and why the state is not more effective in preventing machinations with arrangements because there is no 100% effective mechanism to protect against fraud. We also pointed out to you the work of the Tourist Inspectorate and that the work of the Tourist Inspectorate should certainly be improved and that it should respond and respond to the constant complaints of the citizens about the fraud in tourism, as well as to examine and prove possible criminal responsibility. You should certainly pay more attention to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52313	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Excuse me, Minister, have you called? (Branislav Nedimovic: I will later.) All right. Here you go, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group aims to define in a better and more precise way the concepts under this law. I have already spoken in previous amendments about this economic branch providing great opportunities and great perspectives. So it is clear to all of us that there are new trends in this area, and that should be used. So I appeal to the Ministry and the Government not to waste time, but to be seen to be out of this area, meaning that it gets out of this business branch maximum. We all know the fact that Serbia has two extremely large friends between two major states, two major world powers, which are Russia and China. We are not doing enough to improve tourism co-operation with these countries, and in order to make it possible first of all to open a number of airlines between the cities of those countries, the airport of Zagreb and the Belgrade airport of "Nikola Tesla" and if there is something like this, and we have some indications that this is being talked about, then believe that the number of tourists and how it has increased in relation to the existing situation. If we know China is a country with over a billion inhabitants, Russia is a huge country, and even though it's 150 million, and if we include a post-Soviet area, it's somewhere over 200 million people. Here, let's say, I appeal to the minister and I suggest that the Ministry and the Government be opened for the start of the Nis-Sankt Petersburg line and, believe me, all of these analyses are saying that this plane line and how profitable it would be to look for a map more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52315	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia may be the country with the largest number of mineral and thermal waters in Europe, preceding central and southern Serbia, but literally the whole country lies on this wealth. It is difficult to list all our resources in this area, but there are also many who are not led to the desired level of visibility, so in this context I would mention Sijarinska Banja in southern Serbia, behind Medvedje, along with the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija. It is a true gift, a reward from God, and a punishment from men. This site is in the area of geological, hydrological, meteorological and any other phenomenon, where two geysers are located within a few hundred meters, one to the soul, dimmed because of the failed exploitation of the onyx and dozens of mineral water sources, each of which is a story to itself. They differ by color and temperature and taste. This water, unfortunately, and this wealth is not recognised by the state and flows along the Banjski River further, and remains untapped, and all plastics from Banja via Leban to Leskovec could be heated. Here I would repeat the words of our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, that these spas should be redecorated, trained, and only then think about their status. I'm not a promoter of this spa, and it's not the only example of being left alone, there are examples like that, unfortunately, a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52317	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52318	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 4 following the word "tourism", we have proposed an amendment that reads "with a special reference to rural tourism". Serbia has something to brag about when it comes to the area of intact nature, and such destinations must be taken into account in every form of assistance. In order to preserve those environments that are slowly dying, and the reason for dying is clear and evident, in such areas of the poor municipality they have neither the strength nor the ability to invest without the help of the state. Locals are increasingly leaving such environments, seeking a better life outside Serbia's borders. The strategy, vision and mission remain only on paper, and until we have a plan to build Zlatibor, Kopalnik and similar urban tourist destinations, small and beautiful places remain in the shade with untouched nature and significant tourist potential, which unfortunately remains untapped. Such places have exceptional features, waiting for some new time or some new government to develop and get their place on the tourist map of Serbia, Europe and the world. If the ministers visited all parts of Serbia, they would see that there is still potential that, besides, I mentioned, Kopalnik and Zlatibor, there is a destination for tourism development, mostly rural. Don't forget, gentlemen, that the southwestern border of Serbia is not only up to Zlatibor, but it goes a little further. Why do I say that? In the 1970s, a Belgrade-Bar railway was built in Lim Valley, and the area was not neglected at that time. Why is this the case today? I believe that the overall development should not only follow the route of the highway, let's say through the Cave, which I have nothing, but the route of the Lim Valley is much more cost-effective and more sustainable, as the municipalities of the border areas of Serbia, Montenegro and BiH would have faster and better development in all economic parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52319	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52320	Thank you. Article 4 refers to the planning and development of tourism. We have suggested that after the words "tourism" we add the words "with a special reference to development in underdeveloped areas in the Republic of Serbia". This would create an obligation to implement incentive measures for tourism development to look at underdeveloped areas, as there are many in Serbia and those areas possess tourism potentials that should be developed. The south and southeast have been lagging behind other parts of Serbia for years and have been unjustly neglected by the Serbian authorities, especially when it comes to tourism, because they have something to offer in this area. The most important tourist centres in this part of Serbia – Leskovac, Pirot, Vranje and Prokuplje are rich cultural heritage, good communication with all major cities in the country and abroad, as well as traditional culinary specialties. A monument to the nature of the Devil's Varosh is located in southern Serbia. It is a rare natural phenomenon located on the Radan Mountain, near Kursumlia, in the Toplička Management District. Vranje is a town in the Pcinj County that today has many preserved monuments from the Turkish era. Among the most important are the Old Temple, Pasha's finals, which are among the most beautiful examples of Balkan-style architecture in southern Serbia. The pyrot is known for its pyrotic carpets, cheese, helmets and old crafts. It is located in the far southeast of Serbia and is characterized by architecture with visible signs of Turkish period and natural beauty. The city of Momchil is especially famous, a fortress built in the early 14th century. In southern and southeast Serbia, there are a large number of spas characterized by great healing and whose development in the vast gain would be this region, but also the whole of Serbia – Vranjska Banja, Bujanovska Banja, Niška Banja, Proto Banja, Lukovska Banja, Sijarinska Banja and Vlasin Lake, one of the most beautiful destinations in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52321	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52322	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a tourism law. I consider my amendment to be a clearer and more precise definition of the subject matter of this law, especially as it comes to a law most directly affecting every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. That's why you should have a little more hearing for all the ends of our country, especially the undeveloped and poorly populated areas of the Kursumli municipality. On the territory of the municipality of Kursumli there are three beautiful spas, but tourism there is completely destroyed. At the Kursumlij spa, they worked as high-quality catering workers known for decades for their hospitality and kindness. They're all out of work today, many young people from this beautiful neighborhood who've been preparing to work, but no one's letting them. The most beautiful and oldest of the three spas, the Kurzumli spa is now completely ruined. It's just amazing that the state can afford the luxury of such a natural treasure falling apart. Both local and state leaders have often promised to do something about reviving this spa, but things haven't moved from the dead spot. To make things worse, in some time not so long ago, the state has invested a lot in developing this spa. And just when it all came to its place, it felt like it had interfered with someone and started a reverse process. The bullet bath has been completely devastated for a short time, and today it looks a little daunting. I ask the Minister in charge - what will the Government do to resuscitate this old and beautiful spa? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-13-0.u52323	Thank you. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Also, I would like to thank all the MPs for their participation and work on this session, as well as Minister Nedimovic, Minister Ružić, Minister Ljajic and their teams on active participation. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, 14 March 2019, starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you for your attention, and I'll see you tomorrow.
