ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65319	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word has the People's Messenger, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are also well aware of how many prominent party staff have won overnight degree at Megatrend University and what kind of affairs have been dealt with in the work and business of that university, but we see now Mica Jovanovic, his owner, wants to get rid of Megatrend and sell it to someone. He informed the public that he had sold it for about 50m euros, with the obligation of the new owner to invest another 150m. However, the new owner has no more than 5,000 euros, but is making a public statement that the state is behind him. And that was a signal for me to deal with that question a little bit. I have studied the state behind Megatrend University and found that the state of Zorana Mihajlovic, vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of various things, for construction, traffic, infrastructure, etc. She's been a professor at that university since 2008. Now, maybe someone will show up with an initiative to make the state a buyer of that university. She gave me an inspiration one statement, I don't know whose, in yesterday's press, that it's best for the government to buy it, so then she doesn't have to pay one degree at a time, but she can print a monthly booter diploma and share it for free for those who want diplomas, who need diplomas for some reason. However, I would take this opportunity to ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic about another criminal affair involving Zorana Mihajlovic. This time it's a dangerous mob, a mob organization whose head is Vanja Spiljak, son of Mike Cave. You remember that he was one of the directors of Zagreb's INE in the 1980s, that he once stole an entire oil tanker in the Atlantic Ocean, more than 10,000 tons of oil, that a big affair was launched, and that Djurekovic, who wanted to go public, had to flee to Germany and began to publish some books there, to expose the affair, and then, at the federal state summit, was decided to kill Djurekovic. That was agreed by Stane Dolanc, head of all police intelligence, counterintelligence services, SFRJ presidency member and Milka Planinc, the president of the federal government. Pavle Gazi, then Croatia's interior minister, insisted that Djurekovic be kidnapped and brought alive to testify on all affairs. However, Gazi was outvoted and soon removed. There was a team of Dolanc's liquidators, including Arkan and Gishka. Germany just a while ago condemned Zdravko Mustac, who was head of the federal UDBA and Chief Dolance's listener and Josip Perkovic, who at the time was head of the Croatian UDBA, and I mean both life sentences, and now negotiates to turn it into a 30-year prison so that they can support them in Croatia. The Mika Spiljak has remained intact and is now the main supplier of NATO oil derivatives in Kosovo and the region. We have a number of companies that are holders of energy licenses to store and trade oil derivatives that use river traffic. We also had several terminals to store that fuel. It was then adopted in 2012 by the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters, which obliged all companies engaged in oil trade and oil derivatives to align their business within these members of the new law. However, Zorana Mihajlovic has prescribed special very complicated conditions for the reregistering of these companies, so so far only one firm has received the right, a monopoly, other than NIS, NIS does not count on it, only one firm, called "Mitanol" Smederevo, owned by Mike Špiljka, Vanje Špiljka. Well, well, Mike, Mika's here like a ghost, all-powerful. (President: I thank you. Let me just say two more sentences. Their goal is to destroy all domestic companies that do it. And that's what Zorana Mihajlovic does for big money. Even the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has been calling for these things to be settled, regulated, that it does not seem a great deal of damage, because most of our companies have already come into a situation that they have to stop doing business. These are domestic companies that last for a decade, two or more, and why now to give monopoly to Croatians, Croatian companies, and to choke our companies. The Serbian government must react urgently to the situation and finally arrest Zorana Mihajlovic once, bring her to court. That's enough. Em Megatrend University, a regular professor, has created monopolies here for the largest mafia organization, one of the most large in the Balkans, and has stood still in times of communism. We in Serbia do not have any mafia organization that has stood in times of communism, and in the Balkans we have this very Croatian, headed by Vanja Spiljak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65321	Thank you, Professor Seselj. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65322	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since Mike is here somewhere, as the previous speaker said, my first question is for the BIA. Are they also familiar with the progress of discovering the grave of Europe's first guerrilla, General Draž Mihajlovic? Just for reasons of reconciliation, and that the other side can lay flowers on the grave of the Supreme Commander of the Ravnog movement and in such a way that both have a place to go and pay tribute to those who sympathise as movements, liberating movements in World War II. My next question is for the authorities, the Ministry of Justice, the prosecution, the court, etc. – how far did the investigation go against, say, Marinika Tepic? That's the lady who claimed back in 2002 that Serbia had camps for the Croats... (Vojislav Seselj: You mean the Marine Coban.) ) At Marinika Tepic, as it is now signed. So, is there an investigation against Marinika Tepic or Marinika Coban, depending on how it was signed? Is there an investigation into the apartment behind Banovina in Novi Sad? It is an apartment of over 200 square meters, which was acquired while serving as the Regional Secretary for Youth and Sports. How far has the investigation come, if any, for the allocation of funds to party personnel of her party? At that time, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, as far as I remember, was before that LDP, then Jankovic, then the movement, so Zivkovic, I no longer know which parties she was not in, but is there an investigation and how far did she come about the grant of money for the Banatian Shores? It's a couple of clothed objects and two or three sticks where they're given multimillion-dollar amounts. Is there an investigation into the beginner sex project where Marinika Tepic assigned over six million dinars to her party colleague? I don't know who practically carried out this project, but was there an investigation, did anyone examine it? Under what circumstances did she, for example, fund bodybuilding clubs, athletes, what does she say? So, did these nicely shaped people give money, money, and for what reasons? The next question is: is there an investigation against Vuk Jeremic for laundering money from criminal affairs with Patrick Hoe, who was sentenced in America to years in prison? Is there an investigation against Borko Stefanovic over a settlement in the "Satellite" affair where he and Boris Tadic have paid 28.7m euros for several recordings, a few years old? Furthermore, is there an investigation against Bosko Obradovic for money laundering, i.e. for taking money from the budget for the political party and spilling over entrepreneurial shops into his private pockets? Furthermore, is the investigation being conducted against Boris Tadic over the country's high treason or because of a change in the UN resolution, which expelled Russia and China, and in the process of negotiating with the fake state of Kosovo, introduced EULEX and the EU? Also, what is the police and the prosecution doing against illegal gatherings, i.e. public gatherings that have not been reported in accordance with the law, which have been held for days, months, and for a year now in Belgrade? What will he do about Bosko Obradovic's actions that, for example, locked down the television? What's he doing against Bastac for torturing his own godfather, for re-compromising the street, for tearing out signs, etc.? So, what are the police, the D.A.'s office doing in investigations being conducted, or are they going to be against these persons that I've listed? I believe that politics and opposition action cannot hide, conceal crime. It's not an amnesty of crime, and that's why my questions, in my opinion, are very precise and I want precise answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65323	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65324	Thank you, Chairman. I was already asking the question here when the government was in connection with the advocacy of a ban on cars with inadequate eco-standards of engines, for which it was careless or at least premature statements and announcements by President Alexander Vukic, who spoke about it on a TV show. Afterwards, the media and some ministries came out with different views on the matter, and when, at the last meeting with the Prime Minister, I directly asked the question of the Minister of Ecology, I got some answer which, mildly speaking, was not satisfactory, I didn't understand it, I guess it's not clear to most citizens of the country either. In doing so, it is the thing that interests the largest number, a large number of Serbian citizens, because the majority of them have cars that, according to this announcement, would be banned, or would not be allowed to drive. So that's this standard of the Euro four, three, actually the Euro three, and the question is what is with this Euro four engine standard? So what we've heard from Mr. Trivan is just that, and on my direct question, no one's gonna take the cars. That's nice. So no one's gonna take them away. Will it be prohibited to import those cars with those engines and when? Is the technical examination going to establish, not what level of the engine, or what is the engine standard, but what is the harmfulness of these exhaust gasses produced by the particular vehicle, and therefore the measures will be taken? So there's a lot of ambiguity, and it's about most of it or, I say, the largest number of citizens in this country. So I appeal to the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Ecology, of course, above all, to the Government, but these are the competent ministries to come out, by New Year's, with a clear view on the matter, if they have it, if they don't have it, because this leaves room for speculation. No one knows if to buy cars. Importers don't know if it's going to be banned, whether it's not going to be banned. There is room for speculation and manipulation, on the one hand, and on the other hand there is confusion among ordinary citizens and potential and current users of these cars. Interestingly, by the way, my direct question has been answered by the Ministry of Traffic, a question about this, which consists of a sentence saying that the answer is not in this ministry's jurisdiction. I asked the Department of Traffic, I didn't ask the Ministry of Sports and Youth, I didn't ask, I don't know, the Ministry of Religious Affairs. So, who's in charge if it's not the Department of Traffic who's responsible for this, I say, in correlation, in communication with, I suppose, the Ministry of Ecology? So, as soon as possible, a concrete position on this matter. Will this Regulation be adopted? Will it be worth half next year or later? In any case, it is already announced that people, citizens, can count on something reliable, not to be the victim of rumors and speculation. My second question goes to the address of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Interior and concerns this affair, namely the production of marijuana near Belgrade, and on a plot of nearly 12 hectares, which turned out to be almost accidentally or almost accidentally discovered by this huge, largest marijuana production, not only in Serbia, but in the whole region, certainly in the Balkans and perhaps in Europe. There's a lot of controversy in the public and because some high-ranking officials of this government used to visit this property. Of course, Mrs. Brnabic is funny, talking to me again, said there was once a Pannonian sea, so what does that mean, that's no proof. Of course it's not evidence, but ministers could have been picking up harmful plants or picking tomatoes or radishes on some other property. There are indications of closeness with some structures of government. Anyway, it's speculation. What, therefore, did the Ministry of Agriculture give the subsidies to "Jovanjici" and whether the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Agriculture were responsible for the control of production, such a sensitive product as the industrial hemp, instead of which marijuana came on "Jovanja"? So, were there incentives for production for “Jovanjica” and were there any controls on what was produced on “Jovanja”? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65325	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65326	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to refer my question today to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, or Minister Zorani Mihajlovic. The question concerns the long-awaited Moravski Corridor and I was in the principle debate, when we discussed in the Assembly a special Law on the Moravia Corridor and pointed to the fear of the citizens of the village along the corridor, that is, the corridor that passes through the Kingdom, that is, by the West Morava, which is the villages of Sirča, Oplanić and Morava, their fear of being lifted from the bridge that connected them with their fields, on the other hand, Morava, since the first project was planned. The ministry has changed the project, and now the bridge has been planned over Morava, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank both the resolution ministry and the minister herself. Thus they are able to cultivate their fields, and their lives are eased, and their very existence in the country. Otherwise, the road that now exists through the village of Sirca was built long ago in 1919 and was made by then by the Minister of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Stevan Burmazovic, otherwise a Kralječanin, and this is a road that has never swam no matter how many times the locals fought the floods. Of course, thanks again to the locals themselves for understanding their need to keep the bridge where it was. My question today is - is it possible and is it feasible to upgrade the overpass in the extension of the bridge? The overpass would cross the highway, allowing the safest and fastest route, i.e. the fastest communication with the town of Kralje, as well as with the industrial zone Magnohr, where, otherwise, around 100 people from the village of Sirč are working at the newly opened “RVM cardboard” factory. In the industrial zone itself, it is planned to soon start working on two more factories, and this overpass will mean a lot to not only the locals of the village of Sirča, Oplanići and Popovici, which are about six – seven thousand, but also to future workers who will start working in new factories. I hope that the Ministry will find the best solution that will not violate the project of building the Moravia Corridor, which is beyond the need of not only the King, but also the whole of the Raška region, and that on the other hand it helps and facilitates our citizens who have decided to stay in the country and bring Serbian villages back to life with their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65327	I thank my colleague Yevdzic. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65328	President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People, using his right to Article 287. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to ask the question of the Minister of Energy, Mr. Antic. Serbia's strategic definition in energy is to ensure energy stability and security, as well as to meet energy needs and businesses and citizens. Besides others, energy sources for us are of great importance and natural gas as an energy of the 21st century. Taking into account environmental standards and protecting the environment, we can say that natural gas as an energy source is the most acceptable and purest. Serbia began working several years ago on a pipeline-building project that should provide sufficient amounts of natural gas from the Russian Federation and connect with other users in the region. Unfortunately, the project has stopped for a while, and is now being intensely implemented through a project called the "Turkish Stream" that is extremely current these days. To remind me, the Tuski Stream pipeline is a total length of 1,100km, stretching from Russia across the Black Sea and is intended to supply gas to both Turkey and the countries of South and Southeast Europe. Its construction will contribute to making the entire region more energy-resistant and secure. The length of the Turkish Stream route through the Republic of Serbia is 403km, making Serbia an important partner in increasing the overall energy security and stability of the entire region. In this regard, I would like to ask Minister Antić – how much is capital investment and what is the stage of realisation and what will the construction of this pipeline "Turkish Stream" mean for the economy and citizens of Serbia? I'd like to ask the Ministry of Education a second question. Lately, there's been a drop of teacher's staff from school. The reason to talk to them is that they can't take child abuse and senior-grade students anymore. Is the Ministry of Education planning something to prevent further depletion of personnel because only at my daughter's school has three teachers in the last month submitted cancellations solely for these reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65329	I thank my colleague. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here's a colleague of Birmanci's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65330	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, I refer my first question to the prosecution, but also to all judicial authorities, and the question is very simple – what is the prosecution, what have the judicial authorities done against those who are targeting the president, who are drawing targets on the president, who are disturbing the public and who are day by day strengthening tensions and strengthening the pressures on President Aleksandr Vukic? The attack on the president, no matter what his name is, and his name is Aleksandar Vukic because they wanted Serbian citizens to do so, the attack on Serbia's president against all citizens and all those who support but also those who do not support the president. No one has the right to attack legitimately in any name in the first round with 55% of the elected president's vote. What's alarming is that these pressures don't stop and repeat from day to day. The question is very simple – what is the prosecution, what are the judicial authorities doing in accordance with the law to stop it once and for all? My second question is also addressed to the prosecutor's office and to all judicial authorities, and it concerns one part of the parliamentary benches that are empty, or 377 days that part of the opposition MPs do not come to the National Assembly. There's a reasonable doubt that someone's threatening them, that they're being blackmailed and threatened. I call upon these messengers to be courageous, to be alarming, and to say who is the one who is threatening them and who is not allowed to enter the congregation hall, and it is known, if we are witnesses, and we are witnesses that the president of the municipality, in the central city municipality, is strangling his godfather, tying him up, beating him, and asking for all the money that is the fruit of bribery and corruption to end in his pockets. If they are willing to work in the Municipality of Stari Grad, they are certainly ready to work both in the National Assembly and in their business, and as such they are certainly putting pressure on some of the opposition MPs who simply cannot enter the Assembly Halls and do work for whom they have been proposed and for whom they have received a number of votes to end up in this hall of the Republic of Serbia. My third question concerns the judiciary, which is referred directly to the Supreme Court – why and how did the mayor of Zelenovic, who spent five million euros in 2015 in addition to the budgets provided for in the items, proved and confirmed by the findings of the DRI, condemned by the decision of the Supreme Court in Sapac, after the decision of the Court of Appeal was reinstated, why did Mayor Zelenovic still not get the verdict he deserves? What will be the verdict? What will the Supreme Court judge? We do not engage in it. Let them decide, but we're looking for a decision as soon as possible. The citizens of Sapca, but also Serbian citizens deserve information and deserve the verdict that Zelenovic must be given. At the same time, the question is – why? When it was found, that someone had abused five million euros, and this someone was Mayor Zelenovic, was not arrested and why was he allowed to influence witnesses, judges, and court craftsmen, and all those involved in the case of never greater theft? Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic is the only convicted mayor in the Republic of Serbia. My last question concerns judicial authorities, and the issue is related to a case that took place at the JKP in Šapec. The truck driver allowed more people to sit in the cab of the PCP truck than is allowed. The truck turned out to be a JKP worker, and suspicions were established that both the mayor and the director of the AKP had ordered, threatened the driver and all those present to make false statements that the event had not occurred. Did the MUP take all the necessary actions, did the prosecution, based on the findings of the MUP, bring charges against those responsible for such catastrophic behaviour in the JKP in Capac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65331	I thank my colleague Birmanchevic. We continue to work and move on to the Search on details of the 2nd item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Siniš Mali, Minister of Finance, Zoran Đorđević, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy, Jelena Tanasković and Slavica Savičić, State Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Aleksandar Gajović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Darko Komnenic and Dr Dragan Demirović, Deputy Minister of Finance, Zoran Milošević and Sasa Trandafilović, Deputy Minister of Culture and Information, Darko Komnenic and Dr Dragan Demirović, Deputy Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance and Sasa Transafilović, Executive of Finance and Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs to Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, Marijan Rističević, Djordje Komlenski, Milija Miletic, Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Vladimir Đurić, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People agree to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours today, so for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Comrade Komlensky, before we begin our work, we'll wait for the ministers to join us and then we'll continue. We're going back to work. So the First Amendment with the correction was filed by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here's my colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65332	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance for one simple reason, because with these amendments and additions, we are introducing a brand new term, a new concept which the current legal practice does not know, and this is a newly-inhabited obligor. In these amendments and additions, Article 6 is not covered by the definition of concepts and since it is a new concept and a new category which so far does not have its own fixed concept of what constitutes the concept of a newly established taxpayer, I have found it appropriate, of course, that, in accordance with the Income Tax Act, I propose a supplement, by adding new views that would clearly and precisely define this concept. As you have done in Article 45ð where the notion of qualified newly employed in attitudes has been defined quite precisely, my opinion is that it would be an obligation to do so in this law, whether through these very views that I have suggested or in any other way, it is completely irrelevant, but the concept of a newly-inhabited obligor is very clear and precisely defined. Reference only to some other law, in situations like this is not enough. It can cause serious misunderstandings in future application. That's what I'm telling you from the corner of the lawyer, the practical one. It is clear to me that this can be challenging unless there is a more precise definition, a misunderstanding in some future administrative or judicial proceedings, and of course it is neither an interest nor a wish for you as a promoter, nor us as MPs. So whether this amendment or any other way to clearly specify this, I think it's absolutely necessary, regardless of these other facts that I've mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65333	I thank my colleague Komlenski. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65334	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, won the SNS-backed list in the elections for the Council of Local Communities on Sunday 1 December, out of 56 councils in our city, in 55 local communities, and won two out of five mandates in 56. The number of mandates in all 56 local communities is 312, of which the candidates supported by the SNS won 303 seats, which is 97.12%. This gave the citizens of Loznica absolute confidence in the list of SNS-supported candidates, which is the recognition of the work so far and the best confirmation of the proper and responsible SNS-led policy, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. It is a significant contribution to building a democratic society and further strengthening the local self-government on the way to decentralisation, but also to providing opportunities for new young people in times of faster economic and overall recovery both Loznice and Serbia in general. This result of 97.12% of local community seats says we have the best and strongest President Aleksandr Vukic, and also the best mayor Vido Petrovic, who enjoy the greatest support in the broad masses of Podrinj and the whole of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65335	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65336	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, above all I would like to say that the reasons for the adoption of this law are aimed at creating conditions for implementing business environment reform, creating conditions for new employment, for inflows of investments, but also for discharging economic operators, by setting criteria for more favourable innovation. New aids are being introduced based on the payment of contributions, existing reliefs are also being extended, a fiscal discharge of revenues is proposed based on work to reduce the rate of contribution to compulsory social security. In particular, a new relief is being introduced with the aim of hiring newly-inhabited bonds in Serbia for which there is a need on the labour market, as persons with certain expertise. This means that the basis of the contribution for employees and employers will be earnings that have been reduced by 70%. When it comes to new incentives to encourage employment, it is proposed, for newly established companies that carry out innovative work, in the form of a release from payment of contributions based on the earnings of founders who are employed in these companies. Also, there will be a relief for employers who establish a working relationship with qualified unemployed persons in the form of exemptions from paying PIO contributions based on the earnings of that qualified unemployed person. So, because of these solutions, which will, above all, help in employment, which will stimulate both employers and employees, and persons who are waiting for employment, I think we should support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65337	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to a law relating to contributions to mandatory social security. My amendment is a legal and technical character, because in Article 1(2), the word "Serbia" is left out. So, only the Republic stands, and it does not stand next to the Republic of Serbia, the name Serbia, and I think that is enough reason that the government should adopt this amendment. Especially when it comes to a very serious law on contributions to social and disability insurance, and tomorrow, God forbid, someone in a situation can complain, and you see how it is, what it is today, to appeal to the court in Strasbourg, etc., if he is unhappy with something and that is why I believe that my amendment was to be adopted by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65339	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65340	You are the Prime Minister, and all of you ministers in the public and all of these laws that go along with the budget, have announced as something more pompous that you will help employees, that they will feel better by applying these laws, etc. Among other things, you claimed that this Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance would also allow for an increase in profits. That's simply not true, because you wrote it in an explanation. It is true that the contribution rates from 26% are reduced to 25.5%. It is a small one, but you did not recommend the employers so much that they would increase the salaries at least for that amount, but you predicted that the amount saved by employers on behalf of the contribution could be invested in further production. You say that this is aimed at existing fiscal incentives and you have also said that the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to ensure conditions for implementing comprehensive reforms, business environments, legal assumptions for the inflow of investment, employment, economic growth, etc. First of all, this percentage is really small. Secondly, it would be good to stop misleading the public with a story about the inflow of investments, because all these foreigners who come to Serbia are not investors, but are the plants of various large companies that come here because they receive 10,000 euros per job. That's what we need to know in public and that this law, as well as the others that we're going to talk about today and the next days, and that we've already talked about, are all actually like that basic Labour Act, are all in the interest of protecting employers, above all those you bring for serious budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65341	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65342	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The proposal for a bill was amended to Article 44. The law on contributions to compulsory social security and proposed a reduction in the rate of contribution by 0.5% for compulsory pension and disability insurance. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44 of the basic law, which we have proposed that the rates at which the contributions are charged and paid, in addition to the contributions to the PIO, be reduced for compulsory health insurance as well as for unemployment insurance. Our position is, and we have suggested and asked for this amendment, is that everything should be reduced, not just those rates that apply to the PIO. In particular, it would mean that the employer pays 11.5% contributions and thus ensures a lower burden on the incomes made by workers on the basis of work, but also a reduction in operating costs for employers. By abolishing the part of the contribution, i.e. the benefit of reduced taxation, the employer and the employee themselves could also have, if these funds were properly deployed and if there were no abuses, this could be used to increase wages. In this case, the reduction in the rate of contribution leaves room for the employer's disbursement and can contribute to the general benefit that both employer and employee benefit, because if an employee gets a higher salary, the employer gets a more satisfied worker, which directly affects productivity growth itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65343	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65344	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about changing the rate of contribution for PIO and that's how it decreases by 0.5%. This means that the rate of contribution for PIO decreases from 26% to 25.5%. But this solution refers to the rate of contribution to the employer's burden, so the rate for the PIO paid by the employer for its earnings is 11.5 instead of 12%. In this way, less fiscal burden will be ensured for income generated by natural persons on the basis of work, but also for the reduction of operating costs for employers. With this in mind, we can talk about the state's support in employment, savings for employers will be great, and this will allow for the creation of new jobs, thus continuing to invest in production. Unemployment is now at a historic minimum, we have to mention, below 10%, exactly 9.5%, and youth unemployment is halved. We see that this will work in the future and, of course, support for the economy in this way, we strive for the best environment that will involve the development of the economy, new jobs, of course, a better standard of living for our constructions, more opportunities for choosing where to work, especially young people, where to work, more investment and what is also important to invest in knowledge and education. Proposals that each person in his work will contribute to everything I've talked about should be supported. In addition to this, the information we could hear yesterday from Minister Cynthia Mali, which is that the economic activity in the third quarter of this year has seen huge growth, so Serbia and Hungary now share the first place in Europe at a rate of 4.8%. If we look at the work, GDP growth has been recorded in the area of construction, information and communication, in the area of trade large and small, traffic etc. Thanks to the suggestions that are before us today, which we are discussing in particular, the economy will be more relaxed and therefore I believe that they should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65345	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65346	Dear Vice-President, certainly a 0.5% reduction in contributions to PIO insurance is very important, as it will encourage new employment, which is one of the priorities and tasks of both the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, those of the Alliance for Serbia daily produce affairs with lies, fictions and commit various types of incursions to public institutions, businesses and sometimes state institutions. Here's the latest thing is that the representative of the Alliance for Serbia Bosko Obradovic, otherwise the electric rabbit Dragan Djilas, blocked with his supporters the entrance of the Public Service, with the task of allowing him and Borko Stefanovic to visit Dnevnik 2. It is another one of a series of incursions, of 22 incursions and Boško Obradovic's outbursts in the last year. Also, their perjanica, called journalist Snezana Mališić, who is more a political worker than a journalist, said on December 1st 2019 in "The impression of Sunday" that Serbia is a madhouse and that the key to this asylum is held by one man, finished quote. It accused all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of being crazy and the state of madness. Dear People's MPs, it's an honor to the president of the Association of Journalists of Serbia for reacting and recommending to Mrs Malisic to change her profession, but Olja Beqkovic, astounded by the statement, remained surprised, but there is no. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65347	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65348	What the SRS insists on is to explain to the public what the ultimate effect of reducing these contributions is on the employer and on those who are paying for PIO. Here they are dealing with the fact that a reduction in taxes and contributions will save 13.5 billion dinars at all. In doing so, no one has mentioned that the biggest employer here is the state. It's the state that hires the most. Of these 13 billion savings, the state will somehow be relieved of three billion. But there is another solution for saving, i.e. liberating and encouraging production, which is – if it had been approached by a more balanced wage increase in the public sector, then the state would have at its disposal 20 billion budgets that could be defined for investment and fostering the economy. Anyway, as one of the colleagues here always wants to point out, that 20 is larger than 13, that's the general known fact, it's a simple mathematical correlation and it's perfectly normal. When you calculate, you'll see that bigger savings would have been to approach someone, when we say a more realistic increase, then that's consistent with the increase in gross social product, or the real growth of the economy. It's all about amendments to the SRS, which are about contributions to pension and disability.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65349	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65350	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, it is evident that the government of the Republic of Serbia has done much at the job of hiring people in Serbia over the past seven years and that there have been 300,000 new workers employed, over 200 factories opened. It is evident that much has been done in reforms in Serbia and that everything that has been done when it comes to our finances has been well done, so I believe that the measures proposed this time will also give its effects by increasing profits or by increasing jobs. What I want to say to Serbian citizens who do not use the Twitter social network yesterday, Dragan Djilas wrote that Sinisa Mali and Nebojsa Stefanovic no longer exist, only someone needs to tell them, we will see who they will pull with them. It was yesterday, dealing with serious, too serious affairs, Dragan Djilas wrote on "Twitter" and of course numerous comments and spits, the abominations came at the expense of these two ministers of Sinishi Mali and Nebojja Stefanovic and it is a scandal. I call on the competent institutions to finally respond to the fact that they are finally responding, because here we see that Serbian citizens are also going to the streets across Serbia to support Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to support the government of the Republic of Serbia in the great work they are doing, and above all to support the president who is exposed to abnormal threats. Every day, there is no headline in pro-positional Gilas media not to call for the murder of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Here, it is now said that neither Sinisa Mali nor Nebojsa Stefanovic exist anymore. How much longer? As long as we're on kiosks, on traffickers in Serbia, we're gonna find headlines, so here's the tweets where Dragan Gilas threatens murders, disappearances, beatings, rapes, hangings, testing, what's not? I call upon both the prosecution and other competent institutions to respond, to stop this madness. We have a place where politicians are elected, where the government, where the president is elected, is elected. The elections will be in March or April of the month, each will have the opportunity to declare themselves, but I am sure that Serbia cannot and will not support this kind of political action, not to sit at work for almost a year, counterpart Markovic follows it precisely, almost a year does not come to work, the only thing they do is tweet, these are threats to members of the Aleksandr Vukic family, the president himself, drawing targets at the head. In the end, I expect the whole of Serbia, which is against them, to draw one big target at the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65351	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65352	In addition to the right to earn money and the right to pension insurance, social security is also one of the essential elements of each employee. What you have proposed in Article 4 or, earlier, the current law of Article 45, it is a good idea to extend the time limit for subsidising the employer's contribution to compulsory social security from 31.12.2019 to 31.12.2020, it goes in favour of employers. Thus, one more serious basis is created for increasing the number of employees. The most important thing is that the scope is as large as possible, that we do not have much of that grey influence on contributions. But this reduction that you suggested by 1%, in absolute terms, you said it was about 13 billion, that's a lot, I think there's room, that there could be even more increase, and then in that case, employers would create probably both the desire and the need to hire as many workers as possible. We intervened here, simply in a technical sense to fix and make these provisions of this bill clearer, and you did not accept it, that is, your manner, it is not surprising to us, we have suggested that the forms be prescribed by the ministry, not by the minister in charge of finance. This could have been accepted and I think that in that case it would have been a much clearer procedure for the way the tax refund is done, that is, the contribution to this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65353	Thank you, colleague Perich. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65354	When this law was passed, employers even thought, Mr. Minister, that they would get in the real life of this relief and that what was written could be implemented in practice. However, the experiences of many, and above all entrepreneurs for certain occupations that have applied for these subsidies by hiring workers through the National Employment Service, are not good in the most part, for the simple reason that you yourself are contradictory here. In this law you force the National Employment Service, and yesterday you said that work through the agency is a safe job for many profile jobs. What happens when someone absolutely wants to hire, some employer, through the National Employment Service, and knows they're going to get that refund, or that subsidy? It is required that within the time limit prescribed by the law, however, the Labour Law foresees circumstances under which a working relationship can be broken down. Thus, this person will either return these subsidies, so he has no right to return contributions, or he has to find the same employee profile and hire him and that period to pass from 24 months. On the other hand, the announcement that over the next five years the contributions to compulsory social security will be reduced by as much as 16% is not adequately explained by the minister through possible savings that are due to take place. Everything we Serbian radicals have proposed in a way that we can transfer the budget, he did not accept, or you from the government, and don't then deceive employers that a miracle will happen and that they get no relief when they only reduce these 0.75 percentage points that go to the employer's burden for unemployment. Everything else is really hard to come by. It may be for these foreign companies of yours that you bring to Serbia, and you promise them first, that they will get that type of relief and receive 10,000-euro subsidies. That's why domestic economy is going down, and that's why domestic employers are in a growing problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65355	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 6th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment with correction was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, I hope that you have finally come to the data that I have been asking you for days, first of all, to answer me for every single year how much savings the state has achieved by seizing and reducing pension pensioners in an anti-constitutional way. You've spoken several times, and you keep saying that pensioners have borne the greatest burden of fiscal stabilisation and reform, but you keep refusing to say what that amount is. You are not only obliged to return it, but you are obliged to answer all questions to the MPs, and you are obliged to give us information. The very fact that you keep refusing to answer and hiding these amounts is how dishonest you are. You're saying that Serbia is the champion of the world by investment, and here, Mr. Minister, not only to criticize you, here to commend you, we've been informed by the media that a new investment of 206.1m euros, 56.1m for the purchase of Megatrend and another 150m euros in investment has arrived in Serbia. It is, I will agree, certainly because of this favourable climate created by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and a significant contribution to the formation of this and such Megatrend of the University, Zorana Mihajlovic, who has been there for many years. We know that there have always been a lot of people in power and close government teaching at that university, and it is clear that this is one of the basic reasons why this university has become what it is today. Now I would ask you to further explain to us, Mr. Djordjevic, what is the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this, and do you continue to support such investments as are coming to Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65357	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65358	There is no issue that can force the minister to comment, regardless of what is involved in his colleague and her great contribution to this investment, and that should be highlighted. Why hide its intellectual contribution and in any case visible when it comes to the construction of highways? She found a formula where she had already announced in advance that the construction costs of the highway would be increased multiple. The highway hasn't even started. Then she's helped by the government, I'm surprised that you ministers don't solidify now when it comes to Megatrend, but the President of the Government helps her when he says that along that highway that we're asking why it's so expensive and that it's also a digital corridor. What kind of corridor is digital, how much does it cost, what would an ordinary man say, when it's worth over 300 million euros? From what is this digital corridor, and what does that mean to increase the price? We, the Serbian radicals, when it comes to this concrete legislative proposal we have said and we claim that you could go with a larger reduction in total contributions and taxes, you reduced the total from 62 to 61, and you could have freely reduced to 60%, and this is the importance of a shift, and this would have been more significant. You, Minister, or Government, have explained to us that it is not yet the time to do so because it would require much greater separation from the state, and you are not in favour of a dinar, or for the euro, or for any other currency, when it comes to paying foreign investors. Here you waste money still to show or prove how successful you are in foreign investment, putting under the rug a peeled truth that these foreign investors have everything here, from country, objects to labour. When it comes to savings, we remind you again that it has been more rationally handled when it comes to salary increases. If at some point you might have thought that, within that financial structure, you would at least be making up for the damage that has been done to the pensioners, maybe the Serbian radicals would have had a greater understanding of all these government moves. Here we suggest that the application of this law be in 90 days, but you insist on saying no, but 120 days. Imagine the explanation, ladies and gentlemen? He says it takes 120 days to make sublegal acts. So it's not enough 90 days, along with all the expertise, abilities, as you claim, of these current governments, but you need another 30 days. Just so he doesn't understand, let alone understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65359	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savic, Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Miljan Damjanović, Zoran Despotović, Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović and Marijan Risticevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65360	These amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I think they're 17 or 18 times. This really speaks of how bad the law is and how inapplicable it is. Every time you make something worse compared to something you epochally announced, like now digitisation, and then in the era of digitisation, which is the basis of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you predict that if someone has a need to request a refund of more or less paid contributions to pension and disability insurance, that taxpayer should, in addition to that request, submit his solution to the body they address. It's simply amazing that it bears a solution to the body that has made it. So even if we weren't in this era of digitisation, where the highway is digitized, it wouldn't be necessary to submit a solution, but on one click it could be determined that the taxpayer has a solution, how much it takes to return these wrong or more contributions paid to him. You're changing some laws or everything, for God's sakes, that's because it's common that in this period when you adopt a budget something changes and in laws like this, and then you do it that way, and the tax administration is a disaster. The tax administration is a state in the country. We tell that to all ministers. Even Minister Sinisha Mali said he knew it and that he would do anything to stop it, but nothing changed there. Look at any other authority that needs to get some information from the IRS, there's no way they're getting it, because the IRS can't be affected by any laws or obligations. They're doing their job. Their solutions wait seven, eight, nine months. People still pay taxes visibly in the name of something he paid last year. Indeed an incredibly bad organization, a poor functioning of the tax administration, and this law has made nothing better in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65361	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65362	First of all, the problem is for, it's mostly not enterprises, but entrepreneurs who are flat-rate tax collectors and who are not in the VAT system, the date when they get the tax base, or finally the solution, and then the refund of funds for more paid contributions doesn't go so fast. Even sometimes at the end of the calendar or it's transferred to the next calendar year, because if you're a cobbler, you're going to get an indicative of what it is. I think it's at a minimum price for every employee, including the owner of an enterprise store, about 18,000 dinars. However, if you have made more payments until the final reckoning, then only later, by rewriting, the tax administration will provide you with a real solution. There's another problem, Mr. Minister. Let's just say that with the best intention of one employer hiring a person who was minimum six months at the National Employment Service and that someone canceling that contract before the end of which he is employed, different interpreters, believe me, individual tax administrations or branches in Serbia are now the employer's status what to do next. He may not, again, go back to what I was talking about, find such a face, and even if he finds it, the question is whether he'll get it now, calculating, or referring to the Ministry of Finance, and they're sending that bill back to you, so it's back to the tax administration, and it's one chain wheel, so that many give up and don't even engage in such a thing, that they're looking for that kind of refund money or that they're taking any kind of subsidy from the state. What you give to big foreign companies, so-called New investors, they're safe, absolutely. They get much bigger money, huge money. It's an average of 7,000 euros, and it even goes to 11,000. They are in a much more privileged position than domestic employers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65363	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65364	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3. The draft law has been amended by Article 25 of the current law, and we believe that this article should not be changed in the way you have proposed it, because these changes essentially change nothing in an existing member who is more comprehensive in any case. You're saying that the proposed changes are to combat the grey economy more effectively, and we Serbian radicals are for as effective as possible in curbing the gray economy and we're programmeically in favour of that, as well as eliminating the work on black, suppressing and so on. We believe that, if you really want to take this seriously and solve the problem of the gray economy, that they are neural points of production and customs and that these are basic sources, as well as working on black. In addition to working on black, it is highly represented and the phenomenon that employers do not pay the full amount of earnings to the worker, but is paid so-called. Minimal, while the rest of the profits are put on hand. This is not only a grey economy, it is also a denial of income to both the budget and the PIO and the rest, and it is automatically a smaller basis for contributions, so it also reduces the pension internship that is in the situation in which it is located and because of the threat of cancellation is forced to remain silent. That's what can certainly be eradicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65365	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65366	Thank you, Chairman. I think we should keep Article 3. It's a proposal, since I can see that it's been proposed to delete it. The proposed solution, other than business premises, includes a business space in which something is stored or where a particular activity is carried out. It is specifically stated that the activity must be reported to the tax administration and that is what is additional to the amendments and additions, i.e. the amendment and supplemental proposal. If we were to delete this Article 3, there would be no amendment and no addition, and Article 25 would remain valid as it is now. On the other hand, I think it's good to step up and expand the control of those who carry out the law of legal action. If this is another way to fight the grey economy, which is the aim of the Serbian government, this change should be supported. We remember that in 2017 and 2018 the Serbian Government declared the years of fighting the grey economy and it is good that it continues through these proposals that are before us today. In 2017, for example, tax exemption was introduced for beginners in business for the first year of work. Then we had that award game "Take the Account and Win," when the state, economy and citizens, all together, worked to fix the tax culture. We had the results of inspections that recorded major successes in terms of confiscation of goods that are on the gray market. In 2018, for example, the fiscal system has been improved, the electronic system for reporting and payment of taxes and contributions has been improved, stronger control of flows in the gray zone has been established. For all things, I suggest we continue in the spirit of fighting the gray economy by adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65367	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65368	Article 4 of this Bill refers to Article 26 of the basic tax code and to the tax administration. He's talking about assigning PIB to taxpayers. It was certainly necessary to approach amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, but based on the monitoring of tax bonds, the tax administration reform has entered and reduced the number of branches from 76 to 36. And now that I'm telling you, the one who's not in progress doesn't mean much to him. A large number of small places, where taxpayers exist, there are legal and natural persons who exercise their rights through tax administrations, they have significant problems. There are a number of workers who have not been transferred to the centres, but have remained in local self-governments, but they do not have access to certain information that is relevant to the citizens of Serbia, or to the citizens of those places, and are now much longer awaiting the return of funds that the state is subsidising to them. Minister, this is important to you, probably. The policy run by the Ministry of Labour and Employment is here in front of these, I would say, practical things that need to be resolved by the tax administration, and it is waiting even a few months to recover the subsidized funds to be received by the employer. That's one thing. On the other hand, in order to get confirmation that they have settled their tax obligations, that they do not owe, that they can be employers, they can be natural persons, sometimes close to 100 km from the place of residence to where they can get that certificate, or go to the tax administration, which special organisations have created. It came out, like, to meet former employees and did not significantly reduce the number of employees in the tax administration, they remained in the places where they lived, but they did not benefit. It's not good for them either, because they're not doing their job, and it's not good for the IRS either. The tax administration should be seen as a vacuum cleaner for sucking money into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it must have its own control, it must have its own measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65369	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a Tax Procedure Act and a Tax Administration. In my amendment, I asked for the removal of the said member. It is understood that legal persons, as well as entrepreneurs, represent economic operators, and for this reason I felt that the proposed amendment, as proposed in the law, is absolutely unnecessary, because it should remain the way it is. However, the government felt otherwise, and in an explanation that the government stated that my amendment was being rejected, it said, for reasons that it was necessary to specify some things. I absolutely have nothing against it, even on the contrary, all things should be specified, but if that is the case, if the draft laws written by this government are so precise and clear, then what is the number of amendments written by representatives, or MPs of the ruling majority? Look at the list of amendments, and you'll see for yourself that it really is. So, this amendment I suggested, I think we should adopt. If it is a matter of precision, such as the reason for the refusal of amendments, in my previous amendment which I have explained to the previous law, I was just talking about precision, however, the government has not accepted this amendment, which in itself says that the Government is only formally reviewing the amendments, and has no intention of adopting amendments to opposition parties, regardless of what their essence is, whether they contribute or do not contribute to improving the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65371	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65372	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 of this proposal on the amendment and additions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration before the SRS, where I have requested the removal of this member with our explanation that the introduction of a tax act through the tax administration portal cannot be an obligation of the taxpayer. The delivery of e-mails must be an obligation of the Tax Administration and this is already regulated in Article 36 of the existing law. As my colleague, Verica Radeta, the Tax Administration and Tax Policy, said, is one of the most disorganised services in the country. It is true that this proposal improves communication between taxpayers in several ways. It will be, truth be, less traffic on the counters, less reporting, less checking out, demands, submissions, more electronics. So, in any case, this tax procedure is going to be a little shortened. But we don't think that electronics can replace something that's conscious, in the habit of our people, because consciousness can't monitor electronics, because the level of consciousness and tax cultures differ greatly. I consider it significant, but not sufficient measures, that the FIB cannot be awarded to an undertaking with a maturity but unsettled public income obligations, as well as a measure to ensure tax collection through a possible ban on the availability of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65373	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65374	Thank you, Chairman. According to the amendment, because I had one amendment, and since I was with Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, with Foreign Minister, I couldn't talk about the amendment. I would like to say something now, which I have suggested, and it is about the release of a part of mandatory taxes and contributions for our employers who would open their businesses in municipalities that are devastated, the fourth group of underdevelopment. In the context of this amendment, I have proposed that those employers who open jobs for workers of that part of the gross amount be freed up to 80% of the mandatory taxes and contributions, and that most of that exemption be returned through the salary of workers, that the workers in our municipalities have a higher salary, that the salary be, as they say, appropriate to life and that those municipalities come out of the fourth group of underdevelopment and that these municipalities be municipalities where they can be easier and better to live. My proposal was that amendment. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues, especially who will vote in favour of this amendment, and I also think that the need is great for all of us here in the Assembly, and also in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to provide stronger financial support through such stimulating measures for new jobs. Freeing these mandatory taxes and contributions, believe me, people, if we don't do it for the next ten years in these municipalities, there will be very few people and even fewer workers. Once again, I am sure it will be appreciated, because the president of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, has put an accent on these things. I, as president of the United Peasants' Party and a man living in southeastern Serbia, would love that, and many people who live there, who work there, would like to provide them with better living conditions through such reliefs and with greater funding of such areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65375	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65376	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration of the amendments to the SRS referred to Article 9. The bill, because we asked to be deleted, on the grounds that a ban on the availability of money can only be established by a competent court. Since its adoption in 2002, this law has survived a series of amendments, groomings, changes, and additions. One logical question arises – with so many changes, how operational is this law for its purpose? The question is: does the ongoing innovation of this law lead to the simplification of the tax procedure and the improvement of electronic communication between the competent tax authorities and citizens of the Republic of Serbia or more specifically the taxpayers? The process of further improving electronic communication between participants in the tax procedure can be interpreted as a shift forward, but how will the proposal for a solution to prevent taxpayers from stockpiling or placing goods and performing activity in premises and premises outside the control of tax authorities? The answer to this question in this bill is not seen, but time and practice will show their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65377	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65378	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, taxpayer - a ban on money. A provision that should apply to everyone. But let's just say that every agricultural land that goes beyond six, now I think eight million dinars, must have a PIB - tax number. But, look at the wonders, I keep a document here on N1 television. Here, here, look at the head. The N1 TV is also used here with "Si-En-En", very easy and visible. The signator of this document is a legal representative, that's one of the drug lords, Bakim Ulaja, for 249,000 euros. Here's that document right here. There's a legal representative here, along with a counsellor, Baskim Ulai, a drug lord, who's being chased by the UN for money laundering, the leader of the tropoic mafia. Now, imagine this one, our domestic mafia. N1 television doesn't have a PIB. The agricultural holdings have a PIB, the shoemaker has a PIB, the gearer has a PIB, any craftsman, the caterer has a PIB, lawyers have a PIB, anyone who does any service has a PIB. N1 television doesn't have a PIB. I ask you, how can we forbid them from having money when they don't have a PIB? But, behold, N1 television is not registered in the APR, it is not registered as a media service provider at REM, which all domestic TV channels are. They're supposed to be Luxembourg television, which re-emissions the program here, so what it shows in Luxembourg, which broadcasts in Luxembourg, their viewers, re-emitting it here. That's how they talk, although it's a lie, because the Luxembourg regulator says they don't broadcast the program there. They're just fictitiously registered, but there's no broadcast program. There's supposed to be re-emissions here. They don't pay taxes there, because they make income here, and they don't pay taxes here because they're not registered. But, look at the wonders, they wrote down that they have a PIB. Not to read the number, I don't know if it's confidential or not, if it's allowed or not, but mostly, by checking that it's not a PIB N1 television, that it's a PIB firm called "Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade." Now I ask you, they claim to be operating under the "Adrie News d.o.o.", now I ask you, how can a television company, one firm, a legal person registered in Luxembourg, do business with a domestic company PIB? It's a serious tax offense for me. I think the tax authorities should take some steps towards this legal person, not because I don't like their program, let them broadcast whatever they want, but let them register in the APR, register with REM, let them get out that the N1 television has a home number and a PIB. Here they use their email address, writes nice info N1 etc., and all the other data is "Adria News". So that's one scam that costs millions. Why are they doing this? Of course, to avoid tax obligations here. But that's not all. The N1 TV is part of the SBB and United Group. So these are mutually connected faces. Then the subscription paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is pumped by N1 and Nova S and Sports clubs paying for allegedly re-emissioning, which is not available. That's how they pump money in Luxembourg. You don't pay taxes there, because they don't do any work there, they're just fictitiously registered, and here they're used by the name of another company, the data of another company, etc. It's impossible for me... Is the legal face "Adria News"? Even if it were the founder of N1 television, it would have to be "Adria News" on TV's head, or the newly created legal face would have to have a new PIB. If the company starts another company, that other firm has to have a tax number. This is N1 television, not only isn't recasting the program, not only is it cheating on viewers, not only isn't paying taxes, it's not just making wild commercials, it's using forgeries, other people's home numbers, somebody's tax numbers. I call on tax authorities to try N1 television to ban the use of money, transfer, etc. It's impossible, because they don't have it. They're used to data from another company. You can't have a company that's not an emitter serving as a basis for one side of television and it has to get in the way. Are tax authorities going to get into this because they're going to raise a shit about the freedom of the media here, etc? I repeat again, let N1 broadcast whatever it wants, the program whenever it wants, but let it register, let it have a tax number and pay taxes to the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65379	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65380	It is evident that the procedures of the tax administration and tax inspections have achieved the desired effect over the last few years, which is that the budget is becoming more and more full and is being introduced in a way slowly discipline in terms of tax obligations and in terms of taxpayers. What is a painful point for all of us is that there is no equality or equality when it comes to taxpayers and their obligations to reconcile taxes. We are considering a law here that defines, among other things, that all goods the taxpayer has to be made aware of the tax inspection. On the other hand, we have examples, like this one, where huge funds are being pumped from this country, taken from the pockets of Serbian citizens, and there is no registration, there is no PIB to which it could possibly be called to pay taxes and certain obligations that these companies have. We also heard about the oil trade, and then it would come down, simplistically looking, the state has stepped up the measures, conditionally said, according to those medium and smaller taxpayers, and those who make huge benefits, huge profits, not that they don't pay taxes as much as they traffic and how adequate their turnover is, but they don't pay it at all, and they don't have any obligations. It's not a newspaper when it comes to the media sphere. For a long time there were these tycoons who got rich overnight, and they used this kind of means. They had these offshore companies, what they didn't do, how everything and how they didn't bend over to damage this country. We Serbian radicals have given support for all of what the government proposes when it comes to tax obligations, when it comes to the functioning of tax inspection and tax administrations. There should also be a clear picture here when it comes to the functioning of tax inspection and tax administrations. There's an acute problem, and that's the problem with the personnel. It's not enough personnel to make it even more effective to collect taxes, to make the budget as best and as full as possible. So, in this sense, the SRS has submitted all these amendments, to be precise and to be precise and how, in line with what is ultimately the government's intensity to keep the budget as full as possible and that the greater the number of taxpayers settle their obligations, regardless of the state of their consciousness or their discipline when it comes to paying taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65381	Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65382	This article refers to Article 178 of the existing law and speaks of certain penalties being punished by offenders who provide the wrong information in filling out income management forms, and that, of course, is not disputed. Each natural and legal person must provide precise information in order to calculate the tax base and to be able to charge the tax. Now, as it works in the state of Serbia, it's a special issue, and I've repeatedly told the finance minister, including the tax administration, that tax officials and the administration have to push a little bit out of the office, they have to go around the field because illogical things are happening. Now we're talking about physical persons, say, property taxes. Imagine there's a building that has 17 apartments, for example, and in that building five people pay taxes, five families pay taxes. You have about that state in the country of Serbia. Is it possible that someone who's sitting in front of a computer doesn't notice that, say, taxes are paid by a family from apartment number one, then nine, then 12, then 17? I guess they should notice that your apartments are not in the air anymore, but that they should go to the field, knock on every door and say, well, what's happened so far, here, fill out the tax returns, and from today you're a taxpayer. It's a way for the state to get more funding, and yet that would be the basis for reducing the property tax, because the property tax is very high. Believe me, these four tranches that are paid over the year are a serious problem for many families. In addition to all other monthly obligations, even this big tax, it's not easy and people would be very happy if the system was introduced that everyone pays taxes and that everyone pays at least a little less tax. Here you are now predicting punishment for a violation if someone makes the wrong data and determines the minimum amount - 200,000 dinars, 100,000 dinars, but how can you predict the lowest amount and not predict the highest? Who will determine this highest amount? You're talking here in terms of some percentages, etc. It can't stand like that. If the law states what is the lowest, which is the minimum amount of punishment for a certain offence, there must also be the highest amount. So you haven't done anything right in this law, and in particular the situation on the ground, believe me, is catastrophic. It is high time to settle the situation in the tax administration, especially now, if the state is really defined by the order of Zorana Mihajlovic to buy "Megatrend", we need to know precisely whether tax will be paid, whether the state will buy something to pay its taxes, from which fund, from which part of the budget. The store will be interesting if it comes to it, if Zorana Mihajlović wins in this business as well as in Bechtel and in many jobs where she is involved in corruption affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65383	Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Ljubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65384	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, proposed amending Article 17. Article 17 defines the provisions relating to the act governing the procedure, manner, deadlines, content and form of application which the taxpayer declares to be a business space or business premises. In Article 1(1), the legislator provided for a period of 60 days from the date of entry into force of this law for the adoption of that act. The SRS parliamentary group has this amendment envisioned a shorter deadline than the one given by the legislator. We have suggested that this deadline be shorter and that this act be adopted within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this amendment. Our parliamentary group believes that we have offered a realistic deadline with the amendment and that we should not delay the application of these provisions, especially for procedural reasons such as the adoption of an act which regulates this matter. In view of the fact that the proposal itself states that it is the provisions that prevent taxpayers from stockpiling or placing goods, goods goods, i.e. operating in premises and premises outside the control of the tax authorities and that these changes aim to combat the grey economy more effectively, it is clear that the act and law enforcement should be adopted as soon as possible. In this respect, the adoption of this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group would contribute to improving the quality of the text and, in particular, to the work of a more effective fight against the gray economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65385	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Despotovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65386	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS refers to the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where Article 17 paragraph 2. He replaces the bill number - the 30th with the number - the 7th. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration does not show whether the proposal contributes to legal certainty in the conduct of tax policy. Could what is proposed affect the more effective control of the gray economy? The task is extremely serious while the projected resources are insufficient. You should seriously consider that this kind of legal-technical material simplifies this matter. Will the law be less interpreted and more effective in carrying out regular and forced taxes? It is a good thing that the bill promoter envisaged this proposal to simplify tax procedures, as well as to improve operational activities in curbing the gray economy, but only so that it does not remain a dead letter on paper as we know from the experience that similar happened not once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65387	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65388	Ladies and gentlemen, the management of a single information system from local self-government is being taken over by the Republic. I think it's important to work on black. What if we have televisions founded in Western Europe? Let's say, when a singer, to put it this way, an estrate star of the lower category, goes to perform somewhere abroad has to pay a tax, he has to report his performance, whether it is so, Mr. Krlić, to report him, to perform all the procedures and if something is just wrong - a ban on appearances, and God forbids access to that country for a certain time, as far as I remember, to be happy, or how singers are to be happy if they get away with that kind of punishment, not to be even more severe. We are sent from Western Europe by 20 television channels that are working on black and then some European officials, expensively rewarded, expensively paid, so let's say the Executive Director of REM, the clerk, we do not only have problems with members of the REM Council, Mr Krlić, but also with officials who are constantly employed and posted there, as Secretary-General Milan Todorovic, and when he explains to us the Convention of the Council of Europe on Cross-border Channels and when he mixes it – the Council of Europe with the EU, and when he says that registered television channels in one EU country, EU member states, can uninterruptedly broadcast a programme in another member's country, and in this way he interprets it, and we all know that we are not members of the EU, because we do not have a single market as members of the EU, it makes sense, it as former SFRY, RTB could do so in Ljubljana, etc. Because it was a single market, it's not anymore. We are not members of the EU and such interpretations of our officials, come on, we are not surprised, they are even cautious about this matter, but our officials are coming out of the system and saying – no, it can. It's probably about apos; and some authorities have to examine the attitudes of our officials working against the state. If we had charged all these revenues, advertising taxes, etc., which is not charged, the budget would have been richer, but it would have been richer both local and regional televisions because part of the advertising would have belonged to them. This is how commercials are broadcast on television channels that are not registered here and that directly compete with our TV channels, which unlike these cross-border channels that don't pay, which our people say -- even the bread maker, don't pay any taxes, don't pay REM, they pay RATEL, they don't pay anyone, they don't pay SOKOJ, they don't pay all that. The SBB does not get anything from domestic channels, and these fake cross-border channels, owned by them, receive several euros per user to a subscriber in Serbia. This should be prevented in a certain way, because it would be as if someone had a shoe shop, paid all taxes in the state of Serbia, did footwear or commercial or commercial or catering services, and besides it opened up some of the same shops and said – you know what, I don't have to pay taxes, I don't have to pay taxes, I don't have to pay this country anything, I've fictitiously registered my art in Western Europe, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, etc. And I'm just re-emitting my services here, that I'm doing the same job as you, that you're paying everything, that has nothing to do with me, because, well, I've been fictitiously registering there, and I've been excluded from the system. I call on the government not to fear any more media beatings because it will beat the ministers, beat the officials, beat the MPs. It's a coalition that was founded together with Beta, Today, NIN, those who paint targets, who paint snipers, who target the president of the Republic, who publicly announce, call for hanging, rape, shooting, which some MPs say -- they can hang us, but don't hang us on the terraces, like they hang patriots there, etc. All this is being broadcast by these irregular television channels. I call on you not to be afraid of it, both ministers and MPs, and to simply ask that such actions, whether television companies, whether they are television, whether they provide media services, footwear, any, to invite them to register in the Republic of Serbia, and the way they edit their services, footwear, catering, TV, radio, media, etc. We're not getting into that part. It is important that they meet the conditions that all citizens, all legal and natural persons in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that they are registered and that they can do so in accordance with the laws. They avoid it, not just so they don't pay proper taxes here, taxes etc., but then they don't, out of their big pocket where they collect a subscription to their television channels, transfer money to Luxembourg. That's how they pump up, show false loss, avoid profit tax. These fake cross-border channels need exactly for these illegal operations. Some would say that it is money laundering, where money from the Serbian state is pumped towards Luxembourg and other destinations. That, in my opinion, needs to be stopped. They will continue, they are the media sponsor of everything that is happening, the whole conflict, not with the opposition, we have the whole conflict with Solakova, Gilas's business, about SBB, fake cross-border channels, United Group, United Media, which includes all of this, the Sas Media and the Darrekt Media, which deal with advertising. We have a problem with them, these here, trading mandates, parliamentary clubs, boycotts, etc., it's just a physical workforce, which wants to preserve Solakov and Gilas's business and possibly improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65389	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 18 provides that the Tax Administration will take over the management of a single information system from January 1st 2021. I think this is really one period and this time, a break of law enforcement absolutely unacceptable. What do we bring in advance if we don't apply it immediately? When it comes to taxes and contributions and, above all, taxes, the question arises, should pensions be reduced to pensioners? It was not necessary to reduce pensions for pensioners, but for the robbers of 24 of those privatisations to carry out criminal proceedings, to confiscate all assets and thus provide funds for all needs, which is exactly what the government is seeking, to improve and help those most at risk. I'll give you one more example, they're yellow, and you know who the yellow ones are, that's the DOS democracy, which, in Panchev alone, in the pharmacy of one, committed robbery, a billion and 30 million dinars, and no one ever went to jail. I asked a question six months ago, but I didn't get an answer for him, what were those persons who were dealing with the abuse of official positions and who put money in their pockets and now they're building? Panchevo, as founder, is he supposed to pay the drug suppliers who the thieves of yellow just put in their pockets? And where's the money now, what Mr. Mircic says, where's the money now, that these thieves, first of all, close down and take away their property? They cannot walk freely, and many citizens who barely survive should pay taxes on both chickens and bicycles and on one egg, as a colleague says. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the question now arises from the coalition government, will you once initiate criminal proceedings, to take away the property they robbed from the people?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65391	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. You have received amendments, which were submitted by MPs to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65392	I want to, of course. This member should not have changed, at least not this point 9, and refers to Article 9, otherwise to this existing law, because you've just reformed something, and nothing has essentially changed. It would make sense to change this article, or this point, that you have potentially increased the amount, and that point refers to the aid, which, in the event of the death of an employee or a retired employee, the employer pays to a member of his family, is the amount of 68,488 dinars, was and remained. So just because you've changed the order of words in this sentence, you've changed this term, and that's how all these changes are to you. That's why we're saying all these changes are pointless. This particular tax code that you're changing citizens' income, this is 14 times if I counted right. It's a change now. It's not an aid in the event of death, it's an aid that doesn't mean anything in the event of death, and since you're approaching the end of the calendar year, then there's going to be a conference, and then it's going to be said how many hundreds of laws have been passed in the National Assembly, and how much is only a change and a supplement, and that's the vast majority, you won't talk about it. The people expect laws to be passed in the National Assembly from which people in Serbia will live better. Your mantra to live better, that the average salary increased, that will increase pensions, that will increase minimum earnings etc. is something that formally exists, but essentially doesn't matter. You've increased the electricity price by 3.9% and you announce an increase in pensions by 5.4% or how much percent. So, you'll just reverse the circle and the funds you'll give the pensioners out of the budget will come back through the payment of electricity, through payment of RTS etc. Your poor policy is social, very bad and regardless of the dramatic increase in the average profit, the people in Serbia have a hard life, because nearly 800,000 people live as much of the minimal, which is greater than the minimum wage, which is 7,000 dinars less than the lowest consumer basket. That means the family can't survive, that they have to give up food or one meal for seven days. Anyway, there are no 7,000 dinars, and it's not about social giving, it's about profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65393	Thank you. Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65394	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must confess that I am a little confused by this story of yours. On the one hand, you are talking about how taxes must be paid, and on the other hand, your MPs, MPs of the ruling coalition, have cited numerous objections to companies that have been operating in Serbia for years and have not paid taxes. If it could have been something that you could have bought political points at in the first year of your government, after seven years, I think it's high time to stop it. I think it's about time there's a turn in the state. I think it's high time that at last some affair, even if any in Serbia, has a solution. I lived to be asked by ministers, how would I do, and why I was against it, to take pensioners away from pensions, to kidnap them by law, huge funds. It may be five or six thousand or ten or 15 months, as far as the pensioners are concerned, not much, but believe the pensioners are. They could buy drugs from that money, pay their bills, help their children, because unfortunately Serbia is still the country where the largest number of pensioners besides those regular expenditures of the sea and help their own children and grandchildren. That's exactly how you could have done it, to stop the thief you're talking about at last. Did he steal Gilas 619 million? What are you waiting for, not to arrest him? What kind of relationship are you in, is he still your coalition partner, or has the situation changed at least now? Is this all one big show for the citizens of Serbia? How it is possible that Gilas was good for so many years when he was president of the basketball alliance, and now suddenly, the problem is that he is not like Jelena Trivan, like Milan Markovic and many other prominent representatives of the DS regime, decided to move into one of the ruling parties. That seems to be the way all the sins are washed up. In his time, Aleksandar Vukic was bringing, while he was a radical of course, and at the time he was and I thought for sure, he was bringing a prison suit for Mladjan Dinkic to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remember how excited Veroljub Arsic was with that move. But something has changed in the meantime, so now Mladjan Dinkic is more protected and protected than the white bear. Therefore, gentlemen, don't talk about problems in Serbia, because you are not small, but a huge part of that problem. You are responsible at least because you do not prevent this crime and are practically all the criminals you talk about are still at large, which certainly places you, not in any victim, not in the judges, but in the accomplices of all the robberies that are happening in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65395	The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65396	The level of costs that free anyone in Serbia from paying taxes on citizens' income is unfair. In this article for which I seek an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, this basis is determined on the basis of statistics, i.e. the coster provided by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which is fixed and is not real in real life for either student or student, or for anyone who is on any training, or for those who unfortunately have to be treated. Because they don't admit it, they take some average price that's below real, what a citizen has to pay. But it's amazing, Mr. Minister, that you wanted something, to help young people, athletes who are perfecting and attending EU programmes, so you say, for them up to 100,000 dinars, it's easier not to pay taxes on citizens' income, and for those who go to China, who go to Russia, to Brazil, to other friendly countries around the world, the same for sport, for studying, postgraduate studies, that's not true. Well, then I guess it should be a lot more for them, because it's also more of a distance from some of those countries. Maybe the cost of living there is much higher and they are real, and our students, here it was 11,000, now I'm going to tell you that they know both parents, 741 dinars. Now you're increasing to 30,000 dinars. This is because those who are exclusively the EU programme, which Serbia will never enter into, and we will do everything on our part not to, so you are giving them, so up to 100,000 dinars, and these others who ask them. By the way, this system of taxation regarding the exemption in fact of the income tax of citizens, it's a unique rate of 10% to an amount that's about slightly higher than 20,000 euros, when it's looked at in dinars, last year it was two million 470 thousand and something, but it's about the same course, it's not unfair. You look all synthetically, and you don't watch if someone has a loan for the apartment, if someone's hit with loans in Swiss francs. No, that he doesn't have that income anymore, that you're looking for that he's made and earned somewhere, but he's been taken away by all these bank robberies, and the state hasn't protected him, and you're still gonna charge him taxes on citizen income, so that's really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65397	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65398	Article 6 has to be deleted. Because this is what you predicted unconstitutional, because it is absolutely contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act. It's about people who have been following our work being able to understand, it's about stamps for transportation, the simplest thing to say, because it's a topic that's been talking about for months, a topic that's causing people a problem for coming and going to work and work. You have now come up with this law to say, of course, that amount paid on the name of transportation to work and from work is not subject to the payment of the income tax, and you have now said that it is not to pay taxes on the employee of the employer on the basis of compensation, you said, documented transport costs for coming and leaving work. This, my dears, is not in accordance with the Labour Act. The labour law is very precise and says the employer is obliged to provide the employee with the means to get to work and get out of work. What's he gonna do with those funds? Whether he'll buy a ticket with those means, whether he'll come to work on a bike, whether he'll come to a broom, whether he'll come four-legged. He's bound to come, he can't say - I didn't come because I don't have a ride. The employer provided him with money for transport and was employed in an obligation to come to work. What are you doing? To ensure that the more funds the city gets traffic, you now oblige people to buy stamps for transportation even though they do not use transportation. Of course, we don't think someone should be driving in city transport without the transport paying. The transport has to be paid and there's nothing controversial about it. But why are you pushing someone who, say, goes on a bike, someone who wants to be recreational, you at least ministers love recreation, you can understand that, someone from New Belgrade to Zemun can come to work with a bike. Is that okay? You got it. Is someone coming to work in a car, so what gets in the name of the means, in the name of transport, buys fuel, of course, it can't be for a month, but it's agreed, I don't know, husband and wife work somewhere close and can use their own transportation on behalf of what gets money to get to work and get out of work. So you can't, and you can't, and you don't have the right, and it's the opposite of the Labour Act that you're bound by someone to spend the means they get on the transport's behalf. He's only obliged to come to work as an employee, because he was provided with a way to pay for the transport. What does this mean to you – documented? Now, how are you going to tell me, say, someone's coming to work with their car and they're going to bring the pump bill to spend 3,000, I think that's so much, about 3,000 in Belgrade costing that monthly ticket, so someone's going to bring proof that they paid 3,000 dinars and I'm asking you, Arsic, as an expert, how is it going to be recorded in the company's accounting? How will the existence of 70 cars in the company be recorded? How is that even going to explain? What will the state auditor say when he sees 50 cars being paid in one municipality, and they're not municipal? So, you're making total nonsense, with one clear goal of providing as much city traffic as possible. You do it by making anyone get on a bus pay for a ticket. It's supposed to be organized and it's not at all controversial to us, but you can't force someone to document how they're going to spend the funds that the company assigns to him on the name of transportation to work, you can't. Well, then you can also ask to document how someone spends their pay. This is amazing. So this is absolutely contrary to the Labour Act, and that automatically means it's unconstitutional and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65399	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65400	The government here is trying to raise an untaxed base from 15,000 to 16300, with tax and contributions being released, with the categorization of certain people who are newly employed or newly populated to contribute in a way to a faster development of the economy, greater development and economy and a greater number of employment. However, the fact is that this is not the way that the government predicts it. In fact, what is somehow saved or possibly saved on these measures, this will be done if it continues with such an unmeasured increase in wages in the public sector. Of course, we Serbian radicals have nothing on the contrary, we have to increase wages, but relatively the growth of the economy and what the private sector can endure, and not like this, that we will be courting the unemployed, but those who will go to polling stations in 2020 and vote, while considering that they will eventually increase their income if this authority remains, and you can look at it by certain sectors, that is, by certain ministries. You now have that in the MUP's biggest receipts. It would be logical and normal to increase the income of those who are exposed to dangers, from that officer on the street to the members of the special units, but here is a linear increase for all employees, so interior ministry officials also have higher salaries, doing the same or similar work as their colleagues by training, by weight and complexity of work in some other ministries. What insists here is that, even my colleague Komlenski insisted, he explained the concept of the newly-inhabited, because that is a broad definition, as it was given here in the light of the bill. We think it was necessary to increase the untaxed base, but the government's assessment is that this should now be maintained to 16300 dinars. We'll see what the effects will be, but it'll be tragic or fatal, God forbid if all these measures you've predicted are one-off, that they don't have any long-term effects, but only in 2020, because we see that you're here to predict something that could possibly be welcomed, and that's that new employees are being treated and those who paid a flat-rate tax by yesterday, and they're being employed in a book-keeping company when it comes to business. So, in some ways, it is to stimulate the part where it is said that even in certain segments and individual activities, flat-rate tax payments are reduced to book keeping, that is, tax payments. That would be for these smaller craftsmen and small-scale enterprises. But that remains the main problem when it comes to cobwebs, we told you the other day, which is lawyers and doctors. There are much, much larger crafts, which turn around, and a much higher tax would be collected if it were to be regulated. However, we have a clear doubt that you will succeed. Here, even a famous, well-known lawyer, Jovanovic lawyer's office, a member of the coalition, immediately says it will not be. If one member of the coalition claims that you can't charge taxes to lawyers other than this casually, then there's still a suspicion that there's something wrong with the coalition. You see that, Minister, with coalition partners how you'll handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65401	Thank you. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65402	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the government, I have submitted another amendment that I would like in some way to put an emphasis on the different proportion of funding and assistance in undeveloped areas, in the areas of the fourth group of underdeveloped areas. Such municipalities and such areas in Serbia are close to 20, so-called The fifth group of municipalities that are underdeveloped. My amendment has put an emphasis on more resources being allocated to those employers who have their business entities on the territory of such undeveloped municipalities, by freeing themselves or returning to them part of that tax, of which 80% would have accepted that tax to return to them, that 80% of the profits would be the smallest profit in such municipalities. This means that there are now 30,000 dinars in our undeveloped areas, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Prokuplje, Meroshina, Black Treva, that I do not forget, since it has repeatedly suggested to me Professor. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Black grass is one of those municipalities that also has major problems. Therefore, it would be good to give such municipalities the opportunity for employers who open their businesses, for people who do that mandatory part of the tax to be freeing them, or for them to return up to 70% of the funds, which means that if they were to get that possibility that 80% of the average salary in Serbia would be for those employers who accept it, that the state would pay them back those up to 70% of the mandatory tax contribution, they would have the lowest salary of 43.000,00 dinars. In this way, they would stop the migration and the departure of our people from such municipalities, give them the opportunity to bring new employers to such municipalities. I am sure it is the only way to ensure the return of our people working outside the borders of our Serbia or beyond the borders of such municipalities that work in large centres. So, a big need, and I'll talk about it in the next period. The state of Serbia, the competent ministry through tax policy by liberating and stimulating new jobs, but with more singleing out for employers and workers' salaries, because only liberating the employer of certain mandatory taxes and contributions, and that difference is intended to increase for so many employees' salaries, will give them the opportunity to have higher salaries there, that they can live better than their earnings, to increase profits, because, as I said in the amendment, it is the employer who accepts to ask the state for this help, to have at least 80%, the average salary to be in such municipalities, so that is 43.000,00 dinar. It's a big deal and it would be great and it would be necessary to accept this amendment and thus make it more supportive to employ workers from the devastated areas, undeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas, from municipalities that have a major problem with demographics, because it will be the only way to stimulate tax-free and contribute, to employ people, to be more funded, to be stronger financing for newborn children, to have unemployed families, it's the only way that people stay there to live. Once again, I would call on fellow MPs to support this amendment of mine, to support the development of undeveloped mountain-mounted areas of devastated areas. It is not a major task for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it will be a great deal of help for people living in such environments and for those who would return to such environments. Thank you again. As President of the United Peasants' Party, I will support the draft of these laws, but I would also like to invite fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65403	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65404	Dear colleagues and colleagues, our famous colleague from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, mentioned me a little while ago, and he also mentioned Crna Trav and I am grateful to him for taking care of Black Treva as well as all other places. His amendment is very interesting and I will support it. I think the government and all of us need to hear about those areas that our colleague was talking about. We can't let those border, mountain-mounted, less-developed places shut down slowly, and we have a situation where people go from there, that we can't today, tomorrow, or defend those places, or save them. This may be a bit uninteresting at this point, but believe me, we'll get into a situation very quickly so we can hit our heads why we didn't take care of those people living in places like this and not take care of those places. It is normal that this cannot be a criticism for one government or one majority which is five, six or 10 years in the Assembly, it is the fault of all of us in Serbia back thirty years and perhaps several years. It's up to us to make it right and I think it'll be very wise to accept... Ministers, ministers, colleagues! He can't hear. It will be very wise to accept the proposal made by a colleague from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65405	The word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65406	Here, Mr Stojmirović, I trust you everything you said and you're all right about what you said and everything is right about what Mr. Milletić said and the amendment he submitted is good. But you can see that even as part of that ruling coalition, you cannot even provide the minister's attention, let alone the minister's answer. And that's exactly the best problem. You tell a story, tell a story about how you're supposed to take care of the peasants, say it can't be the government's responsibility. We agree. It's not just this government's responsibility, the village's been going on for years, it only mentions in pre-election campaigns, but it's no excuse, you're the current government. You're supposed to support those proposals now, not just the government. Well, here you are, as MPs, if you vote that, it will become part of the law. You don't just have to look at the ministers and wait for the bell to ring, then vote. If you recognize yourself it's good for Serbia, it's good for the village, good for the peasants, so vote. There can be no Parliament of Servants of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but they are there to enforce the laws that the National Assembly votes and all of us as holders of the sovereignty that the citizens of Serbia have passed on to us. This is a great way and a great opportunity to see how much the People's Assembly has really been committed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At times, ministers persuaded MPs, begged MPs to vote in favour of their legal proposals. Now not only is it the other way around, but the ministers have completely dissolved, are not concerned and are not interested in what MPs are saying, or even MPs from the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65407	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65408	Thank you. A fellow MP, Nemanja Sarovic, I think he supported me in this way, which is a good sign to hear the amendment proposal, the one given the accent on undeveloped areas, the municipalities that are the fourth group of underdevelopment, the devastated areas, the devastated municipalities, because believe me, people, in these municipalities here when I speak in the Assembly, I say here - I come from Srljig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, I represent that people and so on. But, on the other hand, a large number of my men from Svrlig say, "Why do you talk like that, a colleague, or a friend and a neighbor?" It's a wave of people who think differently from me, think like some predecessors who were there in our 2000s in power. They say that I come from the worst municipality in Serbia, where the lowest salary is, but I want my municipality, where I come from, Srljig, to show that it has the capacity there, to have the opportunity to live in the best way, but here I am now in the Assembly always saying that it would be good, that it would be necessary not only Srlig, but all these municipalities that are undeveloped and Black Trava and Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Merošina, Bolovac and a lot of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and also outside of southeast Serbia have the need to allocate more funds there, to free employers for the salaries of workers, to increase the salaries of workers. I suggest to you that whoever of the employers accepts this proposal be at least 80% of the average salary in those environments, those of our people. On the other hand, it is normal for the state of Serbia to stimulate this. These are not big redundancies for the Republic of Serbia's budget when employers are released in this way, there will be new labour, there will be new workers, there will be a higher salary and believe me, I am sure that people will not go out of these small areas then. It would be good except for these small environments that even in our village, there is a greater opportunity to be more subsidized and more affordable from the village and for women, both for children and for those married couples and normal, for those who open cooperatives, agricultural land, to provide them with larger subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65409	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65410	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say, I agree with Milia again for what he said, but I only have one objection. That they criticized him, so beauty and wealth never went together. Milia and I never say that these municipalities are the richest, we talk about their beauty, and usually, unfortunately in life, one who is beautiful doesn't have to be rich. Now, that also hit Black grass, and its place and all the very nice and nice places in Serbia. As for the opposition of a fellow SRS colleague, I made it clear that I would support this proposal from my colleague, Milia. At the same time, you saw that I support all those amendments that I think are in the interest of Serbian citizens and I have no problem supporting something that is good and that is in the interest of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65411	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65412	It is a good thing, Mr Stojmirovic, and to you, here you are, truly, the most sincere honor to support what you think and what is obvious, in the extreme line, that it is in the interest of Serbian citizens, because who can, in common with common sense and who, if he wants to do well in Serbia, say that it would not be good to give these incentives to the poorest municipalities? Mr Milletić also notes that these are the most beautiful municipalities and the most developed. They belong to the category of devastated. The fourth category is the last. The problem is that someone thinks Serbia will strengthen and that the birth rate will rise by giving huge subsidies to some, they say, investors. Of course he won't, and especially he won't... So not only will Serbia not make progress in this way, but we will certainly not fix the birth rate. Natality always fixed the village in Serbia. If we finally have a satisfied, rich Serbian peasant, then we'll have rich and strong Serbia, but there's another problem here in the middle. You know, it's not enough for you as an individual to say it – I'll support it, but the point is to see why your colleagues, who I also assume want good Serbia, do not have the courage to support proposals that are obviously good. Milija Miletic is not the only one who supports the ruling coalition, which comes from the poor municipality. There's a lot of them. The question is how will these people return to their villages and their cities and look into the eyes of the people who chose them and said, "We should not vote for what is good for you." The problem is that you are still at the level of individuals who want Serbia well, but most of your colleagues who support the ruling coalition have no courage for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65413	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65414	Thank you. I don't have a lot of opportunities in this way to talk to my colleagues across the street. Otherwise, I have great respect and respect for every opinion and opinion of Mr. Sarovic, who is indeed a man who has a great political experience behind him, who has great experience as a national MP. On the other hand, also colleague Stojmirović, Prof. Dr. has great knowledge and experience and knows the problems of our small environments. I've been talking here since the first day I came to the Assembly in 2014, about the problems that concern all of us. The same life is not the same here in Belgrade on Vracar, and it is not the same life with us living in southeastern Serbia. When an employer comes to us in these small areas, I can also thank the Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, our government, who sees as much as possible to help speed up such investors through separate measures. I think this is one of the most important measures that would help create new jobs, that existing jobs there can continue to work for people, with the provision of higher wages, not to be the lowest salary in Srlig and the White Palanca, in Black Grass, in Gajino Han. Believe me, people, that we as a local self-government try in every way to, through certain measures given by local self-government, provide stimulating measures, what gives us the law, but we from the locals don't have that possibility. That is why it takes a systemically one law that would give them a greater opportunity to open new jobs, existing jobs, to have employers respected there, that is to give them the opportunity to get their money back for each salary, that is to say, at the gross amount of those 70% of freedom, in order for that difference to be paid to the worker, and on the other hand, that employer to continue to work. It's a great chance that in these municipalities... This is the only way to support these municipalities and normally allocate more resources for newborn children, for unemployed families, for agriculture. It is given, but there must be a difference for those who live in Srlig, that there is at least 50% higher maternity benefits, for newborn children than in other parts because it is the only way for people to stay there to live, to work and to develop there normally with the support of a country that is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65415	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65416	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that every municipality in its own way is the most beautiful and good thing to do and that this government is dealing with the essence, not the titles, and when we add it all together, to say with pride, I come from the most beautiful country in Europe, from Serbia. It's up to us to link it up. It's up to us to do it that way. I come from such a municipality, the fourth category of undeveloped, but I think the Pryboj municipality is more beautiful than when the Central Engineering School was reconstructed, and the OS "Desanka Maksimović" and a biomass heat was built, which is also heated, and the value is over 700 million dinars. The municipality of Priboj is also more beautiful than a few days ago, when we marked the employment of 500 workers in the new industrial zone in Priboj, which is the youngest industrial zone in Serbia. She's even nicer since she came to us, Corridor 11, when the work started than Chuck towards Požega. The municipality of Nova Varoš is more beautiful since the reconstruction of the "Zivko Ljujic" OS with 550 million dinars and also biomass heat. Lepša is Nova Varoš and when it is working and travels from one km to the tourist zone Zlatar and offers a brand-new tourist offer of Zlatar itself. Corridor 11 makes Zlatibor, Zlatar and Pribojska spa a single continent which will raise tourism in that part of Serbia to an even more beautiful level and beauty, when we are on the subject of beauty, discovers on a much higher level. So we're dealing with the essence. Požega is also more beautiful than when the highway will arrive in two years, when the most modern plant of the dedicated industry, worth 90m euros, will be built there. Požega was more beautiful than a few days ago, when she had a successful privatisation of "Buda", which has been waiting for years. It's been nicer to the King since we have a functional airport called Boats. It's been nicer since we have the Forverk industrial zone, where more than a thousand people will work, again Corridor 11 and Morava Airport. So we're essentially making Serbia more beautiful. We connect it to corridors, highways, new jobs. We're making a picture in a world like Serbia is that when investors come in and we talk to them, I had a chance, they say -- people, we had other prejudices about Serbia, this is something else. I'm sorry, but we didn't expect this. Therefore, all municipalities are beautiful, but nothing better than when we go somewhere, we go back and say – we are from the most beautiful country in Europe, from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65417	According to the amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65418	I answered the line, but I'll be right back. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65419	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65420	By amendment. So, Mr. Janjusevic, if I understand correctly, will you support this amendment? Secondly, you said it was good for the Serbian government to deal with it. Unfortunately, the government is not concerned, this is Mr Milletic's amendment and the question is whether the government of the Republic of Serbia will support this. The third thing, when you list these natural beauty, is indeed the Zlatar beautiful and Nova Varosh and Priboj and you say the more beautiful and beautiful Priboj. Is it a nicer Priboj since the Mercedes is produced in it? Is it more beautiful than when the FAP didn't work, which was a symbol of this Preyboy? They're not Mr. Janjusevic's things in Serbia black and white and don't even try to represent them by defending them indefensibly. Now let's not be all about party propaganda. Finally, if we had one correct and concrete discussion and agreed to help these poorest municipalities, because it's the only way to prevent this kind of economic solar system and prevent so much inflow into the cities and not become all the villages in the desert, don't immediately move with that party propaganda, we've built this much, we've built so much, let it go. It could have been built more, but now it's not a topic. Let's get back to it, and if we're going to essentially, are you able to convince one more of your colleagues to support this amendment so that all Serbian citizens are better off?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65421	The right to the reply of the People's Messenger Krsto Janjušević, then Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65422	About this FAP. Alexander Vukic did not find 7,000 FAP employees who produce 7,000 trucks. He found the FAP that was on his knees and which had a hard time working, which three technological revolutions, workers did not blame, slept through, and the FAP in which it was better to invest 20 and 30 years ago. Very nice, it's such a political abuse of the FAP theme. Today, FAP is a step closer to the dedicated industry. Today, military vehicles are being built in FAP. Today, the FAP is being remounted to a Bolt combat armored vehicle with highly sophisticated technology and we are fighting. You want to ask if we're satisfied? No, we're not. When it works there, now it works 200 people, when it works 400, we won't be satisfied. But we talked about real things. Is the FAP shut down? The Pryteans know best, so in the last election, they said 67% of Alexander Vukic. At a time when the biggest crisis was about FAP, we had no problem saying, we failed to privatize, but we will never give up looking for a solution to that FAP. The FAP is closer to the dedicated industry. We formed an industrial zone where 500 people now work. We have huge investments in tourism. How can you say now that I keep quiet the good things that have been done? Just because someone abuses FAP, I'm going to talk about a lot of topics that are in some way and we've saved FAP, but we've expanded on some more topics. We couldn't stay tied to it all our lives. So, God forbid these by 2012, they privatized FAP and worked on that principle of theirs, I'd be here today representing a local community of Priboj, not a municipality of Priboj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65423	Right on line, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65424	Thank you. I would say a few more things about this part of which we are now talking about, about my amendment that requires the possibility of more resources being provided, the return of funds to employers who are opening and who have opened jobs in devasted and undeveloped areas, and that the share for them is such that we tie them up, that at least 80% of the salaries to these workers are committed to giving in relation to the average earnings in Serbia. This would get those municipalities out of that fourth group or devasted community to a greater degree of development, which is the goal of all of us. Otherwise, I can also support my colleague Janjusevic, normally, because, in our case, we have talked several times about the problems that are being solved and who are being solved, the highway to Sofia, the highway to Greece, the reconstruction of the railway track from Nis, Književec, Srlig towards Zajecar. These are all elements that are very positive for bringing investors. The big thing is it's been done from the airport of Nis, through Srlig for the Old Mountain. The old Mountain is the most beautiful thing. Who wasn't there should go, go over Nis, see what kind of landscape it is, what beauty it is, and normally go back to the Old Mountain, then go back to our place, try the shrewd white male, the shrewd lamb, try the quality products from our neighborhood, and normally maybe be some investor who will invest in our municipality or in the White Palanca, or in Gadjin Han, or in Knjižvac, Sokobanja, Bolovac. Normally, by my amendment, if you accept it, fellow MPs, if they accept it, we will have the opportunity to have these employers who open jobs there, to stimulate them by doing what they do through the return of funds up to 70%, and they would commit to their net earnings for workers being at least 80% on average, which is in the Republic of Serbia, that is at least 43,000 dinars, there would be no 30,000 dinars. I mean, if no one resents what I'm saying, I'm saying what I know and I'm sure that the state of Serbia and our President Vukic will follow all of this, know in what way to make a suggestion, to accept these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65425	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65426	Mr. Janjusevic, here you say yourself that you found FAP on your knees, that you found it on the edge of the break-in and then you said you helped them take a step forward. That's exactly what happened. Sometimes, our people have a saying – if the goat lies, the horn does not lie, so sometimes you may be reluctant to tell the truth and admit what is the essence. You are not sinless, nor your authority is sinless, nor have the citizens of Prytoy voted for you because you have shut down the FAP. Don't talk about this election, about that election, it's ultimately on trial. History will judge you. And "yellow" when we listened to 2010, 2011 and 2012, they talked about these evil predecessors who are guilty of everything. It's boring for the citizens. You're in the eighth year of your term, in the eighth year of power. Taking advantage of your predecessors isn't just about your incompetence, it's about hypocrisy, and here's why. Which predecessors? The ones you're sitting together in the benches with? Those who are part of the ruling majority? So what took both the SPS and the SPO and Rasim Ljajic and Mladjan Dinkic and half the DS frames, and all that from your coalition partners, and Karic? It can't even count. Fifteen, 20, how many do you have? She changed DS from SNS, but the story stayed the same. You share ideology, you share human resources, you share pro-European politics. That's why Serbia's going bad. Try to change your policy. It's not just personal change that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65427	Right on the line, Messenger of the People, Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65428	All those you've listed compared to Mark Bastic, if we have to hug, if we have to, and on the subject of coalition partners. So, you've said something here that you've prepared for a whole other performance, so you've adapted for what I've been saying. I was absolutely talking about the results we made. Do you want me to tell you how many times Alexander Vukic was in Priboj, how many times he met with engineers of a Finnish company who was supposed to privatise? How many times did he sit with them, how many times did they say – we are not used to talking to the prime minister of a country; but he did everything to convince them that Serbia, that Pryboy is the right place to invest them and his authority if necessary. We didn't make it. We don't have a problem saying we didn't make it. I repeat again, but we never stopped at that. History judges, slowly. Don't do that at all, judging people in the election. It's a holiday of democracy. They say 67% of Alexander Vukic's on the subject when we're most attacked by FAP right now. You guys come over there and see how much you're building in Priboj. You've got it all figured out what's wrong with FAP. There's still a lot of issues. If we were to narrow it down by what's going on with this, what about it, it sounds correct politically, but don't you notice that it doesn't bring any more political points or votes? Votes bring only work and only work. So I don't list the bad things of the last government here, I'm counting hundreds of kilometers of highways, hundreds of thousands of new jobs, unemployment that fell below 10%, and we found 25%. Maybe that's better for you. I don't think so. I'm counting the results here, and what was -- it was -- it didn't happen again. Exactly what you're saying, history in one of its parts has said its own, and that's what the citizens have taken over and said in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65429	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65430	Mr. Janjusevic, you're making a terrible mistake. You do whatever's well done, you say - do the Wolf. He did this to Wolfie, he did this highway, he did that highway. Tell me, Mr. Janjusevic, where's the highway to Priboj? And that's where he could go, so he's gone, went to the coalition partners for the New Market. Right? That's right. And that's part of your policy. And it's part of the coalition partners you're pulling on your back and you don't have to, because you've got citizens' trust, but you don't know what to do with it. And it can't be a happy state where the Prime Minister, as you say, needs to go talk to Finnish engineers. That's crazy. That's crazy. Do you think one man should ask for everything in one country, both the national stadium and the highway, and the Finnish engineers, and the Priboj, and the Nova Varosh, and the Srlig, and everything else? And a much more important question - and what does it say about all of you, gentlemen? What does that say about the ones sitting in government? What does that say about the presidents of the municipalities? About the county presidents? What's he saying? Nothing. We're waiting for Wolf and it's the only policy. You can't do it without institutions. It can't be done without sharing responsibility. One man can't be a country. Never in the history of any country, not a single nation did it any good. Do we need a new Tito? Didn't the Serbian people pay enough for the delusion of brotherhood and unity in the former Yugoslavia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia? Now you are talking, the Balkan peoples. What a Balkan people! The Serbian people! We don't need any Balkan union. You didn't promise that to the citizens of Serbia. You have no courage to admit that there is nothing of the European Union and thank God there is none, but don't beat us up with the Balkan Union either.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65431	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65432	Thank you. First of all, the SPS was not taken, but was called to share power and to share responsibility for participation in government and this responsibility in the right way and bear and burden of responsibility, along with a coalition partner, who represents a superior political party on Serbia's political scene. But what's underprivileged is an understatement on what this government has done, what is it that citizens allegedly suffer and not the government has done. The government has done a lot and is participating the SPS in the best possible way. Reminders for the sake of this, we were also with the SRS in the 1998 coalition and it was a very good government. The reminders, immediately after the criminal bombing, the SPS and its officials made a huge contribution to raising the country from the ashes before the famous October 5th. Many bridges have been restored, many roads have been restored and that should be known, and at the same time to be reminded, because the past has not been so long ago. On the other hand, what no one can dispute, no one can question, it is true that the highway did not go to Priboj, it is possible that it will pass in another highway connection, but it is even more accurate that it has never been built as many miles of highways as it has been built in the last seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65433	Right on the line, Messenger of the People, Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65434	Just a little bit of information, you'd see a leg heading for Kotroman, and that's 30 km from Preboy. If anyone thinks the highway should go through some community, that's his problem. I think it's rare that a municipality in the world can boast that it's just passing the highway, but good. What's heading towards New Pazar, you're probably expecting here some performance that you're something heroic, I don't know what, he's supposed to go to New Pazar, what's worse, we Serbs, it should go where Serbs live. Well, there's this difference and that line right there. Let him head towards Novi Pazar, he will move on towards Montenegro. They're all our friends, they're all our citizens. Someone estimated to go there, not whether most Serbs or Bosniaks live there, they are all Serbian citizens. Do you know how easy it is to get a round of applause on the subject and how much easier it is to argue on the subject? Here, now I can write three statuses on Facebook, on Twitter, on Instagram, and set the situation on fire, nothing easier. I'll get a round of applause somewhere I need to get. But I'm not interested in getting a round of applause where you're interested in getting a round of applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65435	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break by 2.30 p.m., for when the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was convened in the 11th Assembly, at which his Excellency, Aleksandar Grigorievich Lukashenko, President of the Republic of Belarus, will address the MPs. We continue our work after the end of the 20th special session. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 10th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65437	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I appeal to the government and state authorities, and earlier on, he spoke to President Lukashenko of his own experience, so I ask the authorities to check whether the income tax paid by Jugoslav Ćosic, owner of the company, majority owner of 90% of the company "Ki Connect" and related relatives of 10% of the company "Ki Connect", registered in Belgrade? It's about the money he's received in the past year as a consultant to the Baška Mulaja, the leader of the tropoic mafia, a drug dealer whom the UN, not according to my claim, but according to the claims and evidence that Nebojsa Medovic made, chase for money laundering and drug trafficking. Of course, our very opposition, when he talks about narcotics, tries to transfer it to the firm "Jovanjica", where nine people were arrested immediately, all evidence has been obtained, everything is processed, etc. Our very opposition forgets that their chief financier, their investor, in their time, was Saric, a leading drug dealer, a man sold to companies in Vojvodina. Today they forget it and try to get some points out in a case that's being processed and credited to today's authorities that vigorously suppress drug trafficking. With this in mind forgets our very opposition that the software director of N1 television, not registered Luxembourg TV, was an adviser to the leader of the drug lord, the leader of the tropoic mafia, the Albanian mafia for 249,000 and some euros. I'm interested in the state authorities to determine how much income tax is paid, because for that money, even if it should pay taxes for such a job, if it's a job, that kind of counseling of a drug dealer. Also to check, given that the money from the company "Ki Connect" went to the private accounts of Jugoslav Cosic and the related person, what happened? Did the income tax paid for the 33,000 British pounds they received and raised from several accounts, given that General Simovic, did so, Mr Martinovic, received 200,000 euros for the March coup... (Alexander Martinovic: Funti. )......................................................................................................... pounds, pardons, British pounds, and Jugoslav Ćosic and the second founder of "Ki Connectna" received 335,000 pounds? Also to check for a total of 510,000 euros did the income tax paid to citizens and to those $147,000 and to those 37 million dinars, how much, in the last few years, have they raised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65438	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65439	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, these proposals we are discussing today show us in particular the government's intention to reform certain areas. I am sure that the debate beyond and from the MPs and from the present Minister Djordjevic will be quality and constructive. All proposals actually follow the budget that we recently adopted, which we heard from Minister Syniche Malo that they will be developmental and aimed at improving the standard of living for our citizens. Of course, MPs of that part of the opposition that boycotts work in parliament, and does not boycott salaries, have not come here today to discuss the proposed solutions, but we are therefore witnesses to this, and even in the previous days, that there have been attacks on Alexander Vukic and on ministers in the government, instead of hearing proposals here concerning the proposed solutions. It has taken so long that, for example, citizens, who are apolitical or who do not support the SNS directly, have found out what the problem is and what a bad daily call to the link of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. I am proud of my fellow citizens who first organized themselves in Nis and who took a quiet walk in such a way as to show that Alexander Vukic actually has a very strong support for the people. I was pleased to join this group of my fellow citizens, in that walk, whose message was only - stop violence and stop the bloody scenario. Nis showed what decent Serbia looks like. In Nis, we showed that we can express our position without endangering anyone, threatening anyone, harassing anyone. People on the street alone joined our quiet walk through town with their families, with their friends and with their children. I'm proud of the degree of consciousness that we've shown about knowing how bad violence really is. We gave strong support to Alexander Vukic and everything he does for Serbia. We've committed ourselves to fighting every attack on him. I'm glad the initiative started from Nis, because it means that people and the local people recognize the effort, diligence and work of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. The SNS parliamentary group will also provide support by speaking openly about it and by supporting the proposals that are ahead of us in the voting day, proposed by the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65440	Thank you. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic, Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65441	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Djordjevic, as I discussed in principle the opening of the Chinese company "Shinj" for ice and lighting that will employ about 1,000 workers in Nis, I will now say another good news, which is that the town of Nis has launched a competition for the construction of a grand Expo centre, a confirmation that the town of Nisava successfully continues to implement plans of development of one of the largest centres in Serbia and this part of the Balkans. The future Expo Center, whose construction is planned at the Lozni Kalem site in Niško Banja, ranks Nis shoulder to shoulder with Sofia, Athens, Bucharest and other cities in this part of Europe that have built similar centres in recent years. More than 37,000 square metres of useful space has been planned for fair and exhibition events, concert halls and congress halls to hotel, catering, tourist, cultural and sports facilities. That way more people will be employed, so the number of unemployed that we inherited from 38,000, there were so many unemployed in Nis, will fall to below 25,000, as it is now. So we've managed to get a job so far, if I count well, about 13,000 people. All this says that on the basis of the contribution, there will be more funds in the PIO Fund, and thus less interventions from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which now stands at 22.4%, and there was, to remind, 40%. Why am I saying all this? Because the previous yellow power, starting with Mayor Zoran Zivkovic, Zoran Ciric, has left Nis for Belgrade, and left us with a wheel of unemployment in the mud. That's why it takes time for those spiders to start at that point. All of this is aimed at another realization of one of the most valuable projects started with the Republic of China and the company "Huaway" to which Nis will become, I will not say the most beautiful city, but I will say it will become "the first smart city" in our country. All these facts contribute to how much President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian government cares about the progress of the development of this city, Nis with a warm Slovenian soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65442	Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65443	The Civilian Income Act including corrections, interpretations, changes and additions since 2001 has suffered 25 interventions to date. The fact that so many interventions under this law indicate that employers, as well as accountants and other persons who need to apply this law, are a little harder to cope with. It's nice to hear here how to live in Nis, how much is invested in Nis, Priboj, Leskovac, Ljig and all other places, but Mr. Minister, there are still some places in Serbia that are also beautiful. I couldn't say for any town or municipality if it wasn't nice. On the contrary, Serbia is a beautiful country, but in some areas, in some municipalities not to invest enough, they are indeed on the verge of the government's observation of the Republic of Serbia. I can't say that there's nothing in some places invested when it comes to electricity efficiency, there's something going on, but that's not enough. It would be good before our municipalities remain empty to invest there, because there is one mutual relationship between investment and giving, or giving and investment. If the government finds opportunities and strength to invest in a place like Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija, Osecina, Bajina Basta, Krupanj, it can certainly expect a higher income tax for citizens. Does the state benefit? There is. If someone leaves the place once, hard, they should offer him double the conditions to return than at the moment of their departure. It's much easier to do and keep before those villages, cities, than to return later. I always point out that example of population policy. They're not worth these measures now, which may not be small, but they can't produce results. It may not only be guilt or failure, let's not say guilty, but the failure of this government that's been eight years, but also the previous. That's why it would take a lot more to get the state to benefit. We understand why the state would benefit. We understand why these interventions were made to amend and supplement the Law on Income of Citizens, because it is a public income that can only be charged and taken into account in the cases provided for by law. Liberations must also be provided for by law, including the fact that the non-taxable part of the salary will increase, or be increased from 15,300 to 16,300, which had to be provided for by this law and therefore we have this intervention. It seems to me that even a thousand, two more, the minister will say again – but in absolute terms, that's a lot. For us, Serbian radicals, there is no small and large money. Every money needs to be made by profit, and it needs to be earned. Therefore, there is no division of small and large, but it is certain that employers could do far better, far more to employ workers. The point is 9.5% unemployment, fell below the two-digit number. It is not yet a fact that tells Serbian citizens enough. When you say how much the average personal income is, it may be the average, but there are those who have no income at all, are not measurable, are not recognized by the system, to those who have extremely low incomes, or low wages and earnings, and their average increases significantly, and those who, I'm sure, have not always been able to earn such high personal incomes. Thank you. (Branimir Rancic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65444	Right on line, MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65445	Thank you. The previous speaker mentioned the town of Nis, so since I was before him and spoke, I have to answer that he gave me a good introduction, not a clagort, but an introduction and I forgot to mention also the scientific and technological park in Nis with new facilities at the Faculty of Electronics and with one of the largest research laboratories in Serbia to be made. That's another proof that Nis works and builds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65446	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65447	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 337th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, for which they receive their salary neatly. But that's not what's worst. We are also used to not coming to meetings of the National Assembly where we discuss laws. However, what I can't get past is that they didn't do well to come to this special session of the National Assembly that was held a few minutes ago, where he addressed an honest and informed friend of Serbia and the Serb people, Alexander Lukashenko, as president of Belarus. They did not find it appropriate to come even to that part of the session, to show minimum respect for an honest and informed friend of Serbia, but it is not even what is worst. It's the worst message they've sent to the citizens, and it's the visit of Alexander Lukashenko. So one of them, it was Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who appeared on Twitter with one shameful message of this magnificent visit and this magnificent speech, which we heard just minutes ago as a confirmation of the top friendship between the Belarusian and Serbian people. Look at this Sanda Raskovic Ivić, what he says – Lukashenko addresses the Serbian Parliament on Tuesday. There is no opposition in Belarus in parliament. It is likely that before the spring elections Kim Jong Un will also address the regime's experience and good practice regarding the election process. Shame on her. Shame on Sandu Raskovic Ivić for a relationship that points to a sincere friend of the Serb people, but what to expect from that Sanda. Professor Atlagic also spoke here on several occasions about its operation when she also called the "Storm" a humanitarian action, etc. A worse thing happened a few minutes ago when Aleksandra Jerkov, a Member of the DS, wrote the following on her Twitter account – dictator Lukashenko at the entrance to the Assembly Hall kissing with war criminal Seselj along with the frenetic applause of the Progressives. He's looking forward to something like that. These are the top examples of debauchery and the ultimate examples of shame on the Serbian political scene and one shameful relationship they show towards, I will repeat several times today, the top friend of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia, and it is no wonder she got the nickname she got from my distinguished colleague, Natasha Jovanovic, for her actions here in parliament. Shame on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65448	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a misunderstanding this morning about support for agriculture. I have to correct some of my colleagues on this side, because they failed to say that the state singles out 115% more funds, in euros I speak, than it was before 2012. As far as the areas with difficult working conditions are concerned, I must say that it is only there that they come across the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. After 2012, the level of incentives for areas with difficult working conditions for agriculture is 65%, 65% if you work in these areas of agricultural work for which the rest of the farmers receive 50%. It's kind of a positive discrimination and my colleagues have missed out on that fact. Also on the issue of numbers, let's say the throats that are necessary to obtain a premium of subsidies in these areas that are not subject to difficult working conditions, you must have at least three cows to apply the incentives of that kind to you. In areas with difficulty, they say, marginal areas are enough to have only one. On the subject of sheep, is that right, Mr. Martinovic, there is no need for sheep to fade nicely, but areas with difficult working conditions can have 10 sheep and get incentives at a level of 65%. In these other areas, 30 pieces and you get 50%. So, the most favoured are these areas with difficult working conditions such as Svrljig, Gajin Han, Black Treva, the municipalities that were mentioned here. My best-intentioned colleagues missed the opportunity. Let's say, on the agricultural land income that's being issued in Vojvodina, one part, I don't like that expression to say, one part is being paid for so-called. The narrow part of the Republic of Serbia. From that part of the budget, farmers in the Vojvodina territory do not have the right to encourage, say, wells, land planning, but only areas they call marginal, I call with difficult working conditions. So there are several ways in which we favor exactly the areas with the difficult working conditions that are listed here, with the aim of keeping that population, because the measure of incentives and premiums is not only because of agriculture, but also because of demographics. We are trying to keep the population still living in the country and therefore we are doing such a positive discrimination that someone who deals with the same work in one part of the area with difficult working conditions, so on. The marginal has far more rights than the rest of us who work in other areas, where we have 50%, or slightly lower rights just so that those not populated and less populated places with difficult working conditions have better conditions and get more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65450	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65451	I thank the chairman. I would refer to my fellow MP Marijan Risticevic's comments that this government is not only giving funds for agriculture, but it is also proof today that as much subsidies are given in tourism. What we just heard in our colleague's statement from the Radical Party that the funds are not allocated to small municipalities is not true. The funds have never been allocated to small municipalities, and the funds have never gone east again, such as today. In the municipality where I come from, which is Sokobanja, would the development of tourism in this percentage be developed if it were not allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget to subsidies for vouchers used by Serbian citizens, thereby in some way increasing the standard of Serbian citizens. The crow spa, after how old we are, is where the hotel is going to be built. The first hotel was built in Sokobanja after 38 years, thanks to subsidies from Serbia's budget. So, those who say that small municipalities don't build, don't invest, it's not true, and here's proof of where I come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65452	Thank you. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected MP Zoran Despotovic's amendment to Article 12. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65453	Mr. Minister, we have almost every year after the adoption of the budget for the following year before the end of the calendar year of the amendment of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. That wouldn't be a problem if you were making life easier for the citizens of Serbia and saying something that 1,000 dinars paid, now it's down to 800, in line with the situation you've seen, that it was a little bit more or not at all not to raise taxes for a while, but there's an issue here that's absolutely anyone who knows how to add two and two clearly. The state cannot otherwise finance everything that the SRS is against, and we have said what are the controversial items in the budget, from the agencies founded by these yellow mobsters that you promised to abolish, through NGOs, the nine billion-dollar separations for them and their anti-Serbian actions, and this exposure to colleagues by Markovic is quite appropriate when it says that those who view the great friend who was just now in the National Assembly, Mr Lukashenko, do not deserve any other comment but who are receiving from us Serbian radicals. But you're giving money out of the budget, and as you finance it, it's the Republic's administrative fees between the rest and taxes and everything else you kill from the citizens. Then the question arises, Mr. Minister, you are a man who can answer that perfectly – why are they constantly increasing from year to year unnecessarily imposing certain categories of people? First, the Traffic Safety Act has been amended, we support it, the criteria for passing the driver's exam have been strengthened, come on, and that was really necessary, along with some of our suggestions that you didn't accept, but why now, if someone needs to replace their existing driver's license, it takes 35% more to pay than it's ever been before? Or if someone picks you up in city traffic, on a trolley bus, tram, bus or lose your driver's license somewhere, you're being punished for it, and you need twice as much to pay than that was the case so far. In the past 10 years, there have been many such accusations, first these yellow ones have begun, and then you, all because of the opening of chapters, synchronising laws with EU standards, citizens in your pocket. Citizens can't take it anymore. You know what, this executive mob that haunts people every day, believe me, Mr. Minister, I'm on my way to Kragujevac every day, which I'm meeting people in a walk through town, talking to them. I've got every third man talking to me about being chased by the executive mob. They're mostly people who are barely, or just on their way to making a pension, or they were engineers, or some employees in some public enterprise that failed, lost their job in the robbery privatisation process by those you didn't process, and now they have to pay for all this to the state, and poor people are forced to drive taxis, drive vans, do some work, just to survive, and they're already people before they retire or already are pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65454	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65455	Dear colleagues, SNS, or its MPs, members, are certainly looking forward to every newborn baby. They look forward to every new job opening and new employee, we look forward to every investment in any place. Apparently, the big gap has become between the rich and the poor. It's not in itself. And that's what the government's policy has led to. You know, colleagues, that some of these vouchers can't afford to go or Sokobanju, or Vranjska Banja, or Banja Koviljač, or any other, and by the way tomorrow it'll be 338 days when they don't come, and it's a good thing they don't come. Let there be political parties, let them fight in their own political sky for themselves, but those who robbed this people, who overjoyed it, did not, but over-indebted, they no longer need to deal with politics. Not just with politics, but not with any public work and no public affairs. When the budget of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government is adopted, then we should see if we did not go well somewhere. If we've done well, if we've seen that they're taking, and also based on the republican administrative taxis and on some other basis, and that's unrealistic, that's more than the service provided provides, it should be reduced. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of practice. We only have or keep fees at the level that they are, or increase them, the reverse is difficult to come by. The digitisation of the public administration and everything else should lead to all documents the citizens of Serbia seek being completely free of charge. Well, the state has to start doing something for its citizens. If very often, any minister explains the draft law on behalf of the Government and he says -- we owe great gratitude to the pensioners of Serbia, we owe great gratitude to those citizens who were willing to tighten their belts, and then I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia and the state should do something for its citizens, and through the reduction of administrative fees. There's no better way or example to help them and come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65456	The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65457	A few years ago, we introduced vouchers and as an incentive for Serbian citizens to fly somewhere. We started with 60,000 vouchers. This year, the Serbian government allocated the funds, which is 500 million for 100,000 vouchers. That's certainly commendable. We know it's not enough and every year it increases from 10,000 to 20,000 vouchers, but they didn't think at all, they didn't even think about the vouchers. You can now lecture us that it is not enough, but in any case it is a success that 100,000 Serbian citizens can afford to take a vacation, compared to three, four years ago when we did not have any citizen who had a voucher to benefit from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is certainly an incentive, through these vouchers, to develop much more tourism in Serbia than before 2012, when you did not have any new hotels in Sokobanja, and now we have two new hotels to build. It's not just Sokobanja, it's the whole of Serbia. This is how agriculture, traffic and any other infrastructure that monitors tourism develops.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65458	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65459	I am pleased that my colleague will report after me and can promote both Banish tourism and Sokobanju. That's good, and I don't mind, I support you in that. But if you don't mind, take a walk, that is, in these new hotels, and look at the wages paid to the employees, so see that we don't have these entrepreneurs and employers who get baptized on the day, ask their workers to work or to swap with their colleagues, so he'll have the next day off when he celebrates. That's what we're talking about. We don't talk about what's visible, what's visible, which isn't some problem and it's not a great achievement either. Any moment now, as my colleague Malusic would say, bravo for the government, bravo for local self-government in Soko Banja, but give little to those who do not live such a life. Do you know how many parents there are? That number's shrinking. Our desire not to have them, to be eradicated, which they cannot do to their children, in the morning when the children go to school, to provide them with money for a sandwich. That's what we're talking about. We're avant-garde to pay attention to the individual, to see how he lives and try to do that. Let's not just talk about those who got 10, 15000 euros to open one job and will only be there while the state of Serbia helps them do so. Not one country so-called. Foreign direct investment has not been developed to the extent that citizens of that country, their governments, their people dealing with politics, ministers and people in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65460	Right on line, MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65461	Thank you. I'm glad you guys started talking the same way we did, and we're talking about employment and the number of people who are out of work today. At the hotel when I walk, I see, besides our domestic tourists, foreign tourists who have left foreign currency here. It is no small matter if a million and a half foreign tourists come to Serbia in a year and leave their foreign currency. I'm sure there's a lot of money in the budget, and there's an increase in wages. What you're saying is it's a lot of low wages, people who work in these hotels, so I wouldn't agree with you. I'm talking about hotels owned by citizens of Serbia, not foreign ones. So, in any case, the development of our economy is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65462	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65463	When it comes to taxes, usually the government is bound by one rule, it is to raise taxes where there are all the rules or standards of luxury, and it reduces where there is something that is a short need for each individual. We have a taxi change here when it comes to vehicle registration. Man thinks how much money it takes, how much money it takes to just service that cost that's connected to the vehicle's registration, so no matter how it is, whether the car is a moped or something. It's once a year that regular registration. If it happens that, let's say two years in a row that there's no increase in taxis, then it's considered to be something that's stable when it comes to power. However, these opportunities have been rare in recent decades, these are rare, each year there is an increase in registration fees, regular registrations. If you have any other emergency requirements for registration of a trailer for, say, a replacement traffic or driver's license, then they're extra segregation. Everywhere in the world, gentlemen, it has been established and established that the cost of a country's citizens is less exposed when it comes to registration, by deciding that a new vehicle for at least three years does not need to be registered, that anything, especially when it comes to technical examination or registration of a vehicle. Secondly, even when a vehicle is registered once, in some countries the rule is only when sales are made and changes in the owner are made to another registration or change of the documentation. We have it on a daily basis. You here, gentlemen of the government, freed the fees of those who own the boats. It's not like anyone thinks a boat's over-needs and a car or a motor vehicle's a luxury, is it? Whoever has a vessel, it is, in any case in Western Europe, in accordance with the standard, but for us, it is also a luxury. Secondly, you've even changed your taxes here when it comes to slaughtering pigs. You have here for those holding the slaughterhouses, now you've changed your fee. Of course, it's for those who read the material. Those who haven't read the material, they think everything's funny. Because they only come here to put in a card, justify this time, but that's it. You literally took those European standards. What's necessary in all this is some reality when it comes to taxes. Serbia's citizens will no longer be able to charge these taxis and make these commitments a financial settlement, because you have a simple logic -- you raise taxes, you increase the price of electricity, you increase the cost of living, and the salary remains in the economy at a much lower level than the republican average. Unfortunately, the reality is that these people who work in the private sector, they can't exactly follow these proposals and these projections financially.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65464	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65465	Yeah, everything's great, only if we don't grow salaries in the private sector and grow. About those things we're talking about and the good note, the taxes, the stuck-up, who was reading the material. Well, whoever was reading the material, he knows that it's not true that everything that's been said here is just piling up, that everything is just a bigger load. On the contrary, in a whole set of laws, we are talking about measures that serve as a discharge. I think that the MP Nikolic made an excellent observation, that not all those who said it was a burden, but measures that directly help both employers and employees to make it better for each other. That was on the subject, I think, of the law we discussed this morning. On the subject of the taxi itself, who was reading the material, great note, that knows -- some of the fees with this proposal have been abolished, some of the fees with this proposal have been reduced. Speaking of cars, that's not a bad subject either. Among other things, the town of Belgrade, along with that tour that was regulated in June this year and the second tour that arrived on the streets of the capital two days ago, totaled the state of the train park for 244 buses. Good thing, you'll agree, 70 in June, now 174. But, you know, to those who have a problem with everything, and here I think about these, there's a colleague Markovic, who only cares about pay, and that bothers them. Today, I see, they say -- that 200 and some buses, which is the largest individual purchase, if you look back at the city of Belgrade for years. That's not good either. And their biggest problem is, you know what, that's what these Gilas Alliance for Serbia say, which is about Chinese buses. So, what happened again, which we showed that when we do housework, we can be more successful than they've ever been, but their biggest problem is that it's Chinese buses and that technique came from that side. It's got that, ladies and gentlemen, a lot to do with these things we talked about here two or three minutes ago in total. You're wrong when you say that, that's said, we and such people finance you in any way, including taxes. We don't have anything to do with their alarm clock. Thanks to the fact that some of them became MPs in 2016, as they became, they still come to this National Assembly today only to the register. So, they don't participate in the debate, they criticise buses, they criticize relations with China, they even criticize the fact that the President of Belarus was here a few minutes ago, you heard some disgusting dictionaries, and all they care about is the cashier. However, when we mentioned them today, I would take advantage of this opportunity, I think it is good, to congratulate the complete Alliance for Serbia Dragan Djilas, but most of all Boško Obradic and the rest of the few others, the insults they have spoken in their common name, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Aleksandra Jerkov at the expense of Belarus and Lukashenko, I think that the largest possible message for all their followers, such as their foreign policy, such as their relationship with Belarus, Russia and our other traditional friends, of course, if these followers remain for the cure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65466	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65467	First of all, let me tell you, fellow, what we Serbian radicals are deeply convinced about these people you mentioned, I personally guarantee you, among other things, that they change those two hairstyles, no one would recognize them. Their role in Serbia's political life is just as much as mine and yours are in the world revolution. They only have the task of attacking a man who is the president of a country that has 10 million inhabitants, who comes here as a friend, from the heart, greets all of us, especially Vojislav Seselj, and then, because of his anger, because of jealousy, they don't know what they're going to do, and then they say the dictator says hello to a war criminal. Neither is true nor is true. It only says what their place is and what their place is in history and on the political scene of Serbia. On the sidelines. For this one person, I'm telling you, if you hadn't accepted blackmail from the American ambassador, you would never have been in this House. Never. And you know it well. I'm not saying this to honor your main guilt right now, but a man learns from his mistakes. That's how it is -- give a little finger, they want a hand. Secondly, persons who act contrary to the Constitution of Serbia cannot yet be sanctioned in Serbia alone. Those who advocate the Duke's republic, which is contrary to the Constitution of this state, are still sitting in this parliament. And it's quite acceptable in Serbia. Third, what's very important, and you've started this topic around the bus. Don't think, pal, that they have something against the bus, these or those. To them, it only spoils the deal or the land that they had before. They had to purchase spare parts, they had to deal with certain manufacturers, and that created their capital. (President: Bring the end, colleague Mircic. ) You know, there's a lot of buses in a Belgrade train park, and there's a lot of spare parts for those buses. You moved their suppliers with money, that's the problem, not that they have something against Chinese or other buses.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65468	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65469	I have to tell you, I agree in part. I'll tell you in which part, yes, in which part. First, as far as these people are concerned and their relationship with our traditional friends, according to Serbia's needs, I think it's all quite clear. What may need to be repeated from time to time, to make it clear to people, not to be lost somewhere in some fog of memory, that's the question of how one of them got to the House of the National Assembly. If you remember, and I believe you remember, that list of Dvori and part of the former regime, so, that DSS part, they called for joint support, to vote for them in those several polling stations where they voted again, a common, complete DS, Bojan Pajtic, then that Radulovic, enough, and all other parts of the former regime, including these Tadics in two or three variants. So, all of them then, and it's important that people remind themselves, stand behind the Ljatician Bosko Obradovic and his Dvori, invited their sympathies, their voters to vote for these people, so that they, as you say, enter the National Assembly. That might be important to know because now they're fenced, I see they're making some statements, like -- they're bothering each other, so some of the yellow ones don't get along very much because of Dvori, etc. They're all lying. They're getting along great. They showed that they are exactly the same in 2016 and that they have no objection to performing together, that they are very well supported and that they share these same values, whether it is the values of Marisav Petrovic or some others, I don't know, let them say that, but that they are the same, I believe them all. I disagree in that part that their problem with Belarus, Russia and the People's Republic of China is only money. I think that, in addition to the fact, of course, that money is notorious to them primarily in this world, the problem and their relationship with that part of the world, in general, and with the policy that Serbia is leading today, which is that we want to cultivate that side of our traditional friendships, to perfect, to raise to an ever higher and higher level. I think they're particularly in pain and burning the fact that we have this kind of technical, but also military-technical co-operation with these countries of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65470	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65471	I'm done. Today in Serbia, according to our guest today, four MI-35 helicopters arrived in the world. Then you can think of all this panic and all this hysteria that they show on social networks, in their media, wherever they come from. Four MI-35 helicopters, to hear the people of Serbia, so that they understand a little better what's going on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65472	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65473	There's one rule, ladies and gentlemen, which is that the Mafia only unites interest and money. The Mafia is in all spheres. In the political sphere, maybe it's more pronounced. When it comes to interest, and it's about money, you see how quickly they agree. But it's not the point, the point is that they're an expensive investment right now for Americans, for their bosses, and they're going to be regulated quickly. The Americans will soon see that they spend a lot of money, and they have no effect on them by themselves. We appeal, as we are expected by the elections, that you do not make the same or similar mistake again, so that under the pressure of foreign embassies or diplomats, you give in to the elections again. Why are we appealing to you from SNS? Because you have a majority, you have a responsibility. And not because of you and your interests, parties or interests of any political party, but because of Serbia. They're not interested in anything but money, but so we don't get away from this topic, there's a very, very sensitive subject here that we're talking about right now, a taxi theme. It may at first appear to be a reduction in price, to go hand in hand to citizens, to cut costs, however, the question is what is the ultimate effect? That's the question. You've got something that you said a little while ago that there's a pay increase in the public sector. We would all like to see no negative effects, to keep it that way, and to increase growth in the economy, GDP and increase wages further. But we must be very careful to look at it, because there is a period ahead of us, and now we have made some introduction, and there is a period of pressure on Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65474	You're bringing the end, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65475	They're investors from the West, so don't think that they have the economy and interest separate from their country's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65476	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65477	How much easier things would be if the pressures were just ahead of us. You know very well how long they've been going on. For years, we've practically been struggling with pressures. If the note was going in the direction that it would be harder and harder than ever, there you are, unfortunately, I must say, perhaps even right, but that we have already shown that we are able to fight with these pressures, I think we are. Effect, excellent note. That's the effect you see. That effect is precisely what we're talking about when we raise salaries and when we further attract these investments. We bring them in all the time and we don't put pressure on them, and the most intense ones may have gone exactly in the direction of us participating in the sanctions regime of the Russian Federation, while we're talking about it. You know what our answer was? Out of the question. Our principled position was – we do not participate, Serbia has the right to make its own decisions, Serbia has the right to run its own policy, Serbia has the right to determine its relations with other countries, regardless of whether it is the political East or the West. We from that principled position didn't even move for Yota. I think it's a big difference between today's Serbia and Serbia that we've talked about and that, rightly enough, you're always interested in money. It has nothing to do with who has the majority in the Republic Election Commission. We never had it, we never have it, we never looked for it. That doesn't stop us from winning. We were neither in 2016 nor in 2014 nor in 2012. But those effects you're talking about, that's what the people define. When a man knows that every day there is something more than the previous, so that the salary grows in both the real sector and the public sector, that he has highways that he could not have, then he votes and there is no composition of the Republic Election Commission that can affect things. Besides, these guys know that, too. And those who can't live with today having arrangements that mean that Serbia is getting moments, that it's got four new MI-35s. Just because they know all this and because they know it's a failed topic to talk about the composition of the RIK or any electoral condition, they run away as the devil from the cross, because they know that the people will redefine by whether it has any effect. You know what, they won't mind. The highways opened by Aleksandar Vukic will be driven, and they have never found them to be as easy and nice as they are now coming for their pay with raises that Alexander Vukic's policy has just provided, and they didn't care, which some would say, hurt them, to deal with anything but themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65478	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the line, the people sent by Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65479	Perhaps now we are in this debate on some right path that we Serbian radicals have since previously defined. We serve you only in a way as a reminder that the policy you are leading, which is praised by the pro-Western opposition, this policy is devastating for Serbia. It may suit you individually and whatever they produce you as Democrats, say you respect democratic principles, but it is always a disaster for Serbia and do not lose sight of it. When you are praised by those from the West, when they distance you from the Russian Federation, when they criticise contacts at the highest level with Belarus, you should know that they are preparing something that is bad for Serbia. Don't ever be in a dilemma. It was always a barometer to us. Belarus is a state that has 10 million inhabitants. You don't have to give up that market. There is a lot that Serbia can place on that market, as Belarus places here, we heard, among other things, tractors. But it has to be a long-term state policy. It should be time to reorient Serbia, and that is why we are telling you now, Serbia must be a cheap state, cheap in the sense that citizens can serve their obligations. The state must be run rationally by turning to the market by supporting all these trials over sanctions related to the Russian Federation. Look how much it pays. Do not live in error, clean, well-intentioned, that what they warn about taking sanctions, no one can impose such drastic sanctions on Serbia anymore while good relations with the Russian Federation. No one can threaten Serbia with bombings anymore, as long as there is Russian and other capital here from East and Chinese capital, so I don't forget. Be aware of that, there's nothing more, it's ancient history. We need to turn around in time where we have a real interest, of course they are and how they're based on emotions, on common history, on common origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65480	Thank you. Right on line, MP, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65481	The market, yes. So there is a well-known thing between us and we have signed an agreement that implies our participation in the common market of the Eurasian Economic Union. But the markets do, in that sense, and our determination to have the closest possible co-operation with EU countries. So we talked here, a few days ago it seems to me again on the subject, in total in this summation who will count how many times. This is exactly the market for us that represents more than two-thirds of the external market with which we have an exchange. It is an important thing, and it should always be taken into account, and our guest today, President Lukashenko, seems to me, and he very commended himself on that market and that part of the continent. I am sure that many good conclusions will be possible on the subject of what is so viewed as things, which is how they are set up and defined in their relations of policies by Alexander Vukic and the SNS, because they do not neglect any other side of the truth, because they do not neglect either partner side which is both in their own way to contribute to Serbia's progress, to develop further, provided, of course, that we set ourselves smart enough and that first of all, we take care of our own interest and there, that's a good point that you've given, there's no room for too much emotion. It takes prudence, it needs wisdom, it needs patience, it takes a lot of work to produce a result that is best for Serbia in a difficult complicated world. But for one emotion, there must always be space and one emotion must exist if you're involved in politics in any way, and above all, if you're in a position to enforce that policy. Serbia must be loved, and that may be the most important of all differences between Alexander Vukic, SNS and those mentioned today. If you have that kind of emotion for your country, for your people, then there's room and you show everything else. If that's not there, then everything else is completely free.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65482	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65483	Let's not go far from this part of the agenda. Here you have one concrete proposal within these taxis, Republic taxis, that's that you've introduced taxes in some way, some order when it comes to arms trafficking. You have precisely defined for production, for trade and for export, and that's something that is and how desirable. I wish it was before. Where good luck comes from, maybe some things that are related to certain affairs would be much simpler. You have one big problem, when I say you, first of all I think of you from the SNS, which is that inside the government, inside the coalition there are certain problems. These differences seem to be coming up more and more. The differences in government are between what is Serbia's interest and personal interests. Those whose personal interest comes first now in terms of money, spending unfavorable money, loans owed and guaranteed by Serbia, don't give a shit. They care that they are well-trained, that they have expensive wardrobes, that in this expensive wardrobe they appear on construction sites, at the opening of highways, among those workers who make up "the end of the end". As for the general political contradictions, well, you have inside the coalition something that is diametric. You have the Serbian Renewal Movement, you have coalition partners who remain unhindered against Russia and America. You confuse people with that, you just confuse them. You have, that I don't speak any further of all the problems inside and it burdens Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65484	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65485	Not that we have never denied, that it is true, that the SNS and the politics of Alexander Vukic are able to bring together seemingly different actors and political parties, if you want political ideologies. It's not at all controversial. It's true, it's absolutely true, there are those who prefer both the political West and those who prefer the east. There are also those who are, above all, nationalally defined and those who are fierce cosmopolitans. There are also people who are great fans of the Eastern tradition as well as people who show great sympathy and respect for NOB. It's all very clear, but you understand for sure why people like that get together? Because they have what, and that's the emotion I was talking about earlier. It is a message that Serbia loves itself, that it is working for Serbia, and that is what Aleksandar Vukic established as a principle. Whoever wants to participate in the fight, the work, the effort for Serbia to produce results for the country can participate in the fight. We never have to agree on different periods of history, but it is important that we agree on what Serbia needs today and what perspective we see for Serbia. About the plan to work together on this need and to be prepared to make this work arduous, day and night, but to provide the result eventually. We don't hide it at all, we, moreover, are proud of it, because when we said that only unity provides good results, and among other things, it's one of the messages and President Lukashenko today, if you listened carefully, and we mean it. People can forget everything that is their political differences if they are willing to fight for what is most important, and that is certainly the Republic of Serbia, it is certainly our country and our people. Since you wanted to look back on the questions of these false affairs that they're constantly trying to generate or somehow deepen these Gilas, the goddesses, the marines and so on. Well, and here I see a lot of sense in the effects, as you said, I see different data coming out in the media that the consequences of this hysteria they carry out both against Alexander Vukic and against the government of Serbia and different people of the SNS, and related to weapons and military equipment, seem to be several cancelled contracts, at this point the estimated damage measured at tens of millions of dollars. If that's true, then, I think, you and all the people in this country are completely clear on why they did it and whose interest is behind those stories, but generally behind the people of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65486	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65487	Thank you. It must be taken care of once when it comes to passing laws like this and similar. First of all, it has to be realistic to measure what the wage and purchasing power of the population is. There's something that shows up as a statistical average. The statistical average serves something other than this when it comes to the reconciliation of obligations in the name of taxis, in the name of taxes, in the name of contributions. Here is the basic idea, the basic intensities of the ruling coalition, or the government that represents it, or what they would say would be a personified by the ruling coalition to leave much more financial resources to the economy to develop. And there was a conflict of opinion with us, the Serbian radicals. We are not the Fiscal Council, but the parliamentary political party, the largest opposition political party. We're telling you that it could have been very different to do, as we told you it was perfectly logical to include, if it couldn't now infrastructure at the local level, such as sewerage, such as plumbing, could have been downloaded by a water network, it would have included a large number of operations and that would have raised GDP. You only have one problem. You want something that's on the quarter level to portray as something that's long-term. You show at the level of this quarter, or third quarter GDP increase over 4%, as something that's a record. It's only one quarter compared to last year. Here we Serbian radicals are much more realistic, we realize that whoever is in power of the sea and such means to be used in some way, to have this positive propaganda, but we had good intentions to Serbia, to give the public an idea of what it is, and not to pursue with you about some meaningless issues, such as the name and last name of some who are at the head of some opposition or some alliance. What do we care about them?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65488	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65489	I have to correct it. It's not about propaganda. It's not about positive or negative. It's about facts. So we're talking about growth. When we say that the growth of plus 4.4% is recorded on an annual basis, so it's not some quarter, but at the annual level of the previous year, it's a real result, the result that comes from international factors that measure, record and publish these rankings. It was one of the top ten results when it came to growth for the previous year. If we're talking about this, look what's expected now. We're going to get the final value, so we're going to compare it to what was shown at the beginning of the year as expected, but at this point it's expected to be announced at the beginning of the year. There was talk of growing by 3.5% this year, and you remember, like every year, but literally every year, the reactions to that were -- there's no way to be so, there's no way there's not going to be as many, there's not going to be three, as they told us for the previous year -- there's not going to be as much as you're projecting or expecting for a year before, and there's no way for that one, as they're telling us every time -- there's no way that there's going to be a budget on the karate of the year as you planned, and you're going to end up with that deficit, but it's going to be bigger. We, here, three years in a row, the fourth is this, we provide surplus in budget and growth. Last year it's going to be plus 4, and this year, it's real, it's going to be bigger than it was announced. These are things that have nothing to do with propaganda. These are the things that concern the results achieved. We don't have to, I agree here, to mention their names never to any of them, nor to this Gilas, nor to Jeremiah, nor to Bosca. We don't have to mention the name to any of them, but if they wanted to compete with this growth of 4.4 or close to four, as far as it's going to be now, they'd have to have the same or better, put it against our results and say, "Here, look, what we can do." You know what they only have to put on? Minus 3.1. It was their record at that awesome time. Of course, if they want to put something besides that, they have nothing but 619 million in Gilas's company accounts. Well, if you didn't know who it was and if I hadn't told him his name, if you'd heard 619 million, you'd know who it was. That's what they were interested in all the time, and for the rest of it, and that's the fourth thing I'm going to agree with, that's what you said rightly, what they care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65490	Right on the line, People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65491	The best example, and in some ways it serves as a reminder, and for all of us, this is what happens to one of the political parties that has been incontinent for many years when it comes to power both in the Republic and in the province and at the local level, and it has been called, and I say precisely, the Democratic Party. Dear colleague, let me tell you one true event that can serve science. Boris Tadic often went to Italy during his term as Serbian President, not for reasons to contribute something that would be good and useful for Serbia, but because he had a girlfriend in Italy. She was a highly-positioned diplomat within the framework of Serbia's diplomacy. (President: Mr Mircic. ) It's a true event. I'm just making an example of it. Look, something happened that Berlusconi, president of Italy, took advantage of. Since Boris Tadic suffered from these complexes to be called a beauty, to have an outside appearance, it doesn't matter what the content is, Berlusconi knew about it and you saw, there is this picture today, it can be seen when the Berlusconi President of Serbia refers to Mr Clooney. Tadic thought it was because of beauty. No, but his girlfriend was blonde, like Clooney's girlfriend was blonde. He made it clear that he didn't appreciate his knowledge either, that he was the president of the state, but that he was undermining all the petty personal interests, some passions. It's passion. You remember when the Secretary of Defense, the tall man who trained in CIA camps, took his hand and led him like a little baby and put him where he wanted to go. It's humiliation. This tells you that you must always keep in mind when you are in power and how you behave and what good you are doing to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65492	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65493	Okay, these things you just mentioned, I really don't have any knowledge, and that's why I can't even comment on them at all. But there's one thing we'll agree on. I think we'll agree that nothing like this is certain you've heard or seen at the expense of people representing Serbia today, and that's one of the good indicators of how big and significant differences are. It doesn't have to matter at all about people's names and last names and personal relationships between them, to stick to, say, taxi cuts, to stick to pay increases, to stick to the technique we're getting today, and we used to just destroy it, and that, you're right, it's just these people you named. For the details of their private lives, I really don't know, but that they were destroying the technique everyone knows. That's a fact. Let's just say that today we have roads and stripes and bridges that we couldn't imagine in their time, because I think that's more than enough stuff to define everyone in this country. In the end, you can tell by what you've gotten into a certain story, what you're coming out of that story at the end of the day. Says Aleksandar Vukic whenever they start with their lies on the subject – feel free to look at my property, my family, the rope, and you will see that we had nothing more at any time after 2012 or 2014, however you will, compared to what we had before I stepped in, I got the chance to get older about Serbia. Nothing more, just less. Compare that to just one case, with that famous Tadic office president. Think of Dragan Gilas, of course. The man had, by his own admission, when he entered the political scene, when he became all-out in that Democratic Party that you mentioned, but unfortunately the citizens of this country and Serbia, 74,000 euros potentially earned, as much as they earned from their businesses in the Czech Republic. So it could have had only less than that, nothing more. Do you know what he ended his career with when people drove him out of his last position, and that was the mayor's seat in Belgrade? By the competent services with a recorded inflow of 619m euros on the accounts of his four firms, and by the personal wealth reported by that Gilas himself, I comfort 25m euros in real estate alone, he didn't say anything about what's on the account, what's underneath the pillow, what's behind the picture in the house. Only what he reported was 25m euros in real estate. I think it's more than clear to everyone to figure out how someone treated the state, the system he cared about, and in what way about himself and his boss and his pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65494	Thank you. We're moving on. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The Law on Republic Administrative Taxes and I will remind you that this article refers to the authorisation for the introduction of weapons and ammunition from the Republic of Serbia. There is nothing questionable about these actions being taxed by the Republic's administrative fees. However, the SRS considers these fees prescribed in the law to be high and therefore, with my amendment, I asked for their reduction. What is good in this member of the law that I have noticed and I must commend, that these taxes do not apply to those weapons and ammunition that serve for the shooting alliance, the shooting associations, the shooting clubs, and that is especially the additional reason I want to point out here right now that our athletes, our shooters are one of Serbia's most successful athletes, if not the most successful. With all the big world competitions, the Olympics, the world championships and European championships, they come back with medals, so that's one good thing. However, when it comes to weapons, we must always be careful. Whether it's a trophy, a gun, or another weapon, and it's best shown by this Krusik affair, which has been said a lot lately in public. Of course, it's not the subject of this law and I'm not going to talk about it. I'm saying no matter what, you have to take care of everything about guns and ammunition, because that's how sensitive things are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65496	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65497	Thank you. Dear President, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I would agree with the government's view on this amendment, to refuse, because we have heard a lot about the bill and agreed that it is really fine and that it is for the purpose of improving all our citizens. What I would like to add to this occasion and look back are some tweets published by Bastac Marko and Borko Stefanovic over the past few hours. Namely, Bastac Marko said they were not spontaneously gathered citizens protesting the opposition. These citizens are being organised today by a national emissary from Kruševec. She's drawing a target for Dragan Gilas. Borko Stefanovic says, "In the meantime, the SNS MP from Kruševec organises the drawing of a target headed by Dragan Djilas, a doctor, a politician, an MP." There's a picture of me and a target that says, "Jilas, don't kill Serbia," and in the center of the target, it says, "I'm a Vukic too." Well, gentlemen who call me, I can freely tell them that the center of the target says "I'm a Wolf" and I'm behind it, and I'm a Wolf and I'm free to draw a target for me and all those Kruševljans, and they're on a city walk last night where they've spontaneously gathered over six thousand. And I am proud of what over six thousand Krushevians have shown, clearly said "no" to Dragan Gilas's policies and all those who boycott the work of this Assembly. It has clearly said that they do not want the fascism policy they promote, and it has clearly condemned the NIN and "Today" headlines, where the target of the legitimately elected President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, is drawn. I feel free to tell them and I am Vukic and all those Kruševljani and all those decent citizens of Serbia. Clearly, citizens have shown that simply those who write these things, I don't know if I should call them, I don't know if the supporters of the SZS or the straightmen, mostly these comments and the statuses, make fun of all those people who spontaneously went out on the street last night, took a walk. They didn't use vuvuzuels, soundings, like 20 of them as they walked a few months ago in the streets of Krushevac, they were more in the way of people who wanted to walk through there and walk around with children than they did anything. They saw that they had no support and now they have a problem with the fact that six thousand Krushevians went out on the street to give support to a policy led by the President of the Republic, a policy of progress, the prosperity of the Serbian state. The only way these gentlemen who are calling me and my colleagues, to show that this majority Serbia, which clearly says "not fascism", and "to peace and prosperity and progress", is that if we are wrong, these gentlemen come out with a programme, a plan, a strategy of elections, and to show what it is worth. In fact, citizens will show it, but no, they can't get out of their mouse holes where they're stuck, because the plan obviously doesn't have, strategy and program at all. What I can still say is that they showed what they were worth in the 12 years they ruled. Most of them were either in the posts or were members of that party and showed how much they loved my Kruševac, I can proudly tell my Kruševac, but also Serbia. They showed and destroyed Serbia, led to bankruptcy. So that Mr. Bastac and Mr. Borko Stefanovic, let them ask these MPs, who receive their salary neatly, go to delegations everywhere they want, take their diaries, travel expenses, and do not come to work more than 300 days. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65498	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 and I have suggested that these fees should, in any case, be brought to a level that should be imposed on those taxis, because these taxes also burden citizens, and they also have a function to fill the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, what's good is this law combines fees from other regulations that were provided for earlier, so that's one positive thing. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of the ruling coalition, how is it possible that the ruling coalition is not taking any action to collect looted property by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were robbed by Democrats when they were in power? I'd just like to remind you because this is a budget function, the SARTID was privatized was previously, a billion and 700 million is a pity. Azotara Pancevo damaged through privatisation in 2006 80m euros. The factory was originally sold for $13m and $100,000 in 2006 for the Karbamid 2, which was part of Azotara, the plant produced ammonia and was actually to be released as one of the most modern in Europe. However, then criminals sold the Azotarina plant, the Karbamid 2 plant for 32m euros, and their book value of "100 Carbamid" was 45m euros, or dollars. Look at the damage. It is a shame to privatise "Luka Belgrade" 50m euros. Galenika, 34m euros. "C market" 29m euros. Keramika Kanjiza 15m euros. Exporting sugar to that criminal who got five sugars from Djindjic and paid only $29, then he imported 10,000 tows, so he repacked and sold it as if it were sugar produced in Serbia. TUNJUG has damaged privatisation and Serbian citizens are damaged at this firm only four and a half million euros. National savings bank seven million euros. As part of this privatisation, these DOS thieves, 2,280 companies were privatised. My question to you, gentlemen of the coalition, when will you take away property from these thieves? What did Putin do? He called the oligarchs and said – sit here, you'll do it either in Siberia. Now, gentlemen, it is time for these 24 privatisations, which are valued billions of euros, to be initiated by an emergency procedure through the law enforcement, and this is the responsibility of this authority to do, without delay, all to be charged with interest. You can't let this kind of robbery happen without the government keeping quiet. That's enough, you need to take action. If I were in power, I'd know what to do. If I were the Minister of Business, I would know what I would suggest to the government and what I would suggest to the National Assembly. Thieves would end up in jail, but I would strip them naked and take away all the property. What they may have invested, give them but no interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65500	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65501	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS Parliamentary Group submitted this amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Republic Administrative Taxes and we proposed amending Article 10. Article 10 of the Proposer of these amendments proposed an amendment to heading 33 relating to the issue of a licence to carry arms, the issue of an armed list, as well as the issue of a collection licence. The SRS is proposing a reduction in certain administrative fees and this is proposed to issue permits for carrying weapons instead of the current 900 dinars, it is proposed that there be 500 dinars in the future. For the issue of a collection license instead of 900 dinars so far, it is proposed that in this case 500 dinars be. For persons holding armed papers or authorisation for holding arms issued under the law which was valid until the date of application of the Arms and Ammunition Act, we have proposed a lower amount of administrative tax to be paid in addition to an application for the issue of the armed list, with a chip entering data on registered weapons with broken pipes and that of 1,800 dinars instead of 2,800 dinars, as the legislator wrote. We see that the proponent of these amendments stated in an explanation that heading 33 is changed because of compliance with the arms and ammunition law, and this is when the regulation is carried out, i.e. an increase in the prescribed fee. We consider the fees prescribed in some cases to be high, so for these reasons we have submitted this amendment. By accepting amendments to the SRS parliamentary group is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the amounts proposed by our amendments are more correct than the amount prescribed by the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65502	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65503	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the amendment to the Amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes has proposed amending heading 35 and this tariff number provides for a fee for the corresponding act of the authorities which have been refused an application for an appropriate visa. We have suggested a reduction of taxis under this heading 35. And when it comes to administrative fees, the SRS finds them inappropriate and unacceptable for all Serbian citizens to raise taxes in this way and, if we look at it, if we compare salary increases and pensions, which is why we listen to praises from the ruling majority for days and the increase in taxis is a much higher rate of increase in taxis. Is this how citizens are punished, because now for a duplicate of some document, 30% more should be paid? Although the state, among other things, is supported by taxis, we believe that there is no reasonable reason for these increases and that this increase in tax is unacceptable and the question also arises how did the bill promoter come to determine such large and administrative fees in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65504	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I think, is a matter of detective fees, private security, etc. I'd like a final detective to show up who can and who wants it seriously, and here, first of all, I mean the prosecution and the judiciary. Our people think that when you win the elections, that you are responsible for power and for justice, for the injustices which the judiciary delivers, because often the judiciary protects the guilty and punishes the innocent. And it's usually the power to do that, and in 2009 it's the independent judiciary, on the orders of these unfortunate people who are now boycotting the National Assembly, Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac, who here Borko Stefanovic has been hoarding into the stars, so now he's not doing well. I'd like someone among them to show up and have someone who could, say, examine the vessels, these big boats, not the boat that owns the Danube worker, not the worker who rests in Fruszko Gora, but those who have yachts and rest in the Maldives, the White World Islands, luxury destinations. To see how the winners of the transition, for example, Miodrag Kostic, who was just mentioned here, not only did he buy the yacht, means, through privatisation, as a lucky privatization winner, you buy the sugarcane for three euros, and then you still make a sugar affair, he did not repack sugar abroad, but to us. That's why the price of sugar in Serbia was 600 euros long, because the preferential price in Europe was also 600 euros. Sugar was almost twice as cheap in Bosnia. But they deliberately kept the price of sugar that all the production that Serbia had to export outside, at a preferential price, and then, that price was the same on our market, then sugar from the cane repacked us. But they caught him because they saw the balances produced and the sugar derived match. And our country paid the fine. I'd like to check out why such a lucky yacht winner registers in foreign countries so he doesn't pay taxes, why avoids the way it avoids N1 television? Why did you make millions and billions here through privatisation, and you don't even want to register a yacht on your own land where you made such enormous incomes? The damage they caused through the privatization of the combinations and the cooperative is enormous, because the stock fund was slaughtered, workers were fired. Our slaughterhouse and processing food industry works with 30% to 40% capacity. It is the second harmful effect of privatisation that has been carried out. The third harmful effect is to rob farmers, individuals, because through the purchase of cooperatives and combinations they bought and ransom stations, which the peasants privately produce, which is a gro manufacture, through control, through scale, through lies, etc., continue to rob them. So there are several negative effects of privatisation, i.e. the grabbing they have carried out. That's why I'd like private detectives to appear, and all these fines, to be questioned and punished, and to protect the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65506	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65507	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I asked, in my amendment, for heading 47, to amend item 1 or point 6 of that attitude. The attitude of the SRS is that these things have to be done in another way. This is a very important law, and there must be no doubt or abuse in its application. We've had cases that indirectly led to corruption in this area. Corruption has always been a major social problem for all regimes, so this government is no exception in that regard. However, there is no successful fight against corruption unless the authorities show by personal example that they are really ready to deal honestly with corruption, but how do we believe this if we know that many high-ranking state officials have at least come to their academic calling in a suspicious way? Cases of suspected diplomas of some state officials have never been resolved. Whoever in a suspicious way came to an academic calling is logically more prone to corruption than who came to that calling in a regular manner. As long as these cases are not seriously resolved, this will also reflect the amount of unpaid administrative fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65508	Thank you. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65509	We're listening today and it's a little hard to believe, boast that you've cut some taxes, as if you don't think the people know what a real tax is. Did you maybe cut your taxes on the signatures? Did you maybe cut the fees on copying orders, to copying overtures? No, I don't. You left it all to the notaries and notaries to tear the skin off their backs over those taxis, which are most often. What you've done as a bit of a tax reduction, it's said and not noticed, because basically you haven't changed the tariff numbers here in terms of changing the amount of taxis, you've changed something like that, you've reformed something, so it's also when it comes to, let's say, this heading number 98, where you're talking about the height of the arms export taxi, and then really here, when this whole tariff number is seen, you might notice some things that may have been missed during some previous period when that affair broke up in Krusik, which still doesn't have its epilogue, and it would be good to have, it would be good for the Serbian state, not to say, and because of you from the current and current government. The tariff number 67, among other things, refers to administrative fees for solutions required to determine the fulfilment of animal health conditions in animal breeding and holding facilities, slaughtering animals, etc. How bad are you doing this? You know, this solution pays a tax of 4.220 dinars, and believe me, it's not much. It's not much on the condition that your inspections do their job, but they don't, and that's why these terrible things happen, so it happens in the paper that tens of thousands of tons of meat, other food has been destroyed, so it happens that products are sold on the edge of the expiry date or with the expiry date. You're boasting that the inspection destroyed 20 or 30 tons of meat. The question is asked, logically, which concerns this people – how much of such meat is sold before it is discovered and how much of such meat has ended up in the meals of our people? So don't do any business seriously. You can talk as much as you want, you're superficial. You speak only of your mantra, as it is said in the people, who is it that the grandmother of the wrinkles is talking about. You just -- you built highways, corridors. Yes, it is, no one is challenging you, but a lot of things are vital to this people in life and life, and a lot of things you haven't done. This is the problem that we want to keep talking about from this place, and we want to include you in an even debate, but really on these topics, and not now I don't know how much to spread the topics. Today we had a visit from a friend of Serbia, a friend of the Serbian people. Anyone normal in Serbia should be proud that such a man came to the National Assembly. We Serbian radicals are really more proud that Mr. Lukashenko even came out of the protocol to say hello here, hugged our president, Dr. Seselj, because they are old friends. They're not friends who met somewhere on the sidelines of a meeting, they're honest old friends, the web of circumstances was like that, so they haven't seen each other in a while. On this side, you said that some tweets of these moral gromats, these Jerkov and Sande Raskovic Ivić, appear. Sanda Raskovic already wrote the other day that by accident, God forbid, someone asks, she would have banned Lukashenko, as a dictator, from coming to Serbia. This Jerkov says – Lukashenko, dictator, made out with war criminal Vojislav Seselj. They're ignorant. They're agents in this country. I don't know who that's not clear to anymore. Now, if I said what we used to say to be Ustasha assholes, someone would resent me – her, what I said to women. No, they're reptiles most common. In politics, we cannot divide ourselves into women and men, but only we can divide ourselves into patriots and those who do not love their country. This is exactly what the relationship to Mr Lukashenko and Belarus showed both this Sanda Raskovic and that of Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65510	Thank you. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30 relating to the level of settlement fees required for the determination of quarantines for imported animals, eggs for breeding and reproductive material of 3,220 dinars, as well as the amendment, or the addition of solutions in determining quarantines for those categories of 500 dinars. It remains unclear, however, why taxes are increasing even where the complexity of jobs has not been increased, hence the cost. By the way, I cite an example of how the state makes us respect the deadlines for replacing documents, ID cards, passports, driver's licenses and traffic permits. I remind you that nothing has changed, except for a deadline prescribed by the state itself. All in all, the issue of republican administrative fees observed in the wider context should be more seriously examined, as the prescribed procedures cause positive or less positive effects for citizens as well as for tax policy. Sometimes they're mild, sometimes they're extreme. The question for the legislator is to find the right measure. It is known that taxes can only be introduced by law. However, it remains unclear why. On the other side of the argument, you stated that the real base was contained in three former regulations. It's obviously the rest of the old consciousness, the taxomania, where taxes were introduced and abolished by sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65512	Thank you. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about guns, taxes. Just because of political opponents, they know that this is not done in the manner Gaitangjieva describes it as a Bulgarian journalist, the Gaitangjiev-Marinika axis. So you don't do it like they say. What they did brought Bulgaria's dedicated 80m-euro business industry. That's what Mr. Orlic said, and Krusik and our dedicated industry got 80m euros less. So we didn't close the deal, and we didn't close it because Bulgarians had allies, and now the press says that the owners of certain dedicated jobs in Bulgaria are closely connected to the buyer "Darekt Media" Dragan Gilas. So, the business partner of Dragan Gilas is also the partner of those who profited from the troubles of our dedicated industry caused by Ms. Marinika and Gajtanjiev, I think that's what the Bulgarian journalist is called, perhaps I haven't spoken well. If I was wrong, I apologize to both Marinika and the Bulgarian journalist. So, I think it's just a continuation of work, because everyone thinks the dedicated industry only produces weapons, ammunition for foreign countries. The dedicated industry works for our military technique, for our military, and if you destroy the dedicated industry, you destroy the military power of this country. I think that's their goal. What they started in 2000 wants to continue. So they left one broken MIG without a battery and that's what they left behind. Now against aircraft 14, so the entire squadron, MiG 29, is four plus. They are also against these helicopters that Westerners call "fire chariots". So they are against the military power of the Serbian state. They are used to, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, who allowed almost two soldiers to kill them in downtown Belgrade, yet to accuse them of committing suicide, which the 3D investigation completely denied. So it's about killing the soldiers they covered up at the top of state. These are the people who accuse our dedicated industry of not knowing what she did, that someone was exporting weapons, etc., and the weapons are being produced and exported. Our goal is to export more than we import, to have positive balances from all areas. This is where you talk about taxes for what it takes. So, you need: Registration in the Register of Persons and Tax 19,080 dinars, for the External Trade License 12,720, so you go to the following paper, the International Import Certificate, so you have issued the External Trade Authorisation, so you have amendments and additions to the Register of Persons, so you have about the identification of goods, so you have about the need to control the external trade for a natural person, for permission to carry out external trade in controlled goods, weapons of war equipment, and then you have a copy from the Register of Persons authorised to carry out foreign trade operations in the field of arms and military equipment, confirmation of registration in the Register of persons authorised to carry out foreign trade in the field of arms of 5,000 dinars, here I have also said some prices for the solution of consent for the export of technology, to resolve the confidentiality of the data from the permit, meaning of this alert, etc. A spy, who they want to turn into an alarmer, etc. It takes two, four, six, eight, ten, twelve, fourteen... One 16 different permits, solutions, etc. that someone might be involved in the export of weapons and equipment. Let me just say that those who made us an army instead of a well-armed, well-armed army and instead of a military neutral country and an army made a military neutralist, just so the viewers know that it's not exactly what Gyanjiev and Marinika claim, that it's an absolute lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65514	I thank my colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. You wanted the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65515	Right on the line. I think it'll be enough for those two minutes. Since, Mr. Risticevic, you have already mentioned this case and these questions, here are some official information. I think maybe that's the best indicator of how things are when someone says it, and these Gilas liars often say it, how today, imagine, someone wants to destroy Krusik, that one of us wants to ruin the intended idustry. Just to see the official data, as they say today, and to see how they were there by 2013, in 2014, while they ran these companies and that system, so that we can see who wanted to destroy it. Total income in 2018 compared to their time in 2013, in 2014 603% higher. So 11 billion 385 million over a billion and 200 and next year they had a little bit better, but that's exactly six times less than 2018. So that's how much someone's ruining today. The result before tax, their 2013 as far as I can see, minus 994 million, 2014 minus 263 million. In 2017 the result at the end of the year almost a billion. The year 2018 results at the end of the year are over 500 million. So, compare those minuses and these results now, and let's see who wants to destroy them. Made in dollars, again 630% better and higher in 2018 compared to 2014. What else is there? The number of employees, in 2018 3,230 people work, and in 2013 and 2014, is not some difference, 1,260 and 1,270. So, there's more than two jobs for people, and what pay? So we're not talking about how late she was then, and then there were 37,000 and some dinars, and today over 51,000 dinars. And then someone says these things -- we want to ruin something, we want to take something from somewhere. Then, at that great time of theirs, 222 million could have been paid into the budget, and today a billion and a half are being paid. They pushed in a billion-and-a-half blockade, and today they're talking about why the account is in the blockade. Look at the relationship between notorous liars, unsuspecting liars, pathological liars to everything they touch as themes. (President: I thank you. You can only see from these results. Last sentence. This is one company only. Look at the whole point. Then she couldn't dream of exporting the entire industry over 140 million. It wasn't that I don't know when. It was only ten years ago. We exported 800 million last year. This year, close to a billion. Mr. Risticevic, when someone looks at it on the side and says -- at least the 80 million you mentioned, to steal those Serbs, then it is clear to me who they will first find to be at his service, and Gilas, and Marinika and the rest of their Bosici.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65516	Thank you. Comrade Rističević, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65517	I won't be long, Mr. Orlic. I'm glad you confirmed in detail everything I suspected. I'm just asking Zagorka Dolovac - what is waiting for and why not take measures from the prosecution's jurisdiction, if he can't take action against Gaitangji's or against the marines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65518	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65519	This is where we cut down, Mr. Minister, tariffs for voluntary inspection of the ship without its own propulsion machine and with its own propulsion machine. We are for stricter control when it comes to this control to be carried out by the competent ministry, the equipment of a ship engaged in the transport of passengers, and above all in the course of the tourist season in order to meet all these conditions, of course, and to make it more stringent inspection surveillance for the simple reason that it is always on such vessels and the possibility of not meeting all these conditions and not being safe for all those passengers. Unfortunately, there are such examples in our environment. Last year, from Hungary, that boat situation in the Danube, and we who became attractive for the arrival of tourists from more countries in the world, since it is also a greater inflow of tourists than in recent years and in the Danube, in Novi Sad, Belgrade, it certainly must. It's all to be settled by law. You said you didn't accept it because you think this tariff system should stay. But what's the problem, Mr. Minister, are the others following the laws. This is the Administrative Tax Act, and in order for a company to start doing some work, if it's defined, it needs to meet a series of conditions next to these taxis. The biggest problem and biggest scandal is in the ministries of Zorana Mihajlovic. Here I have submitted this amendment regarding ships with this equipment, and do you know, Mr Milicevic, that this Assembly has changed nine times since 2012 the Law on port navigation in river traffic? Is that true? Yes, it is. It was all done directly by order of Zorana Mihajlovic because she, like this law, is a jukebox minister Zorana Mihajlovic, as one of her sponsors and those for whom she works for, is thus changing the law and not only that, but the enormous powers she draws from her sublegal acts does so. That is how the law, for ships, for sailing and storage of oil derivatives, made and fashioned to its extent, to work for the company of a certain Vanje Špiljka, the company is called "Mitanoli", will know Mr. Krlic and Rističević, and certainly Martinovic, the son of that famous communist business mobster Mike Špiljko, whom Vuk Draskovic carried a barrel, and was his writer. So, this Vanja Spiljak is in direct contact with Zoran Mihajlović, because she to no one else, Mr. Minister, you were also a military minister, not giving consent, if we exclude NIS as the largest company to store oil derivatives and to use what the law already prescribes some abnormal conditions that can be met, here is only the son of Mike Špiljka and those who give her a racket, as you said about Dusan Petrovic, and you did not agree. Dule 10%, there is a colleague from Sapac, and the question is how will this term end at the end of the government and what percentage will stand next to the name Zorana Mihalovic. Mr. Minister, it's not just enough to pass a law, but it has to be implemented so that no one is protected, that there are no privileged ones. You're the man who's trying to protect the workers as part of the labour inspection. You promote it, the rights of all those who are threatened. Imagine how some businessman in Serbia feels now? People who have invested in equipment, in ships, in infrastructure, when they know that Valja Špiljak, who is in direct contact with Zorana Mihajlović, is not some, but the son of this Mike Špiljka, can do such jobs and crush huge millions, and other economic operators cannot, and people have invested money. It's the same for you, here I am ending Mr. Milicevic, as with this coolant mob. They do whatever they want when it comes to buying raspberries, they have a monopoly, and other people who want to do it, well, you can't expand the freezer with that capacity now, you have to get new consent and everything comes from the same ministry again. So, we've told you nicely, to save both the government and ultimately all of you who work fairly in that government, out of shame, to drive that evil away from Zorana and to take it away from the place and the minister and vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65520	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here's a colleague of Jojic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65521	Mr. Chairman, that and the Members of Parliament, when it comes to this fee proposed by the law, it is in a position to fill the budget. I ask the question to the judicial authorities, in particular the prosecution and the courts -- how is it possible that the budget of the Republic of Serbia in one case of the bankruptcy mafia must pay the amount of the cost of the process 280 million? How is it possible to take in one case in the basic court i.e. A senior court in Smederjevo sentenced one person to 12 years in prison and released, with 12 million in expenses due from the Republika Srpska budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government must question the robbery and theft of the former, previous government dominoes. No more delays. In the "Sabbe" action then, 12,000 innocent citizens were arrested, and more than 3.5 billion dinars had to be paid from the Republika Srpska budget. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that the D.A.'s office and the D.A. didn't prosecute thieves from the Pancheva Apothecary in which damage occurred, abuse of official office, and robbery of billions and 30 million dinars? How is it possible that no one ends up in jail without the money being taken away? What were those thieves doing? They ordered drugs from the supplier. The suppliers delivered the drugs, and they sold drugs to other pharmacies, other users, and so on, instead of pouring the funds into Pancheva Pharmacy, then they took the drugs and money to no one. I am now asking the local government and the mayor of Panchev – will he, from the current government, have to now as the founder of this pharmacy to take over the debts? Six months ago, I asked the Parliament's question to the Minister of Health - what will be done by the resolution ministry and what will be taken by the Ministry of Justice and the D.A. and the courts to ultimately decide to get an epilogue in court? But now the citizens of Panchev will have to collect taxes for years and pay nine billion dinars in the name of a robbery in the Panchean pharmacy. That's why ladies and gentlemen, the current government has the right, but it also has the obligation to have many things combed, checked and that many of them are being prosecuted by workers and peasants and citizens of Serbia, by thieving privatisation. Therefore, the SRS insists and demands that the competent ministries, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, the republican prosecutor and the competent courts take steps to find the thieves behind the lock, but what I said earlier must be taken away from them illegally acquired property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65522	I thank my colleague Jojic. The 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65523	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the matter of prosecution, on the matter of the judiciary, I will support the previous speaker. I believe he as a lawyer knows the weaknesses of our judiciary. Just think of Majic. Guys, remember Majic, remember his conviction that the pedophile wasn't guilty because he didn't know it was a pedophile, that it was forbidden. That's amazing. That's what the Court of Appeals judge does. Remember his release of Albanian terrorists who killed 80 Serbs and 250 tortured, which he released by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Cassation Court assessed as a violation of the law by the judge. He's not cleared. So, the same judges from the Supreme Cassation Court are sitting in the High Council of the Judiciary, and that's one of the reasons why he has to be resolved. I'll give you another example of how it was done. The sugar affair they mentioned is not the only sugar affair. There are two sugar affairs, three. One was in the sugar market, another sugar affair, a sweet affair, for Miodrag Kostic and this yellow one was when he was exporting and repacking sugar here and the third affair was the end of 2011, when the decision by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic was bought from Miodrag Kostic 15 thousand tonnes of sugar or 15 million pounds for 13m euros, which is the price of 86.6 Eurocenti. Added to dinars, that's 103 point something dinar. And the price of sugar on today is still 63 dinars. So the reason is his profit, nothing caused, 40 dinars. At 15 million pounds, 600 million or five million euros. So, no sweat, no pain, five million euros, and that, of course, at the expense of the sugar beet manufacturer. If he's earned five million euros per trick, you know that he's got that moment and sugar and money, and he can't have that sugar withdrawn until today, because there's no disturbance on the market to take advantage of those 15 million pounds of sugar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65524	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on IMPROVAL You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarović, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Zoran Despotović, Ružica Nikolic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Marijan Risticevic, Tomislav Ljubenovic, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, Nikola Savic, Sreto Peric and Filip Stojanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65525	You have deleted in this bill the position that it says - when there is a right to real estate, i.e. to use or state from the position, Article 8, the property tax is paid to that right, or to use or state property, rather than to the right of property. Now, we ask you, what did you delete? You said it because you only do legal and technical redecoration with this law. We tell you that this is very bad and that this will create great problems for citizens in solving the problem before income management, in front of the tax administration. This would make sense if we accidentally had a normal minister whose jurisdiction is a cadastre, that it wasn't Zorana Mihajlović, so that our cadastre really works, that we don't have more than a year's blockade of the catastra. That's what she's talking about, there's some news sometimes, but Zorana's hiding it skillfully because a woman has media personal, not only these pro-governments, she has personal photographers, and cosmetics, and media. He's the only one who can't do his job. That's the problem that's gonna have citizens because you've been erasing this. I guess you, in the government, counted that Zorana Mihajlovic is a minister who does his job, so that the cadastre will do its job and will then be only an important property right. But, unfortunately, Zorana Mihajlovic took over every possible and impossible authority in the work of the catastra. People who work there say they've never worked under such conditions and under such circumstances. It's all in her hands, and that's why nothing works. This should have been recognised by the government of the Republic of Serbia and that would have been sufficient reason to stop it from being a minister, with millions of reasons for its corruption, crime, etc. But this, something that is related to the everyday life of people in Serbia, communication with the disaster, unfortunately, does not exist just because Zorana Mihajlovic is responsible for the catastastre, which is where she placed her man and taking money, people, and hats and fists. If you do not believe, ask the people you gather when you are somewhere at a rally, who come to applaud you, let them tell you in confidence how much money they have to give for each paper in the Katastre Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65526	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister of Associates, we have become a catastra as an institution of robbery. What Mrs. Radeta said, she's right, I'm in a position as a lawyer often to do jobs on behalf of my clients, and by going to the cadastre, I'm really fragrant and surprised how many citizens have to single out money to book what's on the contract or on the gift or on the purchase or the inheritance they had to hand over to the catastro. The prices of the catastra are high. This when Mrs Radet said and mentioned Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, I must say that she should resign immediately. One thing, I asked a parliamentary question -- how many cases are in the second degree of appeal by citizens, who are addressed to the competent state authorities, or to the resolution ministry. What turns out, because citizens wait five years for their complaint to be resolved in the second degree? Thirty-six thousand items were attended by Mrs. Mihajlovic in the drawer, and the citizens had to suffer and wait, not to exercise their rights and not to regulate certain property matters and do the tasks necessary and urgent. In fact, five years had to wait. When the question was asked a year ago, then Mrs. Mihajlovic pulled 33,000 second-degree items out of the drawer, so she referred to the cataster and the cataster found himself caught in wonder what to do, and the citizens began protesting and asking for the right to make timely and timely decisions of the catastra. Only three thousand items were found at the catastrophe unscathed in the second degree. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the catastre has become arrogant. He did not function as he had been before, and the minister in charge, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, she did not do her job here, she was promoting herself in the ministry, she did not go to any of the cadastre, she did not receive any citizen who was struggling to reach certain rights, whether through inheritance, whether through gifts, whether through purchase. Whether there are enough workers in the cataster, the question arises. Therefore, the catastra must establish working and efficient relations, and also the resolution ministry, the resolution minister must resign not only because of this, but also because of the 300 million that the Americans had to give to the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65528	Thank you, colleague Jojic. I've allowed you to speak longer for one simple reason and it's not my business to interrupt the MP, but the information for the sake of it, the SRS parliamentary group has no longer any time left but the time of the authorised representative, two minutes and 43 seconds. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65529	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 3 which is being changed to an existing Article 12. We have submitted an amendment to the property tax not to be paid on immovable property in the possession of traditional churches and religious communities which are intended and exclusively used for the pursuit of religious activity. The Serbian Radical Party was against the Law on Religious Communities by Kostunica's government, when many were given the opportunity to register, so we now have 21 small religious communities registered. The Serbian Radical Party respects only traditional religious communities defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we advocate to abolish the establishment and functioning of those sects whose teachings promote not only the obligation to give huge material resources to sect leaders, but also, as is particularly dangerous, propagate the most different destructive, often suicidal ideas among their subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65530	Thank you. Comrade Despotovic, you say the system was wrong. There's no problem. There you go. You have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65531	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Chairman. I checked in, but the system probably failed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, the SRS asked for Article 2. The draft law deletes, on the grounds that the proposed amendment does not determine in a good way the basis of the property tax for the obligor who keeps the books. In the past, this law has suffered a lot of changes and additions, and in an explanation for the adoption of this law, the legislator stated that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is contained in the need to reduce administration in relation to immovable traffic, which would mean that the adoption of this law solves the problem in the best way, because it is a legal matter that can only be changed and complemented by appropriate amendments and additions. In addition, the establishment of tax-legal matter by law, you stated that the contribution to legal certainty also provides transparency in the conduct of tax policy. The Serbian Radical Party is asking a perfectly logical question – is all this you have stated in an explanation for the adoption of this law appropriates reality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65532	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65533	I'm about to refer to this story by my colleague Nikolic. So, Mr. Minister, Mr. Milicevic, this problem she was talking about is really big. You must, as a Serbian Government, join the amendment of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities and bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. During Kostunica's government, I don't know if Risticevic was a national MP at the time, but Martinovic certainly did, their minister of religion, having had a special ministry, a certain Radulovic, as his name was, can't remember, came to the National Assembly with this dangerous bill that traditional religious communities, which were otherwise meant to be as such and to be defined and counted in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are equated with this so-called so-called. Small religious communities, and 21 have been registered in Serbia so far, according to the Kostunica law, and have the same tax of liberation as these traditional religious communities. What are the traditional religious communities in Serbia? It is the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Slovak Gospel Church, the Reform Christian Church, the Evangelical Christian Church, the Islamic Religious Community and the Jewish religious community. Everything else, Mr. Minister, is truly scandalous, that for the rituals of worship this tax release is foreseen, for the objects of these purposes, and they register, as given to them by this Kostunica law which these yellow ones supported, and that was in that vacuum in 2007, who they support and how they make government, that they can use tax reliefs, those who recruit our children. Fortunately, please, did you have such cases in your dioceses, and on the priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Do you believe it? It happened in the Woodland diocese. The priest goes to worship, and that's where they usually hang around the church and propagate it, so I don't use these expressions that aren't suitable for this place, and at all, I'm not going to use them as a Christian and a Orthodox. So, please, Mr. Minister, whether any ministry, and now it's the competent ministry of Mr. Ruzic and the Ministry of Justice, deals with this, because many of them work for foreign intelligence, are also tasked with foreign forces here, which in this way act to poison our youth. And even a life that's so ruined, it's really terrible. Here I am, Mr. Milicevic. What else is the other essence of this amendment, and it has nothing to do with this question? It's liberating its agricultural land that's flooded because it's now riverbed. When land erosion was carried out because of the Peasant Mafia, also supported by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, then people were flooded with fields, so I'm really interested in how the lady would do in the valley and in the West Morava River, in my village of Katrga, in the Obrva, etc., conduct an expropriation process for this new corridor and highway where she crushed 300m euros, when these fields are now underground and when people are supposed to pay taxes on what is under their river and riverbed, because the gravel mafia did all this to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65534	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65535	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. To the 6th proposer, he wishes to amend Article 27 of the basic law. Otherwise, Article 27 of the applicable law defines provisions relating to the tax base. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to give up these changes because they are being introduced in Article 27 of the basic law provisions relating to public notebooks. The applicant also suggested adding a new item 3 after the existing position 2 in which, among other things, it writes – when the obligor does not have a obligation to submit a tax application, in accordance with Article 34 of this Act, the deadline laid down in Article 2 of this Article shall start to run from the date of surrender to the public notary, or to the tax authority, evidence of the importance of exercising the right to tax exemption which the tax authority cannot obtain by exchange of data between the national authorities, etc. The amendment expresses the position of the SRS, which is that we are absolutely against any business being entrusted to the public notary. The current law in Article 27 clearly recognises the competences of the tax authorities, which is a state body, and thus should remain. The government must look into the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and make laws in the interests of all citizens, as well as in the interests of the state of Serbia, and not in the interest of individuals, in this case, persons engaged in public-book work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65536	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65537	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, property reporting, property reporting especially for politicians and the Anti-Corruption Agency is the most important thing, now the media. Now imagine when someone after Djindjic's murder manages to infiltrate the DS, gets a public office, first in Tadic's office, then the NIP minister. Imagine, they put a goat to keep the cabbage. A national investment plan, and National Gilas sees it as his own. Well, then he becomes a thief, a mayor, or better yet to say "stealer." Connect public function to private business. In private business, companies earn 619m euros, report assets for 25m euros, incomes 619 and profit 100m euros. In doing so, thanks to his pooling public office with private business, he is making a 1.2 billion debt in Belgrade, in public office, and in private income of 619m euros. One more thing, now the story of freedom of the media, he, who, through advertising, had the right to advertise the most famous brands, thanks to his taking over the advertising market RTS, Studio B and other public messages. Then that's why he controls all the media. Because if they're bad at jilas and Tadic, if you're oppositional, like you have five, six printed media and a few televisions today, then you can't get a commercial, then you're threatened financially, and you can't write anything against Gilas, who has combined a public function with private business and hundreds of millions of euros in income. So I think it's time to examine what he's been doing, so that sometimes in the future he doesn't, God forbid, go back to power and do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65538	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65539	When it comes to this law, he somehow contributes to defining as accurately as possible when these tax obligations arise when it comes to property. It also defines when and on what basis the obligation to pay the property tax ceases. We in Serbia have a lot of these paradoxal situations, and they relate to property and paying taxes on that property. We have people who are officially recognised as millionaires in public life, and when you look at his tax obligations for all the property he has, after all, and he's making no small money, then that's something that's minimal. These are some contradictions, which is thanks to the practice, where in practice we have that, no matter how much the property is available, they have found, as they would say, holes in the law, and by avoiding paying taxes, in fact, harming the budget and the state of Serbia. That should finally end up, as we say, people who are rich, when it comes to capital, and on the other hand, when you look at their receipts, they're minimal. Then there's the logical question of how with so much property he doesn't pay real estate tax, or how with so much wealth that he has minimal income. A fortune, of course, in real estate and everything. This should be addressed, not only by this law, but also by some procedures that involve the processing of certain cases to get their epilogue in court. When it ends as it does not go in favour of such persons, it will become a rule and others will also be disciplined and reconcile their obligations, and will report property according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65540	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65541	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of property tax. In this amendment, I asked for the removal of this member. This article is being associated with public notebooks, and that's why I asked to delete this member. The Serbian Radical Party believes that no state business should be entrusted to public notaries, but that certain courts and other state institutions are responsible for this. Therefore, our view of public notebooks is identical to that of public executioners, and that view is well known to the public. So both public notebooks and public executioners are institutions, though not introduced by this authority, but has done nothing to eliminate them even though a large number of Serbian citizens complain about their behaviour and suffer the consequences. So I think this amendment should have been accepted by the government, but you've decided to do so, and the citizens will decide what will be and how it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65542	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65543	We have submitted an amendment to draw attention to the SRS' disagreement with all these being transferred to the notaries because it costs the citizens of Serbia a lot. We have been working very seriously today and we have had, among other things, a very serious and friendly visit to His Excellency Mr Lukashenko, who is an honest friend of Serbia and the Serbian people and an honest friend of our President Dr Seselj for decades. His visit to some moral freaks caused some strange reactions. So they appear on social networks with findings that it is an autocrat, dictator, and then these moral freaks by Sandy Raskovic Ivić, who is otherwise a Ustasha spy in Serbia and this Aleksandra Jerkov, who with all CIA schools, CIA spies in Serbia, joined an hour, two hours ago and Bojan Pajtic. It says to him, Mr. Lukashenko autocrats. And do you know what Bojan Pajtic is famous for in Serbia? By the way, everyone forgot about him like this for some serious stuff. He's known for two things. One is why he should have been in prison long ago for a serious robbery of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" he robbed along with Boris Tadic. So there's a lot of information about it, but time doesn't allow me, and it doesn't matter that we're talking about it so much right now, and Bodrum is the third. Yes, Bodrum means stealing in the National Assembly, voting at a distance, and will remain famous for what he did, or for having a doctorate that no one has ever seen. So there are two things in Serbia that no one has ever seen. One is the desert solution of the cheerful widow Ruzica Djindjic, no one has seen another specimen, and she does not know how much she has inherited. A second act in the state of Serbia that no one has ever seen is Bojan Pajtic's doctoral dissertation. Imagine now such moral giants as those three Serb traitors, the traitors of the Serbian state, have something against which Serbia is visited by friends of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65544	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65545	So wherever public notebooks appear, we have interventions on these members of any law, but here we want to say something else. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the income generated by the state and local self-government units from the property tax is very large and that it was 45 billion dinars in 2018. It's interesting, and that's where I'm going to show you a relationship of mediocrity. We will compare this data with the average income in Serbia. One Belgrade citizen paid this property tax of 7.924,000, that was the biggest property tax. It has over 3,000 square meters of living space, where apartments and houses are located and about 400 square meters of garage space. That citizen in Belgrade who paid at least, that's 800 dinars. If one average was performed, it would be that citizens in Belgrade pay an average of 3,962,000 dinars. It is the same as the average income of 500 euros. Or that he paid at least from that average, he's smaller by 4,953 times. They're averages, they're indicators that you're very often dealing with. There's a shift, let me say it one more time, but we don't always have to stick to it blindly. There is another interesting fact that the government will not consider and consider. If it happens to be late for paying the property tax, then the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia, which is 2.25, is increasing by another 10 index points. So the interest for late payment of the property tax is 12.25%. It would be interesting anything the government will do with a problem that has a "Sava Center" where it has about 6.3m euros in debt based on property tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65546	Thank you, colleague Perich. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65547	The tax administrations of towns and municipalities in Serbia are doing their job correctly in the town of Kragujevac, although it is an absolutely catastrophic situation in almost all businesses and in the one that was united by Radomir Nikolic by abolishing five companies, which had their original and very important function as an undertaking for the construction of the town of Kragujevac, I cannot say, well, it is also one of my own personal experience that the tax administration, or administration, is performing solutions and delivering them to citizens of the tax on property, is not doing the job properly. It's because there are some people sitting there again who have managed to survive because they have that knowledge, and this unfortunate mayor of ours has not dared to change them. However, in many other cities in Serbia with such changes to the law, Mr. Djordjevic, these tax authorities will not be able to cope. This article, which we now propose an amendment, provides that a person, physically or legally, who has a residence or a seat, for example, in Kragujevac, who gets that person for inheritance, for a gift, in any other legal way prescribed, some long immovableity in five cities in Serbia, or two, or even in one, does not matter, tax application can be filed by place of his residence. It's absolutely inconclusive. It would be if everything worked out, by e-Government, by tax returns, by clicking this button. Do you know that tax authorities in local self-government units can't properly classify and determine, it's huge property, what belongs to some company, what belongs to some legal person who no longer exists, what belongs to enterprises that have long been liquidated, etc., and even bankruptcy managers have problems determining some property, and only now that all this is happening with the restitution that you support, which these yellow ones voted on, will only create one general chaos. Of course, all this has to do with the Catastre or the Geodical Administration of the Republic of Serbia, which is under the authority of the Ministry of Zorana Mihajlovic and the director, as his name is, whether Bora was, is mainly called Draskovic, who cheers and dresses Serbia's cathedral. What Mr. Jojic was saying, so many times we mentioned it in our discussions, these are unsolved items, over 40,000 of them and people have problems, both in property-legal relations and in inheritance. Not only that, here is Mr. Milicevic, because you will vote for it in the Voting Day, in such a way it will really create a problem for tax authorities in local self-governments, where you will make money for another caste in Serbia, which is public notebooks, or notaries, which, that is, will give them the right to take huge money from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65548	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. With this amendment of mine, I asked that the said article be deleted. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that any job should not be entrusted to public notaries, i.e. they must be abolished. We are witnessing that a large number of abuses have occurred in this area where the state was the greatest loser. Of course, I don't want to generalize this. There are people in this area who do their job with honor and security, but here the main word leads to a narrow circle of people who are interestingly connected, and most often accomplish their interest by being associated with some authorities. How many times from this post Serbian Radical Party MPs need to repeat that public executioners, including public notebooks, are causing enormous damage to our citizens. The Serbian Radical Party, who knows which way it repeats that the state authorities are only in charge of this type of business, that you insist on refusing our amendments will not prevent us from considering the laws and writing amendments where we believe that the text of the law can be corrected. Practice has shown that we've always been right. Unfortunately, thanks to the authorities, citizens have not benefited from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65550	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 15th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65551	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, property application. I continue to insist on this poor Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Gilasu, to take one prosecutor and check the Ada Bridge, underground containers, King Alexander's Boulevard and all his other affairs, especially with advertising, with his work on the media market. A lot of this country has followed. A lot of reforms have been delayed. Isn't that right, Mr. Orlic? A lot happened just because this rich guy, this tycoon controlled the state RTS and all the other private, electronic and printed media, thanks to the commercials. So he had seconds cheaper than RTS. If you buy from Gilas for a second for RTS, she's cheaper than if you buy the same from RTS. It was the same for Pink, for Studio B and for all the electronic and printed media. Printed electronic media that were not at the will of Dragan Gilas, who miswritten Jeremic, Tadic, Gilas and Sutanovac, who had to, despite their knowledge of them all, write nicely about them, all who had not been able to get an ad, couldn't get money from the advertising market, and in such a way they were left without income or had to listen blindly to Dragan Gilas, who had submitted his public office to a private business and in such a way income of 619m euros, with absolute control of the media who were not allowed to write about joining public functions with the private business, which he kept doing until the fall from power. I think his property, Zagorka Dolovac, must be searched in detail, because that's how he stopped the change of government, the control of the media. The opposition today has a series of electronic and printed media - NIN, Today, Time, Sunday, Blic, N1, Nova S, Sport Club etc., 13 pieces. At that time, the opposition had nothing. No media was favored precisely because the media market, the advertising market, which is absolutely through the media controlled by Dragan Gilas and acquired enormous property, and journalists worked for 100 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-03-0.u65552	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, this would end today's working day. We continue our work tomorrow, so on Wednesday, December 04, 2019, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
