ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-1.u52968	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the government, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the twenty-first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. This special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Parliament of Georgia, His Excellency Mr. Iraqi Kobahidze. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself, His Excellency President of the Republic of Georgia, Mr. Irakli Kobahidze. In addition, I welcome other respected members of the Georgia delegation, members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia who attend today's special session. I now ask His Excellency, President of the Parliament of Georgia, Mr. Irakli Kobahidze to speak to us. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-1.u52969	Madam President of the National Assembly, dear members of the National Assembly, respected members of the government and dear representatives of the diplomatic court, it is my great honor to address you from this place that represents the center of political events in this beautiful country. On behalf of the Georgia Assembly delegation, let me thank you for your warm welcome and welcome. At the very beginning, I would like to thank Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, for her personal contribution to strengthening ties between our two countries. Her visit last year, the first in its bilateral visits, and also at the inauguration of Georgia's presidents were extremely fruitful and beneficial. The relationship between our two countries is based on a common and continuous commitment to the common values of freedom, democracy and peaceful development. More importantly, these relationships are further strengthened by the principles of territorial integrity and sovereignty. We firmly believe that questioning such fundamental principles of international law is unacceptable, we are taking the first steps in this new chapter of our ever closer relationship in order to get to know one another better and learn from one another. We started political dialogue, set up an intergovernmental business commission, tomorrow I will open the first Serbian-Georgian business forum, as well as the country's honour consulate in Belgrade. We exchange high-level visits between our governments and our congregations. That is why we believe that there is great potential in many sectors and because of these activities we hope to speed up contacts between people and business people so that our countries can progress. We have productive cooperation when it comes to public services and this helps us to give access to all citizens and to increase transparency and efficiency of public institutions. When it comes to lifting visas for our citizens, it will improve co-operation and tourism, but it will also improve the relationship between people, because every tourist is an ambassador to his country. We are determined to transfer this dynamic to our relationship in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, Georgia has a strategic position both in economic and peace terms and this status is very important for international security and architecture. Georgia's position gives Georgia a wonderful opportunity and commitment and so we understand Georgia's role in the region. Our previous experience shows that we will take this role and contribute to the region and to global stability and security. We do this in a number of ways, we support regional cooperation in bilateral and multilateral forms, we have established a close partnership with Ukraine, Moldova, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Armenia, and more importantly, our armed forces are present in dangerous places in the world and are sacrificed for global peace and security in the world. However, we are committed to continuing our work on a better future for our children. The Republic of Serbia plays the same positive role in the Balkans, the Balkans region, and we share many similarities, and thus we need to connect better, connect these two regions to speed up economic co-operation. Dear colleagues, Georgia is seeking EU membership. We included this in our constitution to highlight the importance of this for our country. So our policy is peaceful, that's our people's decision. Most Georgians support Georgia's EU membership. In second place, we believe that this is also our civilization role and our culture and our tradition. In third place, we want Georgia to find its place among the free countries, because we can also create better prosperity and security for our country and for all our citizens. We are proud of the dynamic progress Georgia has made over the past few years. We, too, apply the co-operation agreement, have joined the economic community, the energy community. Also, the abolition of visas by the EU is very important for the citizens of Georgia and this is the most tangible progress Georgia has made. This is not only of practical importance to Georgia, but also gives strong political support to the EU for Georgia and our efforts. It was also a reward for the commitment of our government, our society, our Parliament and our citizens. We continue the strategic dialogue with the EU and discuss important matters when it comes to defence and security. We also want to achieve better integration with the EU and we have developed an ambitious project that will lead us on this path. Such an approach will ensure that Georgia is ready when the time comes to make relevant political decisions. The Serbian Parliament has also done a lot on Serbia's path to the EU and we appreciate the co-operation we have with Serbia and which is leading in efforts to join the EU. Our progress is based on the reforms that we have introduced in our country, because this was a condition for further progress and in this sense our country has become an example of fundamental institutional reforms and democratic changes. Democratic changes are important for our stability and for our prosperity. We have also applied an ambitious change agenda, to give every citizen the opportunity to advance and to all groups of people who live with us, to give them the opportunity to develop in the best possible way. Georgia thus headed towards greater institutionalisation and greater parliamentary democracy. We believe that parliament must become the loudest in our policy and prevent the emergence of dictatorship on long-term pathways, to prevent political polarisation, radicalisation and to institutionalise political dialogue and strengthen legislative supervision for a more efficient government. Our Parliament is doing its best to serve our citizens and to be responsible, to involve citizens in its work and to strengthen innovation and the best possible approach to these problems. Also, we have joined the Open Government Initiative, for the period 2017-2018. And we won that award in 2015. We also mark the 100th anniversary of parliamentaryism in Georgia, and for the first time in Georgia's history 100 years ago, the first session of the constitutive assembly that held the will of the people was held. Despite short independence, it hit the foundations for the Republic of Georgia and gave a significant legacy used today by the parliament of Georgia to continue traditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Georgia has created one of the best climates for investment and a transparent business environment, which has produced very important and tangible results. Preliminary estimates for 2018, growth in the economy was 4.7%, and our growth in the last three years was 4.1%) every year. The World Bank's report ranks Georgia sixth in ease of business. This says a lot about the efficiency and openness of the business investment environment in Georgia, and now we are eight in Europe. Georgia pays particular attention to improving its services to our citizens throughout its territory. That is why we have also received awards from the United Nations and many other organizations that recognise the innovations introduced in the public domain. Also, the provision of public services has been recognised, and we have received a public procurement service award because of our online system. Many figures speak of a friendly and efficient business climate in Georgia. Further development of ties is also of strategic importance for Georgia and the entire region. We are trying to discover our role that we once played on the way to silk. We are the only country with free trade agreements at the same time with the countries of the European Union, the Association of Independent States and the EFTA, Turkey and China. As a result, Georgia is a reliable transit partner and a key link and a participant in the largest strategic projects and initiatives. Tourism is an economic branch that enjoys a huge rise in Georgia and provides opportunities for investment, especially in the coastal part, as well as mountain and ski resorts. Last year, 8.5 million tourists visited Georgia, which alone has only four million inhabitants. We welcome all tourists and therefore we felt and there is a tradition that tourists are a gift from God. We want to open and achieve as much as possible in our future, but of course it will not be possible as long as the conflicts in our country continue to endanger regional security and stability. Despite all the difficulties, the life of a young Georgian man has been extinguished in the occupation of Abkhazia and before that we have mourned the death of Lord Odhozori and Tatunashvili. The growing military presence of raising fences of barbed wire and other artificial obstacles along the line of occupation, limited movement, illegal detentions and abductions, bans on teaching in the native Georgian language, ethnically motivated serious violations of human rights and widespread impunity in these areas are constantly destroying the lives of our citizens. Despite all the difficulties, Georgia is committed to the policy of reconciliation and convergence of populations separated by conflict and occupation, through dialogue, building trust and interpersonal contact. We give residents of occupied areas the opportunity to fully enjoy the advantages of the development of Georgia and the process of European integration. Our new peace initiative, a step towards a better future, is another significant effort in this regard. We hope that one day we will reach an agreement with our sisters and brothers from Abkhazia and Ossetia. We will be patient and pragmatic and prone to peace policy. At the very end, dear friends, Georgia and the Republic of Serbia have much more similarities than it is with the basic principles of international law or our common desire to join the European Union. The roots of the history of our societies are deeply pervaded by the Orthodox faith and tradition and the heroism of our ancestors who fought for the freedom and independence of our countries. This cultural closeness, despite the geographical separation, is establishing a great base for close cooperation and understanding between our countries and our two peoples. I want to give an opportunity and make a contribution to a better future. The future of the Republic of Serbia and Georgia is within the European family of nations and we believe that our common desire for a united free Europe that lives in peace will become a reality. God bless Georgia, God bless the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-28-1.u52970	I thank His Excellency for his address. I conclude the twenty-first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly.
