ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Interior Minister Stefanovic, Dr Nebojsu, which someone here would say. Since it does not answer my previous questions, and I am still doing my research thoroughly, I am now asking him a new question – why does the Ministry of Interior allow Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic to buy the whole of Novi Pazar? Here, a few details. A pitcher, write it all down. The restaurant company Lipa from Novi Pazar as soon as Rasim Ljajic came to power in the old Serbian town, was sold for 1,250,000 euros. Lipa had dozens of its facilities in Pazar, where, for example, only the Vrbak hotel is worth a few million euros. So, multiple below the cost of the company was sold. Bought people Rasim Ljajic for his account, because he, you know, isn't so stupid that he keeps all this stuff that he makes in various crimes, so that the mice can eat or one day take it away, he smartly invests in real estate. The Market Motel or Stari Ras is also worth a few million euros. "Pazarište" extends to several hectares of land where two rivers pass, the Raška River and the Sebečevska River, and Rasim Ljajic took the most attractive facility in the vicinity of Novi Pazar for himself. The "Lajar" company extends to over 50 hectares of land. It's on the way to Novi Pazar-Raška. The company is run by the name of Muja Ljaljar, and that's the man who's been fighting his whole life to barely survive. He had one tractor and he was pulling stone, sand and gravel from nearby rivers. Now he bought for Rasim Ljajic's account and played the owner. Of course, the real owner knows. He knows the whole New Market. A pitcher might not know. He rarely goes to New Market. He's busy here with some... Are you a doctor, Butcher? (Muamer Bacevic: The famous...) You did? Okay. (Chairman: Please, no personal address) Here, a little more. It is now the strongest firm in this part of Serbia. He owns registration companies for all motor vehicles, parking space for thousands of trucks and buses. The most modern car washes, trucks and buses and all these properties are located next to the main road of Novi Pazar-Raška. All this million-dollar property is owned by the largest drug lord Rasim Ljajic. Rasim Ljajic hired all the families. He gave Muji Ladjar a big salary, of course, as a reliable man, and this Mujo doesn't even have a primary school completed. The construction company was sold for a million euros, and one firm, Rasim Ljajic, bought for the bogeyman and is also headed for the other. The pond "Vojin Popovic" in Novi Pazar also bought Rasim Ljajic and told the whole of Novi Pazar. It's the latest thing. I'm gonna have to go to New Market soon to ask around more people how these things are. What, I can't go to New Market, is he a pitcher? Muamer Bacevac: Bujrum, welcome. ) Thank you for the expressions of hospitality. I was in Sarajevo the other day. (President: You're finishing up, Mr. Seselj. ) So, I warn the Home Secretary that a lot of this information has been collected, that the police must not remain on their hands, and that he is personally responsible, if he does not know, for all of this. It's a shame for one such minister to know about these things before he does.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52595	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52596	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on 4 March 2019, a freshman from Novi Pazar, 20-year-old Ernad Bakan, crossing the street at a pedestrian crossing in Zemun, crossing the street in Zemun, is a picture, one car stops, and the other, moving in slow lanes, running into him at a high speed, throwing him a few meters ahead. This terrible scene shocks Serbia. Two days later, the unfortunate guy dies. How difficult this accident was and how much of the driver who killed Ernad was driving is seen from a video that orbits social networks, which was recorded by an anonymous passer-by from Zemun. It's a recording, gentlemen of the Parliament, of which blood in the veins is iced. This tragedy has shaken Novi Pazar, because a young man, who has just stepped into life and came to school in Belgrade, with the desire to gain knowledge and become a useful member of our community, but who, by the way, is brutally interrupted. To make things even worse, great distress causes the fact that neither the family nor the public has been informed whether the wine of the accident has been identified, whether he has been detained, heard, detained, whether he has respected the speed limit. The details of the accident are not yet known. It is very symptomatic that the report of all the media, which, I point out, correctly brought the news, does not list the initials of the winemakers of the accident anywhere, nor states whether, after a fatal case, he provided assistance to a hit young man or escaped from the scene of the accident. Both the family and the public are currently being informed from the media who wrote something. Justifiable suspicions begin. The last two days of social networking in Novi Pazar and the surrounding cities have set this topic on fire. Various insinuations and numerous scenarios are being reported. It further affects the family and further deepens the pain and grief of the lost child. This case has terrified every parent in Serbia who sent his child to school in a center. They're big kids and they're a lot of anxiety. We've all been scared, and we're all gonna be terrified of our kids that we're sending to learn something and get entrenched. Especially a pair of ears that this boy lost his life at a pedestrian crossing near his college. Just because of the sensitivity of this case, to put things in place and to avoid any suspicion, I urge Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic to deal with our Ernad's case with special care and drinking. Also, I ask that the competent prosecutor's office be announced as soon as possible about the details of the accident and the steps taken in the proceedings against the perpetrators of this car accident that led to death and led to the death of a young, noble soul. Unfortunate parents, nothing can replace their inconsolable loss. The only truth for them is healing. As for this nonsense from Mr. Seselj, which we have been listening to for days, I have no comment on them anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52597	A colleague of mine, Mirjana Dragaš, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52598	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Today, on the day when it is possible to ask a question to the government, I would take the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs, perhaps the military and police, as regards the consequences of the NATO bombing. These days, we remember the terrible days of 1999 and the lawless, unfounded masculine bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, our cities, villages, roads, bridges, factories, hospitals, schools, televisions, markets, trains, passengers, pedestrians, ordinary citizens and children who were not guilty of anything. Also today, after 20 years, NATO considers the application of force in Yugoslavia, without the UN Security Council's approval, was a necessary and legitimate action. They also say today that the bombing was done to stop the humanitarian disaster. They say – the goal was achieved, the violence was interrupted, refugees could return home and live freely. They're still calling this atrocious bombing an air campaign. And we have to ask today if the state, the government, has created conditions to document everything that happened in the 78 days of the bombing in Serbia? Do we know the exact number of people killed and wounded? What is the size and price of economic destruction? What are the long - term effects on the health of the population and the environment? It is good that this committee, which assesses the consequences of population health, is formed. Everything that is done should be scientifically proven and documented, but it should also apply to all other areas and to all other consequences. It's not too late to do it all the way. We ask the question - is it because the rest of the Serbian population today lives in Kosovo and Metohija in the terrible conditions of democracy, freedom, return home or is life in the ghetto with killing, robbing and with constant fear of tomorrow? It was a classic form of aggression, and more and more states know it, in which 17 NATO states were against a small country that did not agree to an open occupation, capitulation and humiliation. And because of this and this relationship, NATO's strength and today, it's our even greater obligation and responsibility to only make exact data, exact facts, precise names, record everything that's been done, which has been sacrificed so that the people don't remain collateral damage, not in front of our future generations, nor in front of justice. Sometimes relationships force change. If we have accurate information on these consequences, they will also become relevant for tomorrow's international courts of justice. In any case, I think it's very good that the government finally decided, this government has introduced that the consequences of NATO bombing are remembered, that we don't forget the defence heroes, as the government did after October 5th, ashamed of its defenders, shamed to say it was the defence of the country. So much is our debt and our memory only in exact data and exact numbers. We have these days, this spring, that a census will be carried out. The instruments used in the test list can be properly updated and in 2021 they can be trained to answer these questions, that in this way when we collect these exact data and that we can then give the correct answers. This can finally be done not only for the consequences of NATO bombings, but also for all previous destructions and victims of the Serb people in general, and according to this, we finally have memorials and memorial centres that will have clear testimony about the days of the Serbian people's suffering and the injustices committed throughout the 20th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52599	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52600	I thank the chairman. I will now ask certain questions that I once asked earlier, specifically concerning the issue of "Serb Railways". We have testified that 15 days or 20 days ago, the reconstruction of the railway from Nis to eastern Serbia, through Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, which is a good sign, because at that time interval, and before that, we had a series of unwanted situations, where accidents were happening on that track. My question is, since the reconstruction started, it was done quietly, I think close to a mile, one kilometer is done, maybe less, the railroad is done from the Mateva section towards Svrlig, but the works are going a little slower, my question is, is the dynamics of the works that will be given the opportunity to do this track as soon as possible, to make that track work? I remind you, and we all know that this railroad, as it is said, is the breadth of a cookhouse for the development of eastern Serbia, because there is a large number of freight traffic, a large amount of cargo or passenger traffic across that railway. On the other hand, we also have a large number of settlements located in that section of the railway, which have no other transport than the railways. So my question is, will it have the opportunity to speed up the work, to do it as soon as possible, to put the track into operation and normally to do it as planned, because we talked about it earlier? Thank you again to the Ministry of Traffic, which has been launched and started to deal with this railroad, or the reconstruction of the railway. Another issue, regarding the same "Serb Railway", is that all local self-governments located in the area of the railway or in any part where there are road crossings, local self-government is obliged to pay for the maintenance of these road crossings. It's a year or two back. In particular now, the municipalities from which I come, as well as the Librarian, as well as Zaječar, Bor, Negotin, where there are a large number of these spring crossings, make large amounts of money out of the budget, which is quite problematic, because it is a burden for those municipalities. When we take, on the other hand, that no rail traffic is working in that area now, that the construction of the railway is done, I call and ask the authorities in the Railways, will the maintenance of these railway crossings now be charged, since the trains are not working there? It would be good to put it into service as soon as possible, to release those local self-governments that have the obligation to pay for the maintenance of these road crossings, until they put into operation that railroad, and to start taking fast trains, to make it more quality and better than it has ever been before. That's another question. I will once again ask the question "The Ways of Serbia". In particular, I have been talking for two or three months about the problem of the road going from eastern Serbia to Nis, towards the highway, where construction and payment ramps are now scheduled in this period, which will allow normal conditions for our highways to be faster roads, that there is more revenue for the budget and the Republic of Serbia and for better road maintenance in all municipalities, in all parts of the region. In particular, since the payment ramp is built, as it is now under construction, my question is once again "The Ways of Serbia" and the City Administration in Nis, will the process of reconstructing the road from the continuation of the Malcanic loop towards Knjaževacka Street? That part of the road is in bad shape. I was also with the director of "The Way of Serbia", Mr. Drobnjak, and we talked, where he also indicated that this part of the road was reconstructed as soon as possible, that "The Ways of Serbia" should come in, to help the City of Nis, to be done, to be reconstructed, because tomorrow all of us who come from Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, from the east of Serbia, have to go that way because there is no other. Another question - is there a possibility, since there is another alternative, where the City of Nisa Urbanism Agency has created a project, it is an alternative road that goes from Malcana loop across the village of Prosec, towards Nisko Banja? That's another alternative for the city of Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52601	Thank you. Whether any of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word or wants to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52602	Thank you. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and to the unprecedented events of several days ahead of the RTS building, and at the protest organised by Đilas, Obradović, Jeremic and others so-called. The leaders of the opposition. The question is – will the organizers and the inspirations of these events be processed? I think it is very important that Gilas, Obradovic and others respond because of their hypocrisy and cowardice. Namely, they took advantage of young people in the worst possible way, used their children for their political goals, persuaded them to break into the RTS building, stabbed them to confront the police, and some of those guys were arrested and arrested, and the one responsible for it, the one who was most responsible, escaped from the country in the manner of the worst cowards. I am glad that these children were released and could understand that they were abused by those who do not think well and those whom they have just used for their political goals. Instead of a man standing outside and saying – I am responsible, Gilas fled the country, fled abroad and left those children at large. So, when it's thick, everyone ran away, Gilas to London, by the way, is now in Washington, Sergei to America, Jeremic to Vienna, all heroes themselves. The particular question is, what are they looking for out there, what kind of business does everyone suddenly have in the white world? Come on, we know about this Sergei in America, he went skiing there, I don't know what money, because it's too expensive a ski resort, but what are these others looking for? Have they gone to seek support from their friends for the destruction of power in Serbia on the street? Did they go looking for instructions on how to violently change power? How can they cause chaos and bloodshed? Did they go to get approval for trying some Macedonian and similar scenarios? It is no secret that opposition representatives are counting on the support of some Western countries to achieve their goals, i.e. to come to power in Serbia but without a choice. Here's what it looks like, this is Gilas at the airport, traveling to Washington, and remember the pictures that were published by the representatives of some embassies, so it's the American embassy, the representatives of the embassy with the organizers of these protests. Remember that Gilas stayed in Skopje a few weeks ago where he met with his friend Zaev. Here they are, comrades, Gilas and Zaev, and he didn't remember the opportunity to visit and meet with representatives of Serbs in Macedonia. That was not of interest at the time, he was probably interested in getting advice from Zaev on how to come to power without a choice. It's probably part of that strategy, that famous pact, the Balkan Pact against Serbia, but Gilas is not interested in Serbia or the Serbian people, he's only interested in coming to power at all costs and continuing his personal wealth, and it's now obvious that a competition for Serbia's Gwaid is open, so many have applied for the competition, there are many candidates, but ahead of Djilas and Jeremic. Because how else does it explain that he didn't even try to deny that he went to Washington to seek support for the violent shift of power in Serbia? Now they've attacked the patriarch. Now they have a problem with the patriarch. You saw yesterday's shameful attack on Patriarch Irine. And that's what this is all about, and that's the point, the same ones who have been destroying Serbia for years, who have been robbing Serbia for years, now want to go back to power and continue to be rich, but they know that by regular means, therefore, by regular means, elections, they can't do it, so they're trying to cause chaos and on the street to return to power. And they know that many of the disputes I end up with, the chairman, many outside do not match strong and stable Serbia and count on their support and are ready to put themselves openly in service to serve them in order to achieve their interests, which is coming to power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52603	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Djordje Milicevic and Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic, written on 18 March 2019, withdrew amendments to members: 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the opinion of the proposing representatives on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52604	The SRS parliamentary group responded to this bill by proposing that each member be deleted individually and that is our relationship to the law, i.e. we argue that such a law could not possibly fit into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and should not be passed. For the sake of the public, we remind that it is the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, that it is a proposal by Nenada Chanka and his party, and that we in the SRS think it was entirely excessive to pass any law for something already regulated by the Constitution, and it is particularly impossible to pass and propose a law that is contrary to the Constitution and with two system laws, as is the case with these proposals. For the sake of the public, we also remind you of Article 182. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says - autonomous provinces are an autonomous territorial community established by the Constitution, in which citizens exercise the right to province autonomy. The Republic of Serbia has the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. This is especially important for you all to remember. The essential autonomy of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. The promoter here claimed that there was a constitutional obligation, an obligation under the constitutional law to pass this law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, but even if so, and not so, then the law cannot be brought contrary to the basic provision of the Constitution, or beyond those frameworks. It would be, as we have, I don't know, Article 106, which says that the National Assembly, I'm talking about the Constitution, that it meets in two regular sessions a year, and we have an obligation to pass the Law on the National Assembly, which has been passed, and it can't be in that law that we have three regular sessions, if the Constitution said it's two. And with this bill of law we're discussing. To predict, colleagues will speak further individually of each member, but predict in this law the establishment of a tax administration on the territory, i.e. in the AP Vojvodina, the formation of some commission to monitor the application of this law, and then says if the other laws were contrary to this law then this law would be applied. It's really written how little Perica imagines a country. Therefore, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Budgetary System Act are system laws that regulate this matter and there is no room, nor is there a need to pass any other law on this subject. When it comes to financing the AP Vojvodina, it is regulated by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that member of the Constitution is being followed, the question is whether it should have been done at all, but we have it regulated and we respect what is a constitutional obligation, but more than that, and besides that, it is first unacceptable, impossible, and we don't think it should happen at all. We have been wondering from the beginning why this was put on the agenda in the first place, why we are even discussing something that is absolutely the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at first sight. We didn't get an explanation from the congregation majority, who put this on the agenda, which is why it was so done. The Serbian Radical Party is otherwise against the autonomy of Vojvodina and we want to highlight it. We are for the autonomy of local self-government, and what is provided for in this law absolutely exceeds normal frameworks of autonomy and in fact gives statehood to Vojvodina, and that is what is very dangerous, not only legally, is legally unconstitutional, but it is dangerous and political and therefore we think that we should not have discussed it at all, on the one hand. On the other hand, it may not be bad to hear all the voices in Serbia, we are sure little, too little, but it is not good to have them at all, it is not good that there are such thoughts at all. Instead of being on a unique task of solving the problem at KIM, we are dealing with some things that are not the problem so far, which, unfortunately, could be the problem. So, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose that Article 1 of this Bill be deleted. The other colleagues will propose this for the other members, and thus we have the view of the SRS that this law, i.e. this proposal must never and ever become a law. Of course, when it comes to this second act, the motion for a resolution or what they called it - the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina, there is not even an autonomous province, is an act that can't be discussed in particular by our Rules of Procedure, so we can't give details even though we've put amendments there, but most importantly, we're absolutely against these proposals and we're pushing against the autonomy of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52605	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go. Up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52606	Thank you very much. I would only respond to what we have heard that the Committee is on the claim that the Voivodina Finance Act is not in line with the Constitution, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has determined that the law is in accordance with the Constitution, and which is also testified by Article 184. Serbia's constitution, which says that the Autonomous province has the original income to finance its competences, and that is what is important, the type and height of the original revenues of the Autonomous province is determined by law. It is this law, so it is quite clear that it is not a conflict with the Constitution but a resistance to the full existence of the AP Vojvodina and autonomy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52607	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you know, the SNS Parliament Club will vote against this bill, so the amendment debate does not change much. In line with what the amendment predicted, I would like to say that my opinion that Serbia as a state of this kind of organisation and this size does not need a middle level of government, that is my opinion, but, of course, the rights acquired have been acquired, and so the degree of autonomy of the Vojvodina should be preserved and preserved, because that is something that is a postulate of democracy, which still does not change the fact that I can express my opinion that I am against it, as the legislator has stated that it is for Vojvodina to be even a federal unit, which, by the way, we can see through this proposal. If someone wants the tax administration, and they're still talking about getting the police back, like it used to be, customs administration, don't give God and the army, courts, then we get to having a practical state in the state. I must say that I am against it because, when the common state of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians came into existence, with all the decisions we have heard in Novi Sad, Ruma, Vojvodina had no autonomy, administrative units were called Banovina, and my Smederevo was together with Novi Sad in the framework of a bank, for example, and this is a completely different kind of regionalisation. I think regionalisation in Serbia, that it is necessary to have local authority with those communal powers, and for God's sakes that the situation is developing in the world and Europe and that more and more states are turning to strong state authorities, I think that Serbia should take account of the new constitution. Otherwise, AP Vojvodina and KIM are the legacy of something I've always been against as a man and today I'm against it. It's the legacy of the communist Yugoslavia. It is the legacy of something created against the interest and will of the Serb people. In front of me, I have the Official Journal, and I will print it out once and share it with all my colleagues in the Assembly, the Democratic Federation of Yugoslavia. In fact, it was the state of the Communist Party without a choice. The National Committee of Liberation of Yugoslavia's decision to, to keep an eye on the document is written in March 1945, banning colonists from returning to their homes, and in fact Serbs to Kosovo, to translate. It is one of the first activities the Communist Party had in Yugoslavia when it took over power and later went with the creation of all of it to dissipate as much as possible in the communist Yugoslavia, the Serb people. At the end of 1974, we also had this constitution that created three states in Serbia's territory, and that's true. If we hadn't had all this, if it hadn't happened to us, if we hadn't been weak and we hadn't resisted it, and we should have been a people, we wouldn't have had this problem with Kosovo today. We wouldn't because communists have been making a state out of Kosovo immediately, as you can see, since 1945. It's something that's true, like it or not. So it was and so it continued, and we now have to bear both the consequences and to fight as hard as possible for our country, for our mother Serbia, to bring her back to where she belongs and to re-create her strong and strong as she used to be, but certainly not in March 1945. So to repeat once again, that -- the autonomy of the Vojvodina, that -- this is how we have it today, but to expand, to return to some time from the 1970s, to look for something like that, we don't need it. My colleague, I said I'm in favor of not having a middle level of government at all, but we have to respect something that's acquired right, which exists as a postulate, and of course as a society, we can talk about it in the next period. In any case, the new Constitution needs all of this very precise to solve. Now I think it's clear that everything works in accordance with the current constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52609	Thank you. I didn't understand my colleague Radet, so I'm correcting my mistake now. Here you are, the right to replicate my colleague Chanka's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52610	Yes, I wanted to draw attention that what Mr. Canak said was no argument. The fact that the committee in charge has said that this can be discussed does not mean that it is in harmony with the Constitution. We had cases that the committees, even the majority of the assembly, voted in favour of some acts that were contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We submitted the initiative to the Constitutional Court a few days ago, for example, to establish the constitutionality of that treaty, a law ratifying Serbia and the United States' co-operation agreement on the extradition of our citizens for some crimes, etc. Even, unfortunately, we had situations in this previous period when the Constitutional Court was completely political, when the Constitutional Court was at the service of the congregation's majority, so also calling on the Constitutional Court in some situations is truly discriminatory. Let me remind you that the Constitutional Court, for example, worked for the DS when the SNS was formed, when they declared an unconstitutional part of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, so Gordana Comic brought more warm, no one has yet seen, the Official Messenger. She brought it and waved it -- here, she says, these are the right ones to belong to the kidnapped mandate of the SRS. What hurts many today because of the kidnapping of office, it is a subject for another time. Or, for example, the Constitutional Court declares the unconstitutional Statute of the AP Vojvodina when a new statute is passed. So, the institutions of the system, unfortunately, do not function, or function as they should and it is unacceptable and is not an argument what Mr. Canak said was in line with the Constitution. As a lawyer, I say, and we claim that this is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52611	Thank you. Right on the replica, MP Nenad Canak, up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52612	I'd like to replicate to a respected colleague named Shormaz. First, this is not a debate on what the communists have done or haven't done, nor is this an assessment of how the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was arranged, but this is a bill that needs to be circled by the adoption of the Constitution, which has not been done for 10 years. So it's not about expanding institutions, competences or whatever in Vojvodina, but it's about, I repeat, rounding the law, which was the obligation under the Constitution to pass ten years ago. The fact that Mr. Shormaz mentioned customs and the army, I really don't understand why he did it, because no customs or military regarding the AP Vojvodina were ever mentioned. I think it can lead citizens into a dilemma -- whether or not there is some connection between our proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which, I repeat, is a constitutional category, with some kind of customs and military that they don't have, or where they're mentioned, or who's looking for the AP Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52613	Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52614	I didn't even say you were looking for customs or an army, you didn't understand. Even then I used the term – don't let God ask for it. If you already come to the fact that tax administration, courts and police are required from the current level, there will not be a day when someone will remember in that administrative unit to say – don't give God and customs and the army one day. That's all I said. That we have to think about all this in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52615	Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52616	I would just ask my distinguished colleague Shormaz to take another look at the bill and he would see that none of it is mentioned, that the tax administration is mentioned, but that if he wanted to be constructive, he could submit an amendment that we would be happy to accept, because it would mean that there is a desire to comply with this country's legal system, the position of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. Its funding, because that's exactly why we decided to submit this bill as MPs because no other institution has done so in this country for 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52617	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52618	By coming to power after 2000, Nenad Canak and his separatist click had more outfalls, which in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which in the AP Vojvodina and I must remind you of Mr Chanka's visit to the Vatroslav Visinski Hall in Zagreb in 2002 at the event – Srm Hrvats, then the printing of the Vojvodina passport, then the printing of the map of Serbia on the lips and when the cap on the top of Serbia remains without Vojvodina. Perhaps he meant then the wings of the dosmanium and the mafia regime of Zoran Djindjic and those who inherited him so that he could continue, that the cost of the state would be carried out by this separatism, however, he is now, I think of these separatist aspirations and of the support he has in the AP Vojvodina on exhaling. This bill, which is actually a plagiarism of plagiarists, because, we will remind you, that the District Government has already adopted this bill unanimously, but has not found itself in the procedure, and then, as an MP of the DS, Aleksandra Jerkov, put it in the assembly procedure on December 13th 2016 and now through a change of one word and through an ascension, which would be said in the dictionary – the sickening of certain sentences in the explanation, LSV and Nenad Canak again, and we are discussing it today. It was a moment ago when Mrs. Radeta, as a legal expert, replied to Canca that he knew absolutely nothing. Says man - read article 184. The constitution, it says here, is in accordance with the Constitution. The only thing that is in line with the Constitution of Mr. Canaka, and I am talking about this Article 2 concerning the transfer funds and incomes of the AP Vojvodina, is only Article 184 and your right to propose a law. Everything else has absolutely nothing to do with the applicable regulations in the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic of Serbia has its own unique tax system, the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, the Budgetary System Act and for each layman it is clear that it has to be different what it is, it knows what every entrepreneur, every privateer in Vojvodina, Baji's Basta, in Kragujevac, Prot, Vranja, what income a taxpayer gives, is that so Mr Arsic, since you are a member of it, and that this is not a particular income in your case for Pozarjevac, or in mine for Kragujevac, or someone else for Novi Sad, or Beocina, etc., but it is a total income in the unique tax system of the Republic of Serbia. Canak himself, first of all, with repeated flossules, imagine what a political defeat he has failed to prove in 20 and more years that Serbia, to God, is robbing Vojvodina. Even in 2001, as I recall, there was a set of these autonomists and those followers of the communists who celebrated their position until the Constitution in 1974, and before they could do whatever they wanted, and when that former Yugoslavia had that federal status, even at that gathering they couldn't make valid arguments about Serbia allegedly robbing the people of Vojvodina, they were already fighting over each other over the cake. In today's practice, it is clear that the duchy government of the AP Vojvodina is absolutely a real parasite on the Republic of Serbia's budget, is it verifiable, is it possible to prove, of course, that 80% of the AP Vojvodina's income is just being financed from the republican budget and that Nenad Canak and his two colleagues do not know what is original and what incomes are made, such as tax, customs, excise, cannot be killed just for their separatist aspirations, it is simply their problem. This congregation debate has actually proved, and it will show the time to come, that Nenad Canak and his followers no longer have the support they had before. Serbia has major problems, especially because of the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, and perhaps, whenever they were turbulent moments for the state, when we had a great deal of people with KIM, then later the adoption of the Constitution, then they were declaring independence so-called "independence". by the Separatists of the Cypriots, that Chanak and his followers thought it might be a good time and that they were able to swim on those separatist waters. However, as time comes and not the adoption of this law simply the inability of it, here is the man today, who on the third day in the Serbian Parliament, cannot at all prove the aspirations and claims they made in this bill. It will show that his ideology will remain on the sidelines of political developments in Serbia. It is our job to look, to strengthen the unity of the state and the people, to help our people in KIM, to help our people in Republika Srpska, with the tendency to one day become a single Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52619	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52620	Thank you very much. This amendment reads to delete Article 2. The bill, which reads -- the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to Serbia's budget, sets out the budget act adopted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly, the basis for determining the budget is the total expenditure and expenditure planned by Serbia's budget, three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget used to finance capital expenditure. The final position of Article 184. Serbia's constitution -- the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to Serbia's budget, with three weeks of AP Vojvodina's budget being used to finance capital expenditures. The difference between the two members is that the basis for determining the budget of the AP Vojvodina is defined by the amount of total expenditure and expenditure planned by the Republic of Serbia. In other words, this is just to specify the constitutional provision of the last position of Article 184. So, therefore, this is not contrary to the Constitution, but prescribed by the Constitution, which clearly states that it is not a constructive amendment, but it is only a need for everything that is related to Vojvodina to be disqualified to the most populist possible mention of problems in other parts of Serbia, which are undeniable but not the subject of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52621	Right on line, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52622	He did not listen well, Mr. Canak, whether through a joke or through a lack of arguments, he was ridiculed by colleagues Lazic and Papuga. I just said that, it's absolutely pointless that what it says in the Constitution, let me tell you again, is a Article 184. You're putting too high in this motion for an impossible law. So, the fact that the SRS resorted to it, so you'll see both at the end and the entry into force of this law, that this member is deleted, I guess it's enough to prove that we don't want to do anything like this at all, that neither the majority of the assembly, and the vast majority of the people of Vojvodina, you're lonely in that, has you for one van or bus, that this law goes into effect. So I repeat again, what you have stated and called for Article 184 and what you have now read as a repeater at school, clearly stands, but it is too high in law. It's impossible, because you don't know it, you know it very well, you know it and you know it, but it's just your whole story, and it's separatistic, and it's all about what, ultimately, you're political, you're escalating, you're gone, you're nowhere, and you're just not going to be there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52623	Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52624	They repeat once again politely -- the basis for determining the budget of the AP Vojvodina is the total expenditure and expenditure planned by the Republic of Serbia's budget. This was included in the bill, because it was not specified in the Constitution, and it was the source of misunderstanding when calculating the amount of the AP Vojvodina budget over the years. That is why it was necessary to define this already once as a methodology for calculating the minimum amount of the AP Vojvodina budget. On the other hand, the fact that most of the AP Vojvodina's budget is from the transferred funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as is largely calculated through account and transfer funds, is due to the lack of such a law, and that is why we have proposed this law to correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52625	Thank you. The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52626	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the position of the SRS is that the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on Vojvodina, that they are unconstitutional and that is why we have requested that all members of this proposal be deleted, including Article 3 to which this amendment applies. Since the bill is unconstitutional, the position of the SRS is that the bill must not be adopted at all. The financial autonomy of the AP is regulated by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the position of the 3rd member, I quote -- the law determines the participation of autonomous provinces in the part of the Republic of Serbia's income, while attitude 4 states that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the Serbian budget, with three weeks of the AP's budget being used to finance capital expenditures. This Article 3. The draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina has been violated and Article 11. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and we propose that this amendment be adopted requiring the erasure of Article 3, because the financial autonomy of autonomous provinces is governed by Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposed member is neither in accordance with the Constitution nor with Article 11. Tax code and tax administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52627	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first conclude that my fellow MPs from the SRS Group will not mind me making an effort this time to help Nenad Canka break his illusions of the AP Vojvodina once and for all. It's his eternal illusions. When I say centuries-old, it means they existed in the 20th century and now in the 21st century, but I have no intention of helping him adopt this law, but I intend to fully disclose it in which his right to propose such a bill. We, as legal experts in the parliamentary group, analyzed what brought him to the idea of proposing a law like this, so we started from interpreting legal regulations. We've seen that there's a language interpretation. He didn't touch that, logically Semantic, historical, but now that we're talking about a targeted interpretation, he took certain elements from the description of the target interpretation to try to propose such a bill. There is another division, however, in the legal theory is not known as a serious division, it is a private and I would say state theory, or the possibility of interpreting legal norms, so there is an authentic one, meaning the state interpretation of the bringer of a certain act, when giving a certain opinion and there is a private interpretation of the right. So, Mr. Nenad Canak made an effort to bring this bill to the National Assembly, deliver, which he did a little targetedly interpret and a little private. That's why we have a bill like this. You've seen the provisions of article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not leave at all the possibility of serious thinking that such a bill can be found, not God's vote yet. I remember, you remember, too, your colleague Arsic, when this constitution was confirmed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on King Milan Street, that Canak, with a group of his comrades outside the Assembly, protested against this constitution. However, he had the right to do so, as he has the right and now, he feels obliged to apply this constitution, but he could then make some trips, challenge what Serbian citizens have said unequivocally and the MPs at the time confirmed. If you ask us what we think of Vojvodina? Well, one of Serbia's most beautiful parts, but I don't want to offend my colleague Miljetic, every village, every place, every municipality and city in Serbia is the most beautiful in the entire globe of the Earth. Here is a colleague I respect in particular, his topics are aimed at agriculture and at challenging those who do not think well of Serbia, so he calls them more often than others. He says – he is an autonomist, and I would ask him if he would say with such a full mouth and heart that he is an autonomist, that Goran Jesic is his rural secretary for agriculture or Marinika Tepic, God forbid, the secretary for culture, youth, information or anything else. Would he say he's an autonomist then? He made a joke when he said you were autonomising her. He's probably a man with the same thinking we have in the SRS. You see, the seeds of Serbia's attempts to break up didn't come from Vojvodina, it's from our eternal, traditional enemies, such as the EU, such as the NATO Pact, such as other countries, states, and they found performers there in that small handful or a group of people who want to work on it. They certainly do not do it out of love, out of will, or in order to show themselves as experts in a particular area. You see, the man is an economist, a graduate economist, and he thinks and says, "The original income." Well, the laws have been regulated. Yes, exactly, the Tax Procedure and Administration Act determines how and how public income is being implemented and collected. The budget system law, which was passed in 2009 and each year before the adoption of the budget for the following year, was also amended by the Budget System Act. Well, he said what the original revenues of the Serbian state are, the sources of the province's autonomous income, as well as the original revenues of local self-government. It is still said here in which amount the state of Serbia will transfer to the autonomous province. Look at the freedom, I'd say, insolence first. The Republic of Serbia is obliged, imagine someone proposing a law and says the Republic of Serbia is obliged to do something, something to transfer. If he needs more, I'm ready to explain to Mr. Cank that we're in the process, that this is a private proposition for him and that this will not pass in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Perhaps he agreed with someone and tried to see how they could make some coalitions in the coming period, after some next elections. If it's from Chank, if it is, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52629	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52630	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have sworn an oath here. I hope she's the same for everyone. The oath contained that we would respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the AP is Vojvodina's autonomy. Her powers are regulated by the Constitution and the laws. I say in that sense, I was the autonomist who stood up for that position. I also said that the autonomy of the Vojvodina was a Serbian thing, that it was mostly the pursuit of the Spruce people, and I said it was supported by other peoples. And that Vojvodina has national, historical, geographical, industrial agricultural specificities and that Vojvodina and its stability is an interest in the Republic of Serbia. I think the current leadership appreciates it. I also said that Alexander Jerkov's file would be in the CIA. They must have trained her to copy quickly. This is the government's 2015 government document. In the document, the Vojvodina Assembly did not want to discuss that Bojan Pajtic was one of the leading figures, the DS has an uncut power for nearly 16 years. I understand regional parties, they have their aspirations, they are political legal and legitimate, as it is legal and legitimate to say that I do not like this document and that I will not vote for it. We have a decentralisation problem because we replaced Belgrade with new sedation over the past 16 years. It was up to Bojan Pajtic. We have those new technologies, Mr. Martinovic, you know that the stock was a coffin. You get a loan from Bojan Pitiæ you have back in the coffins. You get credit from Bojan Pajtic or that Petrovic or whatever it was called, and then you have to return it to the siphons in hundreds of thousands and millions of copies you have, deliver it to the pensioners. So every pensioner in Vojvodina should get 100 siphons. Thus, such loans were a product of centralization. Instead of Vojvodina and instead of "Serbishum" and "Serbijavoda", you get "Vojvod's water" and "Vojvod's forest". The Banat regions, Srem and Baka did not benefit much from this. But if we bring a new constitution, it will include the aspirations and ideologies of many parties, and I believe the parties, the gentleman of the previous speaker. I believe that this constitution will be modern, I believe that those who write this will understand the need for Vojvodina to have a certain degree of autonomy, but I say that Vojvodina cannot carry out the secession. I say that Vojvodina is in Serbia, I say that Vojvodina cannot be an equal federal unit with Serbia, I say Serbia is a comprehensive territory. Also, I said that there was little reason in the 1990s and that we were returning certain degrees of KIM autonomy, so that a different song would be sung and I don't believe that Albanians would be able to solve their secession, but there were stubborn attitudes that didn't understand that thing, which was extremely dangerous for Serbia. I believe Serbia needs to be balanced, but I said that the autonomy of Vojvodina was created in the Serbian aspirations, and some others have helped to achieve it and it has been achieved. It is the work of the Semese Kingdom, to the dukedom, to the great congregation, that is, the day before the Romanian congregation. So we have to be careful, Serbia's safety is the first thing. Let's not work, dig trenches at awkward times and awkward moments, don't dig trenches towards regional parties, which have their legitimate demands. God forbid someone internationalizes the issue of Vojvodina, because we're too rough, they're sensitive moments and we need to be extremely smart. But again, the territory of the Republic of Serbia is comprehensive, Vojvodina cannot be above Serbia, Vojvodina cannot be equal to Serbia, but Vojvodina by me, and also by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has the right to some autonomy, and this member says that in the delegated powers, this member is acceptable to me, to transfer the powers and entrusted tasks, Vojvodina should receive a certain portion of the income to be able to execute them. This member, to me, is not a problem, but Aleksandra Jerkov, has two policies, she has one policy in Novi Sad, and there is another policy in Belgrade. In Novi Sad, they want to take the electorate's body to regional parties, and in Belgrade they want to court the Ljotics. This is what bothers me, as it bothers me that Aleksandra Jerkov did not move until 2016, that this document which is the starting point of 2013, that this document, which was from 2015, did not move to discuss it in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Today, Aleksandra Jerkov, who wanted to say that this is her authorial work, is not a sin to admit that you signed it, Aleksandra Jerkov said this was her document, and we made sure it wasn't from 2015. So I'm saying, I guess the CIA learned how to rewrite it quickly and how to do something about it, means the 2015 document, which it prescribed to itself, do you see it here today? Do you see the DS that did not want to discuss such a document in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and the Serbian Parliament, well done, is. We will vote, I will vote against, most will vote against, but we intend to discuss this with regional parties, wanting to respect their ideas, ideologies and aspirations. Alexandra Jerkov, who wants to inherit this idea in Novi Sad, do you see it today? I don't see her. Do you see any MPs from the DS, and from other states from the Vojvodina, who, for God's sake, stand up for it? They're not here today. They are hypocrites who will bring down both Vojvodina and Serbia tomorrow. You cannot allow Alexandera Jerkov, through her CIA, through her training, to try to internationalise the issue of Vojvodina and therefore be for or against, is worth today discussing Vojvodina, by repeating that the Republic of Serbia is a completely sovereign, free, democratic state, which will discuss all issues and democratically come to an end, not by street, rebellion, internationalisation in Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52631	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52632	I would just draw attention to the honourable fellow MPs, that we here today are not talking about the AP Vojvodina, nor the AP Vojvodina position, nor the autonomy at all, nor the internal arrangement of the Republic of Serbia, but are discussing the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and has been missed for the past ten years. So we're not talking about Vojvodina, we're talking about rounding up the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, in the Vojvodina case. So that's the essence of this bill. Anyone who thinks it is necessary to circle the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has now had the opportunity to do one of three things. One, to intervene with the amendments, unless he likes this bill. Two to propose his law. Under three, to find a way to correct it in some third original way by constitutional amendments or whatever. Anyway, insisting that it's not possible to change something just because it would be a lot of work because of it, is the saddest excuse I've ever heard of non-compliance and that's what we heard in the discussion last week. That is why, I will remind you once again, we are not talking about the Vojvodina now, but in the Vojvodina case, we are talking about rounding the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and keeping the Republic of Serbia in the co-ordinates of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52633	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52634	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will, as well as in the principle debate, try to make arguments that I think are correct, which are contrary to the attitude and the imposed subject that Vojvodina is a priority problem and that Vojvodina is neglected in Serbia, and that, as such, it should get the tax administration through this law, to gain greater financial resources, greater independence, and thus try to strengthen its development, and all is justed by the arguments that certain parts of Vojvodina, are neglected, that infrastructure is in poor condition, etc. On the contrary, I believe that Vojvodina is privileged in many things and I will only present a series of arguments why I believe that Vojvodina is privileged and that this is not a priority problem, but that, unfortunately, the state of Serbia, which is an equative example of huge regional differences, i.e. huge differences in regional development, and that there are many more priority problems and bigger problems that need to be addressed more urgently than the problems in Vojvodina. Vojvodina has its own 75 billion dinar budget, of which 45 goes for employees' salaries and education, means 30 billion dinars for AP Vojvodina territory, is intended as additional funds for the Vojvodina province administration to develop its territory. Those 30 billion were, I think, quite enough to intervene in all municipalities that have poor infrastructure, and that we have no huge differences in development and wages for example. The new Sad and municipalities that are 50 or 100 kilometers away from the centre of the AP Vojvodina. Also, Vojvodina was privileged by the fact that, if you remember in the Privatisation Act, the only exception was that everything on the territory of the AP Vojvodina was the subject of privatisation, half of the funds, the revenues from privatisation went to the AP Vojvodina budget. No municipality in Serbia, unfortunately, has had that privilege. No statisticalally or any other region has had the privilege of obtaining part of the privatisation funds, although only those minimum 5% were intended for all municipalities. In addition, the province's budget has included 90% of the NIS privatisation. Was that fair to the citizens of Serbia, according to the rest of Serbia? Of course not. What else is Vojvodina privileged to do? The complete "Corridor 10", which passes through Vojvodina territory, through a narrow part of Serbia, is still being built through the rest of Serbia. The renewal of the railway completely from Belgrade to Budapest, i.e. through the entire APV territory, will be tackled and financed by a billion-euro Chinese loan. Also, Vojvodina has the privilege of having the only two major public systems, the oil industry of Serbia and Serbia's "Serbigas", have their headquarters on the APV territory. No other public enterprise has its own headquarters outside Belgrade, except for those two who are on APV territory, that is the privilege of Vojvodina. The largest number of people who work in these companies gets paid there and, of course, pays salary taxes, right where they live. So that's one privilege. Hospitals, schools, kindergartens will be built by the state of Serbia. The trip through Fruska up from Novi Sad to Capca, also builds the state of Serbia with a loan. All bridges destroyed in NATO's aggression were also built by the state of Serbia. In the end, Vojvodina has a Vojvodin Radio-Television, with 1200 employees and is budgeted every year, and 1.5 billion dinars are scheduled for 2019. No other municipality, no other side of Serbia has a public service financed by their money, so the money of all citizens, only has the privilege of Vojvodina. Therefore, I think that Vojvodina is privileged in the state of Serbia, which is not neglected and therefore, of course, I will not support such a bill. I urge both the government and the ruling majority to form a ministry of equal and regional development, because it is the cancer of Serbia's wounds. You have neighborhoods in eastern Serbia and in western Serbia, in southern Serbia that literally die, disappear from the country's face. You have thousands of villages that disappear because they have several inhabitants over 70 years of age. No infrastructure, that's where God said good night. The state here needs to intervene, to have a different approach, to invest much more in these areas, because if we have people in border areas, we'll have territory. If we neglect people, they will, of course, seek their economic existence to move to more developed parts of the country or abroad, so we have cases that the bullets are empty, that complete eastern Serbia is empty, and I'm afraid we won't get far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52635	Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52636	I would have to draw attention, once again, to discuss here the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, not the APV. If around Vojvodina, first of all, the Vojvodina budget for this year is 74.4 billion dinars, 44 out of 74 billion, are the funds paid by educators and other people who are beneficiaries of the budget, so only 30 billion remain. The budget of the city of Belgrade is 120 billion, to a small number of residents, has no obligation to invest three weeks in capital projects and does not pay out of the 120 billion dinars of professors, teachers and the rest paid by Vojvodina, but is paid from the republican budget. Secondly, it is not true that bridges are built, as stated by the republican couples, because, let's say, the Žeželj Bridge in Novi Sad was built as one-third of the city of Novi Sad, one-third of the provinces, one-third of the European Union, and the Republic was just overseeing the works. All local, practically, railways have been extinguished, and every investment in railways in Vojvodina is an investment from the state railways, as well as in state projects, travel networks, such as Corridor 10, which has nothing to do with Vojvodina, but only pass through its territory. So it's one replacement thesis, which I wouldn't comment on further, but I had to, for the truth's sake, get these few data out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52637	Right on line, MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52638	Of course these arguments that I've made are absolutely correct, that the 75 billion-billion-dollar Vojvodina is giving to the salaries of educators, or it's being transferred from the republican budget, but it has a remainder of 30 billion for investment. No other part of Serbia has that privilege. All municipalities in Vojvodina receive equal transfers from the republican budget, regardless of whether they are on territory, so-called Serbia's rope or on the territory of Vojvodina, by the same criteria, according to the same key. The city of Novi Sad, for example, receives 950 million dinars, as I remember, from the republican transfer budget, has 350,000 inhabitants. The city of Nis has 280,000 inhabitants and has 630 million dinars from the republican budget. Is that even? Of course not. Is 30 billion dollars a year enough money to invest in the developed municipalities of Vojvodina? I think so. If every year, which takes ten years back, the APV budget has free resources to develop infrastructure in underdeveloped municipalities, surely it can raise its development, on the contrary, and the money is probably going to some other side, perhaps to invest in Novi Sad and the environment. It is now the state of Serbia's fault that it is some Mali Ijoš or worse the municipality of Senta or which has already not been sufficiently developed and needs more funding than the Republic budget. I believe that the state of Serbia is equally looking at all municipalities in Serbia and that the APV's additional budget of 30 billion is only the privilege of Vojvodina, and certainly not a handicap.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52639	Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52640	Thirty billion, mentioned by a colleague, are not free funds, but are total assets operated by the province's administration. These are, therefore, all the funds from which these three-seven capital investments should be settled. In Vojvodina, 17 municipalities were underdeveloped and we came into a position that of the ten most developed municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, all ten were located on the territory of the city of Belgrade, which, of course, only 20 years ago was not even close to the case. So Vojvodina lags far faster than other parts of Serbia. That's what this centralization is about. That is why I am convinced that a different approach, and this approach could be so if found, would allow statistical determination of how much the APV contributes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that the equivalent amount of money goes into the APV budget, rather than this voluntaryally invented percentage of seven percent. However, this is still not the subject of what we are talking about, but rather the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its rounding up of the laws that were to be passed by 31 December 2008. It's not done. That's what this is all about. It is no privilege to have a province, but the problem is that the APV is, in the meantime, decommissioned, robbed, sold out and now, even this little thing that the Constitution guarantees is not applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52641	You don't, colleague Lapčević, right on the line. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52642	Mr. Arsic, with only one half sentence, Mr. Canak will not be angry with me when I address him directly and say, Mr. Canak, you remind me of Kostunica now. Do you see what it's like to sit on one side? You are the promoter of this and you are in the position of Minister or Prime Minister at the moment, so you see when MPs use and a little bit wider than what is purely on paper, to explain their claims, how you suddenly shorten all this and you say – I would remind you that we are only talking about this now, and that this is not a topic, etc.? You see, everything depends on what position you're in and which side you're looking at. I would refer to what the applicant of the amendment is, and that is Mr. Peric, speaking. He mentioned one more thing that matters, he talked about a private or personal relationship and about us passing laws, it's true, and because of the system, but we also bring it for the people, and they apply it or implement it often and people do. Our people say: “Whoever a snake bites, the lizard also fears. ” Well, you know, when you have a situation where the government of Vojvodina Bojan Pajtic, and Serbia's Cvetkovic's government, read - DS and Boris Tadic, and now you've said about some of the robberies that took place there, I would remind you that, for example, "Mitrosrem" and today is not resolved, and I would remind you that the whole of Serbia was startled when she heard that the companies were a certain drug dealer, which we only learned when the US Anti-Trafficking Agency of DEA met at that time the Ministry of Interior to find and arrest Saric, Darka Saric, or whatever it was, that group was buying through the Vojvodina of combinations, cooperatives and at one point held 10% of agricultural land in Vojvodina, which was bought from drug sales in Europe, and that is a fact. This is what everyone knows was done, and it was done by buying through "Metals Bank", which guaranteed these alleged customers to do and buy, and later Bojan Pajtic saved that "Metals Bank" by turning it into the Vojvodine Development Bank. As an MP from 2008 to 2010, I asked Cvetkovic's government 11 times on the subject. I never got an answer once. Watch out, not once. For the first time, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic answered me when the government was elected, in which he first served as interior minister and gave me a tax on three sides of the paper against which all criminal charges, against whom and in which prosecution the cases are held. That's how it is today. So we have to take care of all this when we talk about funding. Look, Vojvodina has, in its time, made the Vojvodina Development Bank next to the fund she had, from a bank that guaranteed criminals to buy agricultural land in Vojvodina, and that DS didn't care about the paors and didn't talk about their rights. They now have a problem with large-scale capital, such as Tenis from Germany or like Emirat companies. It bothers them, and when drug dealers bought the land, then it didn't bother them, and then they kept quiet and didn't fight it, they used it for personal interests. So we have to say one more thing just mentioned -- demographics, and there's one thing I have to say that's not true here, is the problem in all of Europe and Serbia. It is the biggest problem we have, but, as represented in eastern Serbia, it is also represented in Vojvodina. I was in the village of Djala, which is a half-empty village, on the border with Hungary. The weed is up to the roof houses. So nothing solves... There is no economic model that solves this, it is already known in Europe. It turns out that decentralisation, which we're talking about here, doesn't solve it. A completely different approach is needed, and we will have to go together, as most in Europe, to solve this problem. So decentralisation has not solved the problem of evicting and reducing the population. The economic model doesn't exist that solves it. In Sweden, too, the population decreases, although the standard is enormous. So we have to do it another way. Is this what we're talking about today? I'm convinced it's not, and that's why I'm talking about it, but I'm saying, we need to take care of people, too. We had an example, so I repeat once again, and that is why we from the SNS have to continue to insist and resolve the issue of Vojvodina Development Bank and Metals Bank. It was one of the greatest thievings, and certainly the largest that was built on the territory of the Vojvodina by the DS authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52643	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52644	My colleague Shormaz won't mind if I speak to him directly. What you've told me is really scary. Have you met the authorities who are supposed to lead the investigation and do something about it, because I am quite certain that no one in the Vojvodina administration, although I have any reason to defend this administration, because I was only a functioner for four years, from 2000 to 2004, and I don't feel responsible for everything that's been going on in the executive section of power. You're saying they kept quiet about drug dealers buying land? Well, who could have warned the drug dealers, since Vojvodina has no police, and the police of the Republic of Serbia have given no signal on the subject? Secondly, you ask why villages are empty and why they are empty. Well, the Land Act has been passed, which has been leased for 30 years by state-owned land for the use of large companies, which is why entire villages are sentenced to death, since they can no longer take land to rent, to rent from the state, as it was done for decades, so that small and medium-sized producers can survive. So it's about system things that are largely responsible and power from, say, 2012 to today, but that's the part that's getting out of sight here. Again, we are not talking about this, but about the law on the financing of Vojvodina, which should make Serbia a rule of law, by bringing more than ten years of delay. I greatly appreciate your knowledge of the situation in Vojvodina, but I would appreciate it even more if you had intervened on this law, no doubt, with useful amendments that would contribute to its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52645	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52646	Now you're trying to say something I didn't say. The police were working, Mr. Canak, it doesn't matter where, whether in Belgrade or New Sad and the police filed criminal charges, but do you know who didn't work? Nenad Canak: Who? ) Well, they didn't just work Pajtic and Cvetkovic, who had a job. They're the ones who put it under the carpet until the American agency got involved that asked for the whole case to be solved and I said it nicely, and the police did. I have an exact list of reports the police filed. The police were working, but the DS powers all the time while they were in power were trying to stop it from being processed until the end. So much for their commitment to the EU, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52647	Right on the line, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52648	I thought I wouldn't answer, but I have to ask a question. How is it possible that seven years of nothing is done on this subject and that, as you have called them, the powers of the DS, if all of this is said, and I have no reason to doubt that it is true, therefore, if it is true, why they are not brought to justice and why it has not already been decided, because it has proved that the judiciary can be effective, and these are acts that are absolutely against the state and the people and you know it as well as I do, and it is really not clear to me why this judicial system would protect someone who has committed such crimes, and for seven years since it is no longer in power, although I will repeat it for the shortest time, please, talk about rounding up the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia as a legal state who, by ten years of delay, is bound to pass a law that by 31 December 2008, because if it does not work now, then, that deadline will only extend itself, and Serbia will remain in the uncirced legal system until the end, until the end of the law is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52649	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of Kostunica's former MPs is insisting on proving that Vojvodina is benefiting, and I don't like to say that, a narrow part of Serbia. I have to remind him, in agriculture, what he was talking about, marginal areas are in the so-called. "insecure Serbia". That's a term I don't like to use, but because it's started in some way I have to. In marginal areas to get an incentive for livestock, for sheep, it's enough to have 10 pieces. In Vojvodina, you must have 30. Three times as many. Now I ask the question – what is the marginal area for livestock? Let's just say, for shepherding and for goats, I don't think mountaineering and mountainous areas are marginal areas for shepherding and for goats and for God's sake. The Duke would be a marginal area, if he had to share. Because there's too much plant production in Vojvodina, and too little cattle to use in that plant production. In Serbia, there is a marginal area for corn, soy, wheat, etc., we agree, but it is not for sheep farming. But, for example, we on the Committee have lifted subsidies from 12,000 dinars to 4,000 dinars with the intention of encouraging investment and livestock, fruit growing, etc., of which, fortunately, small agricultural holdings have the most benefits. That they are in one part of Serbia where I don't live a team better for those who win. I'm about to share it that way. Let's move on. When you issue agricultural land, and there are no colleagues, it is obvious that this does not suit him, when you issue agricultural land in that part of Serbia that he claims to be exploited by this northern part of Serbia, when you rent land, you share 40% of the local self-government, 60% of the republic. When you issue land in Vojvodina, incomes are divided differently. The province of Vojvodina gets 30%, 40% gets local self-government, and 30% gets the Republic of Serbia. When money is used to edit land, ataric roads, wells, etc., kosasation, then all incomes of 60% and 40%, in this part of which Mr Lapcevic claims to have been used, are used in so-called. "Hungarian Serbia" farmers. I am in favour of this happening because in that part little agriculture is weaker, but the 30%, which comes from Vojvodina to Serbia's budget, Vojvodina cannot use. The funds can be used by the Republic of Serbia and the 30% and 60% of this second part, all of which are used by the Republic of Serbia in the part I agree is worth supporting agriculture because of small agricultural holdings, and someone also says difficult working conditions. There are several ways we encourage, at least from the Committee on Agriculture, that part of which we want to balance economic opportunities in agriculture. So we took from the pair with big complaints per hectare and transferred to small agricultural holdings for those actions that we believe will raise agricultural production in the fruit industry, in livestock farming, etc., and that's for sure. We may have been wrong about the pair, but the goal is to raise investments, cattle farming so that we can use plant production and that our processing industry has enough meat, milk, eggs to achieve it. Let's move on. The incentives in Vojvodina, the Republic, are 50%, remember that, and when they're in this so-called. "I narrow the part," and I repeat, I do not like to use that term, these incentives are 65%, and we have done this on the Committee with the intention of encouraging agricultural production as much as possible in that part of Serbia to balance agricultural production in both parts of the country. Now, if it was a sin and Mr. Lapcevic objected to it, I had to bring this up, not wanting now that, since the theme of financing the AP Vojvodina, or Article 4, as I recall, was only for transferred jurisdiction and entrusted affairs, so for what the Republic believes, it has to provide finance and with that member I agree with. I don't agree with much law, and I won't vote for him, but I've been obliged to say this. Objections to NIS. Have them ask Borko Stefanovic. He was a negotiator. Let them ask him. He's raising a revolution today, I guess not one NIS. He's left-handed today, he sold NIS, not me. He was the chief negotiator. He sold it for 400 million. Kostunica and Tadic were kidnapping who would sit on the chair. It was like being "South Stream". Since the "South Stream" is gone, and there is no obligation, I did not prescribe a 3% mining rent, but Borko Stefanovic. Let them ask him. Let the Ljotics ask him – what have you set for the 3% mining rent when it's in Russia, it seems to me 22%? Why was it sold for 400 million? Well, it was a state interest, and what was the state interest to them? Let's face it, for them it was a state interest to verify their functions. It all happened before the election. And today, someone whose Prime Minister took part there, along with Borko Stefanovic and Tadic, in the sale of NIS, is complaining about NIS today. I really think that they have that policy – whatever their asses are, their cheeks don't bother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52651	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52652	It doesn't matter who filed this bill, it's plagiarized today anyway. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the 2006 Constitution, the decentralisation system has been set up in a cataract manner. Our constitution knows two autonomous provinces, AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. Much of the territory isn't under that decentralisation system. So one obvious asymmetry that can only introduce and introduce for many years a confusion into our administrative system. If we know that he is currently in Kosovo and Metohija, that the territory of Kosovo and Metohija is currently under occupation, we have in fact only one autonomous province and what is the need for that? Is this some province that is specific to its population, some other elements that are not on the territory of the rest of Serbia? It's not. There live more than two-thirds of the Serbian people. Of course, a certain number of members of national minorities and Serbian radicals have always been full of respect for national minorities and their rights, but respect for the rights of national minorities has nothing to do with the existence of an autonomous province. It has to do with the National Minorities Act. So, the AP Vojvodina is just one bureaucratic apparatus for which jurisdiction is invented, which is abundantly funded and real, in fact, by the state. Mihajlo Djuric prophetically said, a professor at the Faculty of Law, to the 1974 Constitution, that this is the basis for Serbia's disintegration. That's why he was arrested and convicted. What is now the reason for the AP Duke's existence? What's the reason for the flag of the Duke? There's no one. It can only be the basis for further separatism. We who have had experience with this separatism, I speak as a state of Serbia, throughout the 20th century, we must take care of it today, and we must not go over it lightly. Because who could have thought that one day in Montenegro would be difficult to say that you were a Serb without being a Montenegrin? Who could have thought that today the rights of the Serbian people in this new state of Montenegro would be threatened, disrespected and that Serbs as a people would be persecuted? No one could have imagined that 20 or 30 years ago. The existence of AP Vojvodina is exclusively the basis for future separatism in our territory. Serbian radicals are in favour of abolishing the AP, and we will launch a procedure to hold a referendum in which citizens will declare whether they are for the existence of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52653	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we actually approach here a debate of what might best be called improvisation. Using the reason why, under the provisions of the Constitution, the issue of funding of the AP Vojvodina is not legally defined, this is where the proposer comes out with a proposal that is pure improvisation. Namely, the best example for this is this particular Article 6 where the proposing says that out of the total revenue generated on the name of the value added tax and the name of the excise tax, 30% would remain AP Vojvodina. What does that mean in practice? Thirty percent, for example, of excise duties, given that Serbia's Oil Industry headquarters is "Gasprom Nafta" in Novi Sad would mean that it is spent most on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In the name of that fuel consumption, excises are paid, which doesn't fit the real situation at all. That's the same thing when it comes to value added tax. So it came out with a single figure, or one percent, that should tickle those people who, at any moment, expect to live as best as possible, to increase the standard and to finally develop in Vojvodina, as well as in all parts of Serbia, a balanced development of all local self-government, or all regions. Let's see what the proposer's explanation is when it comes to this funding law. They say it would contribute to an even greater development and even development of all parts of the AP Vojvodina. Such a conclusion can be drawn between the ranks. And then they say, in Article 6, that they would be so generous when they make their income based on all these items, such as value added tax, such as excise taxes, when 100% of the AP Vojvodina budget is filled, the surplus would be forwarded to the Federation, i.e. Serbia and Serbia's budget. Imagine the generosity that this is. It's actually that thesis - where are our money? If all the excise money, due to the seat of NIS in Novi Sad, were first added to the province's 30% budget, so that based on 30% of VAT, then public loans, then loans, when the Vojvodina budget was filled in, from that moment on, over 100%, it would all be transferred to the state of Serbia. And there would be a clear answer to where our money is. To be more convincing, officials here say that there is no idea how much Vojvodina as territory contributes to filling the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is no telling how much Vojvodina is using the total funds from Serbia's budget. To this day, no one calculated precisely, nor came out with accurate or approximately accurate data, because it is perfectly natural and logical that the central government is taking care of the even development of all regions in Serbia, including the region called AP Vojvodina, such as the obligation of the AP Vojvodina, administration, more specifically the AP Vojvodina, to take care of the even development of all local units of self-government on the territory of Vojvodina. So, both the Republic of Serbia, the central government, and the AP Vojvodina must not allow anywhere in Serbia to have so-called. Undeveloped municipalities. And what are we attending? Since 2000, in Vojvodina, believe it or not, the number of undeveloped so-called "undeveloped" has increased. Undeveloped municipalities. During the sanctions, during the wars in Vojvodina, you will not believe it was much less undeveloped municipalities than it was after October 5, 2000. Here's an example. In a flat, fertile Vojvodina, you have six undeveloped municipalities. You have the municipality of Titell, which is in the category of undeveloped municipalities. And now, one might think that the reason lies only in an incompetent central government. Most of that, yes, but in the AP Vojvodina in continuity, it's a one-brave, one-brained government for 16 years. Sixteen years was not enough for any of these listed municipalities to be moved from that place, from that category of undeveloped municipalities. What's he saying? This just suggests that hypothetically and passed this law, to adopt this proposal, 30% to apply to the administration of the AP Vojvodina, there would be no shift. It might be in the opposite direction, there might be more underdeveloped municipalities. Why do I set an example for the municipality of Titusl? It is a municipality that, next to the fertile land, is located on two rivers, on the Tisa River directly and directly near the Danube River. The most strategically important place is in the municipality of Titel. Historically, there has always been a struggle for the municipality, for that territory, because it is absolutely a great advantage because of communication, because of development, because of the investments itself of the municipality of Titell. And that's something that's a striking example of how to run the wrong policy. We don't abolize the central government here, the current current current government. And she's guilty enough. Why? Because the elements of that government are at the head of that municipality, until today they have done nothing to move from a dead spot to a municipality, so that this municipality gives as many signs as possible to go to those who are not undeveloped. It's just that the situation is what it is. Now, here some are pushing the thesis that Serbian radicals are unargumented against Vojvodina's autonomy. Serbian radicals are against any autonomy. There must be historical, economic, political and cultural reasons for the existence of autonomy of any part of Serbia. That everything was a provision, as they say in 1945, is best said by the fact that it is illogical that two autonomous provinces exist in Serbia, and that there is no autonomous province in the then federal unit called Croatia. I guess specificity is also present when parts of Croatia are involved. How come then the one-minded, so-called. Communists, didn't take care of members of national minorities living in Istria? How come they suddenly came up with the idea that only Serbia needs autonomous provinces? Come on, let's leave these historic harrases that the Serb people survived. Is there even a valid basis for the existence of an autonomous province in Serbia's territory today? There is no historical reason in Vojvodina. The historic process ended in 1918 in the Great National Assembly, and it was only a turning point back after 1918, and communists knew it when the AP Vojvodina again tried to separate from Serbia. Is there an economic, so out of logic, everyone is trying to integrate, to have a bigger market, so you see that all the big investors in Europe and all the harder to win the market in Belgrade, and what's going on here? In every way, there is a desire to achieve duality, to distance Vojvodina from Belgrade in some way, arguing that all the money is going to Belgrade. Secondly, does it have any basis when it comes to culture? Basically, culture cannot be defined regionally, it cannot be divided by regions. Culture, cultural creation in Vojvodina is in principle cultural creation of the majority Serb people. It is enriched by the culture and cultural fluids of those who live together with the Serb people. Is it justified that more national minorities live in that part of Serbia? The AP administration cannot guarantee the development and security of language, culture, the creation of national minorities. It provides for the Constitution of this state, and two basics. First, the Constitution guarantees them all civil rights like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Second, special rights as members of national minorities. The highest degree has been raised and protected by the right of national minorities, but is being manipulated. Why is he manipulating himself? Because it's grateful. When you miss some arguments, firm arguments, then run and reach for the threat of the rights of national minorities. We're not against Vojvodina. We are not against Kosovo and Metohija, but we are against the autonomy of any area or any region, and that is the essence. Whoever is seriously considering this bill sees that this is a provision that has a completely political background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52655	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above the members and Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of things during these few days of debate, but we haven't heard a single reason why any autonomy on the territory of today's AP Vojvodina is needed. We know that this was a historical reflection of the Serbian people's ambition for autonomy within Hungary and that the project and this desire, above all, had a phase of freedom that was autonomy and the dukedom that were given to Serbs in the then-Hungarian region. The final release and association of the rest of the Serbian people and other Serbian states and what is the Republika Srpska Krajina and what is today Republika Srpska, and the Serbian people are historically entitled to the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dalmatia, Lika, Kordun, many other territories that are not unfortunately part of the Republic of Serbia today, but we are absolutely sure that the time will come when it will be. The autonomy of the Serbian people within the Serbian state is absurd, it is pointless in itself and to call today on what the communist authorities did, which by their nature were anti-Serbian, which were anti-national, and their desire to cut off the wings of the Serbian people, to minimise its importance, that the territories which were undoubtedly Serbian and on which the majority Serb people lived in other countries, to disperse, to build administrative borders that later became states, which today in 2019 were the reason for the autonomy of the Serbian people within the Serbian state. Is there anything more pointless? The Serbian people should finally come to their senses. We do not need any further divisions, and as history teaches us, unfortunately, the Serbian people are prone to all and possible and impossible divisions. What seemed impossible at some historic moment, some today say that reality, the reality with which we Serbian radicals do not rest. Could anyone have guessed that the Serb Muhammadan faith would wait a moment for someone to convince them, first under the communist regime, that they were Muslims, but as a nation, and then rename them to the Bosniaks and that someone would tell them again that they were a special nation? Did anyone think that the Serb Roman Catholics in Dalmatia, where there were enough and where they were, as they say, the perian of Serbia, would convince them that because of their belonging to the Roman Catholic Church and those of some other people and some other nation and that they had become Croats, that they had become the great bloodshed of the Serb people who kept the Orthodox faith? Could anyone have guessed 20 or 30 years ago that a part of the Serb people living in Montenegro, in Serbia's Montenegro, would have convinced that they were also some new nation of Montenegrins or montenegrins, as they prefer to be called, and that today they would care for Serb giants, such as Negos, to sing songs and Serbian poetry and prose written hundreds of years ago? Today, the Serbian state is doing nothing to counter it. How is it possible for someone to say that we have great relations with Montenegro, if denied there, suppressed, destroyed everything that is Serbian? How can we have good relations with the Republic of Croatia that occupied the Republika Srpska Krajina, which reduced the Serb population to several percent, and these percentages don't mean much, because of those few percent, there are a large number of those who have citizenship and have never returned to the places where the Serb people lived before that? It's happening again today that someone explains to us that there are Dukes in Vojvodina. What are the duchess? Who are these people? Could it be the Slovaks, Romanians, Bulgarians, Hungarians living in the area? No, they're not. They're guarding their national belongings. The Serbian people are helping them in all their lives and, as you can see, only other peoples who lived where the majority of the Serb people are still living uninterrupted, continue to cultivate their specialities, which is what the Serb people failed nowhere where they were minority, and even unfortunately in many territories, where they were majorityed, failed to survive. Do we need the Duke's Log, the Duke's Government, the Duke's Academy of Sciences and Arts? You don't have to. The Serbian Academy of Science and Art would be enough. Why isn't there a forest? Why don't the Germans have five or ten Academy of Science? Why don't they have English? Why don't they have other peoples who keep to themselves? Not everyone could fit into the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, so let's invent another one in which people will be admitted regardless of residence, regardless of nationality. Then what does it look like? And what good it can do the Serbian people -- it's absolutely clear, no good. When you have no arguments and can't say why the Serbian people today would seek autonomy within the Serbian state, then you start with frauds about money, so you explain to people that you're not living badly in that part of Serbia because it was an incompetent government in which you participated, because they robbed Vojvodina from the province level, but you say it takes the Republic. He's not taking the Republic, look at the budgets. I, preparing for this discussion, looked at the Sombora City budget, which is three billion dinars - 47,000 inhabitants. New Belgrade has over 600 million dinars, and it's five times bigger. Six times the budget, five times the budget. The circuit administration is also a big deal for us. Nearly 600 million euros, more than half a billion euros a year goes... (President: Bringing the end, colleague Sarovic.) )......................................................................................................... to make the citizens feel better, but to no individual who lives in the area is better, it is only better for those who are in need and who are trying to cover their incompetence by lying to the citizens of Serbia as someone steals them, and the biggest thieves are right on that middle level, which should be abolished immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52657	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52658	Thank you. I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, dignity has been violated here since the previous speaker spoke of Bosniaks as members of the Serb people or Muslims, etc. I would ask, however we respect the majority people and respect the state of Serbia, that others respect other minority nations in this country according to constitutional obligations and categories, which means that Bosniaks are not someone who was a Serb, but someone who has been automatically by historical and other indicators for centuries and centuries since its origins it carries on behalf of the Bosniaks. The other thing is religious commitment and it's not right to mix religious and national. So, I would just ask that a colleague like all other colleagues as we respect what is according to the Constitution, according to the laws, respect one another and another, and that in this way we do not insult and honor other peoples that they are not who they are. Bosniaks by religion belong to Islam, members of Islam, but it is not a national decree and Bosniaks are their national identity the natives of this area as well as Serbs, respecting this state, respecting these laws, feeling members, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbians, but allow not everything in this country to be Serbian but can be Serbian, can be what we all share together, and what we all respect together, we try to keep each other's help in these dreary and cruel times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52659	My colleague, I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I don't believe that colleague Sarovic wanted to insult anyone here in the O.R. He expressed his political stance, and you have at one point made a part of the political position that members of the Serb people living in Serbia are Serbians. No, they're not. They're Serbs. Serbs are wherever they live, whether in the Republic of Serbia, whether in Croatia, whether in Bosnia, whether in Montenegro. You said exactly that. They're Serbs. But I also believe that you had no desire to offend someone, but it was simply a way of expressing it among MPs. Just tell me, do you want the Parliament to make statements on your injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day? Please, just with a yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52660	No, and I did not say that Serbs are Serbians, but members of other peoples and all those living in the Republic of Serbia are Serbians, and members of the Serb people are Serbs wherever they are, wherever they are, in Serbia, in Montenegro, BiH or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52661	Thank you. It's just, do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52662	No, I don't. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52663	Comrade Sarovic, you have no right on any basis. Nemanja Sarovic: He totally misread me. You're a lawyer. When it comes to replicas, you've learned it in detail. So, I gave my colleague my word, and he asked to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is known that when advertising the Rules of Procedure, the MP cannot acquire the right to replication. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52664	So, Mr Arsic, if we are already talking about respecting the MPs and the Rules of Procedure and the 27th and the dignity of the National Assembly, I have not hurt that dignity with anything and to my dear brother, Mr Jahja Fehratovic, I would like to say that everything I have said is just an expression of respect and respect for him personally, but also historical facts. So the biggest disaster that has hit the Serbian people is the very division based on religion. Once a single Serb people's Corps was divided, and these are historical facts. Some may try to falsify the nation. I can give Mr. Jahja literature... (Chairman: colleague Sarovic, please...) )......................................................................................................... Serbian nationalism and book – Criminal enterprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52665	You're out of your right to injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52666	I explain what I said and what the dignity of the National Assembly is. If you've been so patient, Mr. Arsic, that you hear everyone else, that you give countless lines to a replica, I've never once answered the Rules of Procedure, and I've had the right to point out, then don't show your personal animosity to me by not letting me speak. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52667	I'm sorry to interrupt. I have to do this. I broke the Rules of Procedure. In your discussion, you spent the time of the SRS parliamentary group and over that time for four more minutes, and I have not interrupted you, and I have no personal animosity whatsoever. I will also not allow the right not to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be used to make replicas. Nemanja Sarovic throws. I really don't understand you. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. All right. He'll come out. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Belačić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52668	I do not wish to repeat what my colleagues have already explained, but the fact is that this bill on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is contrary to the Constitution and the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. It is not surprising, of course, that such a vicious proposal came from the ranks of the LSV parliamentary group, or one order, to be precise. I am obliged to remind the public that LSV in the 2016 parliamentary elections in the coalition with LDP and SDS Boris Tadic failed to cross the censorship, and that they were in parliamentary benches following the intervention of US Ambassador Kyle Scott, with whom they met intensively in those days, which publicly, secretly, while he was pressuring members of the RIK. It was appropriate, of course, for Kyle Scott to introduce protagonists of the 5th October coup and Euro-Atlanticists, above all, against the ambition of us who represent the national opposition and then representatives of the regime. No wonder members of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina are now trying to repay Scott for joining the National Assembly by trying to awaken certain separatist aspirations in the northern Serbian province. We are, of course, not afraid that this will happen, given that this party does not have the political capacity to cause serious problems, but given how much resources it is necessary to engage for one day of holding a session of the National Assembly, then we consider it extremely irrational of the ruling majority, which is scheduled a session with this agenda. I will remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has repeatedly submitted numerous proposals for the name and addition of the agenda and that our proposals have never been on the agenda, nor will they. I think it's the best indicator of who's here in this room is the true opposition, and who's working with the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52669	Thank you. The title above the member and member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52670	Thank you, Chairman. The point is that the bill we're having today is not to be adopted. The Serbian Radical Party has expressed through the amendments we have submitted to it, which we have proposed to delete all members. In that respect, this amendment is also to Article 10. A bill relating to the education of a commission to monitor the application of the law. The SRS parliamentary group insists that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and prevent the adoption of such a law. Advocacy advocates of the Vojvodina have unequivocally expressed their intentions, and it is in the National Assembly to prevent such intentions, to cut them to the root, because the current circumstances are too much. The existence of the AP government is unnecessary. It's just one administration over. We advocate the maximum autonomy of local self-government, and that is to strengthen all local self-government. Serbia does not need divisions, and making autonomous provinces in Serbia was only a desire to weaken Serbia. This bill would lead to fiscal separatism, which is where it all begins, so we believe that the adoption of this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group should not be called into question, as should all other amendments of our parliamentary group, because our amendments prevent the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52671	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS knows by who knows which way it wants to show the public that this is an unconstitutional law and the real question is here -- how and how and how and why such a law is even on the agenda, especially since it came from an opposition or, better say, so on. opposition groups. We advocate that there should be no provinces in Serbia, because Serbia is a small country anyway, but if we accept the situation as it is, if we leave the Constitution, we all need to know that the main problem of the Serbian state today is not the AP Vojvodina, but it is the AP Kosovo. We know that this part of our country is under occupation and now instead of focusing all our strengths and dealing with the AP Kosovo problem, someone here has come to realize that the AP Vojvodina needs to be discussed, although, fortunately, there is no problem that we have down there in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. So, I want to point out once again that instead of talking about KIM, how and how to implement Resolution 1244, how to return to Kosovo 1,000 police officers and 1,000 customs officers, we've been making fun here, here's another week, of a law that's unconstitutional and that shouldn't have been on the agenda at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52673	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, we heard the legislator of this bill that the AP Vojvodina and the Vojvodina villages are victims of transition and that young people go to EU countries. Of course, this applies not only to the AP Vojvodina, but also to other parts of Serbia. We need to realize that young people are leaving our country looking for better quality living conditions. The position of the SRS is clear and unequivocal, that this bill is unconstitutional, that it must not be adopted and that all the proposed members should be deleted. The financing of the AP Vojvodina was arranged by Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, until this unconstitutional proposal can never be put into effect or implemented. The proposal is contrary to the Law on the Budgetary System, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2006 and it is true that the citizens of the AP Vojvodina boycotted the adoption of the Constitution and only 11% voted in favour of such a constitution. It was a purely political compromise to bring the constitution to light even though it was boycotted by the AP Vojvodina. With this proposal, part of a country's territory with seven million inhabitants is wanted to be a state in the country and all revenues remain the AP of Vojvodina, and of course, with the problem of expanding such a requirement to the rest of Serbia, because there are more and more people who want to, both in Serbia and outside it, to disperse it and to bring it down to the Belgrade Pashalu. Serbian radicals clearly and loudly say there will be no divisions, that Serbia will not be a state with two governments and two presidents. Tax policy must be unique at the level of the entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52675	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52676	Thank you. I have to, even though I didn't think I was answering for a word anymore, to intervene, because something that was said here for the first time is true, which is that the young leave Serbia. Most of them are emigrated to the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria, and then to overseas countries. Austria has eight and a half million inhabitants and has nine provinces. Germany has 82 million inhabitants, 16 provinces in whose jurisdiction are police, education, culture, municipal affairs and each of them has its own constitution, legislative, executive and judicial authority. If you don't understand what the people of this country want, so they have to look outside this country, then think about what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52677	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52678	Given that we have reached the last amendment, I will repeat some of the SRS' views and in some way round the whole story of these two proposals and the discussions that we have had for three days, today is the third day and the debate in which mostly the SRS MPs participated in the arguments. Because this is very important to us and that we didn't take this as some agenda for our sake, we've already seen it as a kind of warning. Politically, a few things should be pointed out when it comes to the proposal of this law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the Proposal for a Resolution on Vojvodina, as it stands in the very name and very symptomatic, the first day here was already said that these two proposals were actually plagiarized by Aleksandra Jerkov, and then Aleksandra Jerkov in the media intervened, rebelling, so she said, for several months already, she defended these proposals, but behold, the proposals came to the agenda only when she, she said, was taken by Nenad Canak. Then, during the debate, we learned, in fact, that Aleksandra Jerkov is a plagiarizer, because she plagiarized proposals that were adopted in the province government in 2015 at the time Bojan Pajtic was president. Then, when all these actors are rounded up, then we actually come to one logical conclusion that it's all like that we don't actually have any plagiarism here, but we have a CIA bill and resolution that applies to the AP Vojvodina. What we also want to highlight, and we have repeated, all of us who have spoken from the SRS, that, primarily for the sake of the public, for the people to hear, we Serbian radicals against the autonomy of Vojvodina. We stand for autonomy, maximum autonomy of local self-government. We think that some, as they call it, middle power has no purpose whatsoever, that in fact only the provincial government is another imposition on the Republic of Serbia's budget, that nothing at this level actually decides is anything that can go through and should not pass past the Government of the Republic of Serbia and beyond that main one, let me say, the main level. That's our opinion from before. We are in favour of unitary Serbia and we have always advocated, of course, in the current circumstances we want and advocate and we have put forward a proposal to preserve KIM within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have not forgotten and will never forget the Republika Srpska Krajina, confident that one day it will also become part of the single Serbian state, as well as Republika Srpska. This is a message from BiH, which increasingly raises its head against Republika Srpska, not to play, that Republika Srpska has its own queen, who is certainly not going to let go. We have also spoken, and I repeat, that both of these proposals are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, when it comes to the Bill of Finance, that it is contrary to the two system laws relating to this area, these are the Laws on the Budgetary System and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. When you look closely and carefully, although it may seem in part that these proposals are harmless, because some members of the Constitution are quoted, but they are essentially very dangerous and could be seen especially during the debate. This is, we said that already, once this law was passed, this would really be fiscal separatism, and such separatism could always lead to that much worse, much more dangerous, we were already talking about, both politically and legally. We are confident, of course, that this will not happen and that we should all make a great contribution and a great effort not to let such a thing happen, that all such aspirations in the root are remembered, respecting everyone's right and, in particular, the right of the MPs, that they can propose to the National Assembly the adoption of the law. But somehow it's not good when out of the over 200 laws that are in the procedure, I mean, which are proposed by the MPs, and they're in the main laws, I honestly haven't looked at all these proposals in detail, because there's a lot of those who have just been proposing for the sake of making those shows out of the multi-hour adoption of the agenda, so probably not those MPs, who are not currently in the O.R., they themselves didn't really know what they were suggesting. But really in those 200 and I don't know how many suggestions, there are very serious proposals and they should have been discussed. We are even convinced that the MPs of the majority, listening to the voice of the people, if they communicate with the people as MPs, would have to vote in favour of some of these proposals. In addition to such high-quality suggestions, you've put these two proposals on the agenda for our unknown reasons, but we're not naive to know why you did it. This is a good way to please outside those you need to please, and also in internal politics. So now you can, I'm talking about the congregation majority, you can say nice -- here's how we're broad-minded, democratic, we put on the agenda Nenada Chanka's proposals. We're not voting for that. The MPs discussed who wanted to take part in the debate. On the other hand, not you, but the representatives of the government, these openers, the closures of the chapters, they will then tell Mcalister and Kocijančić, here we have done what you ask of us, and they are asking you to do this and we have put it on the agenda, but, behold, the MPs did not vote this time, but we will sort it out a little bit, redecorate it, so we will re-arrange it one day and we will adopt it again, to please both of you. That's actually why you put these two proposals on the agenda. If not, I will remind you of some draft laws that are of great importance to all citizens of Serbia and that you do not put on the agenda even though the SRS MPs have been proposing them for several months in a row. First of all, the Law on Putting Off the Power of the Law on Public Executors. I do not think there is a man in Serbia, or even MPs who voted in favour of this law, and these are not MPs of the current government, but they were MPs who were the ruling majority before your first ruling majority, but that neither they nor you, that there is no man today in Serbia who is not appalled by what public executioners are doing. I'm going to use this now, because I'm asking you why this isn't on the agenda, to remind the public that this Law on Public Executives was brought in 2011, that then DS, which afterwards appears in its various forms, and now they're reuniting, that they've prepared public executioners from their ranks, so that in one formal contest, which it wasn't, that these Democrats were set up for public executioners, and then you came forward. Instead of doing what you said in the campaigns, instead of putting that law out of force, to get the executions back in the jurisdiction of the courts, you just brought your perpetrators, you added the number where they failed before you and so now you're together harassing through your perpetrators who do the most terrible things, which have nothing to do with the law or the executions. It happens, there's talk about it every day, that the contractor sells his apartment to his son, someone's apartment, throws a family out on the street. It happens that apartments worth 50,000 euros are sold to settle a debt of 10,000 euros. They sell to a known buyer for 30,000 euros, so they share the money with someone from the bank who gave them the information. It's now developed into a dangerous business. It's a dangerous business for bank officials to have their own contractors, to inform them when the bank will put up an apartment for sale. Notify how much of a debt it is to the bank so that they can treat themselves, because the bank doesn't care what it puts the family on the street, and what if the National Bank allowed it, and what if the ruling majority allowed it, and what if you accepted from the authorities the banks that Dinkic brought you to Serbia to destroy our people. You all keep your mouth shut, and you don't want to put on the agenda the bill we gave you so we can all discuss it together, let the citizens hear, let the public hear what we think about it and offer solutions. We Serbian radicals have solutions, but put the law on the agenda so we can solve that problem. We have proposed to put aside the Labour Act, so birds on the border know that the Labour Act that has been in force for several years, which you have brought to be brought and written exclusively in the interests of employers. Who are the employers? Which foreigners? The ones you're giving our money to open up some drives here. No, no factory in Serbia is open. You can talk as much as you want your president. No factory in Serbia is open. There's been more power plants open. For the opening of these facilities, serious funds plus free municipal infrastructure are obtained, people who work for more than ten times less money than those companies would pay in their home country. When money is spent from the budget, since these plants are mostly in some installation facilities, no large cost has been paid by the one who opened it, or who came as an investor under quotes, and it goes well for four, five, six years, they carried their profits nicely. There's no tax in this country. The contributions are minimal because people work for a guaranteed profit that's about 27,000 dinars, so I don't know how you get 460 euros out, or how much as an average salary, unless you've collected it, so you forgot to split it. So we also proposed a law to encourage agriculture, we proposed a law to help families with children. So we have proposed laws that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia, who are interested in this people, whose changes we would really contribute to making people live better in this country of Serbia and we are proposing in continuity, for months of God's age, but to discuss KIM in the National Assembly, to finally hear both the precise and decadent position of government about it, and we Serbian radicals certainly have a solution and we talk about it in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52679	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52680	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, parliamentary debate. Those who complain about the lack of parliamentary debate are not here today. As you can see, they escaped. The Duke was important to them, not to regulate the financing. This was their proposal from 2013 and 2015. The government of Vojvodina was led by Bojan Pajtic. In the Republic, they ruled both when, but there was Borko Stefanovic, Gilas and Jeremic. While they ruled, Vojvodina was of no importance to them. They didn't discuss this document at the Vojvodina Assembly either. The Serbian Parliament has made an effort to discuss this proposal and should be commended. In a certain way, it is necessary to respect the promoter, regardless of our relations with each other. But the interesting thing is that those who complain about the lack of debate have escaped from the debate, that they have missed the opportunity to turn around live Serbian citizens for five hours here. This is an important topic. They underestimate her, I don't. This is a very important topic, and it would be important that we also discussed Šumadija, Macva, southern Serbia, Braniceva, Srem, Banat, regardless of what part of Serbia's territory we are discussing, it is a very important topic for citizens not only of these territories, but for citizens of all Serbia. The state is the property of its citizens, not the property of its government. As much as they wanted to turn to the citizens, they missed the chance to talk about it for five hours. It's the same Alexandra Jerkov, who was here as she was, and that's how she passed the law. She was speaking in the hall of the National Assembly that it was her bill, and it wasn't hers. She missed the chance to come here to prove it was her proposal to defend him. She didn't want it. Why? She did not want to resent Ljotics, the union of thieves and frauds and Ljatics, who are walking around Serbia, wanting not to discuss parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or Serbia, but rather want to exclude some parts of the territory and break up the unity of the people, break down the state of Serbia. She's walking with them, not me. The people of Vojvodina should know, and in Serbia about its hypocrisy, that they have the right, as they should know about the hypocrisy of Gilas, who talked about Vojvodina all the worst. About the hypocrisy and evil intentions of Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic. It's that Borko Stefanovic, the escalator. That's how I met him, and then suddenly something crossed. That's the one who sold NIS and then defended labour rights. Then he goes with Gilas Millionaire. What kind of left of Serbia that walks and walks with millionaire Gilas with a man who has emptied the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Most of them aren't in the debate today. Tomorrow they'll be complaining about censorship and they could have been live for five hours. They missed that opportunity with the intention of complaining about media freedom. What is the freedom of the media in which Bosko Ljotic, with whom Marinika Tepic and Aleksandra Jerkova and Borko Stefanović and Vuk Jeremic, is what is the freedom of the media when the Latvian fascist palace enters RTS and they say – you will show me where it is directed, you will broadcast me etc. Don't they think it's censorship? Whether the freedom of the media is to take over the media, arrest the owners, attempt to take over REM, etc. That's how you don't get to freedom of the media. They'll complain about censorship and lack of freedom of the media. They missed the opportunity to address Serbian citizens, plus replicas at this session for at least five to six hours, plus injuries to the Rules of Procedure, etc. I wish they were here, but it's probably Wolf Jeremic who regrets not taking more money than Patrick Ho. Borko Stefanovic, Mrs Jerkov and Mr Pajtic probably regret not taking more money from the pockets of the citizens of Vojvodina, money intended for technological development, infrastructure construction, etc. Likely Jeremic regrets that Patrick Ho was given three years in prison today and received three years in prison, and it explains that he was making these suspicious businesses through ties to the UN. We know his relationship was a Wolf Jeremy. Perhaps Vuk Jeremic combed those seven and a half million dollars, looking anxiously at the UN road, as there are no more Patrick Hos, no more cigarettes perhaps of 1,500 euros in boxes. Maybe there's no role-playing, maybe there's a role-playing Patrick Hoa, so he remembers warmly and believes the next protests will be for Patrick Hou, because that's not the democratic America who arrested him and convicted him. Bosko Ljotic, along with Borko Stefanovic, Marinika Tepic and Aleksandra Jerkov. They march together, they take TV. They're not free from any TV that doesn't belong to Gilas, and half free is anyone where Gilas sells the commercial, and all other TVs aren't free. Last night we watched a football game, past the regulations, on two Gilas channels, which do not cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and do not meet the conditions to transfer Serbia's football team. But with them, everything is free when Gilasov is, all that is folk is not free. They're for Vojvodina when they're in Novi Sad, but they can't show it in public. They are for Ljotics, when they are in Belgrade, persistently wanting to double the foundations of the Republic of Serbia. She is not present today, some of these solutions are acceptable, but since the Vojvodina Assembly has not discussed this either, since her creator, Aleksandra Jerkov, says that she is the creator of this, has not found it appropriate today to come at least to say something in favor of this, since Marinika Tepic has not come to say anything, because she has become a court servant at the court of Djikler and other Raja, since the two have not come, some of these solutions are acceptable to me, but in general I will not vote for this proposal. I say to the citizens of Serbia, don't waste your voice on those who don't want to represent your interests, whether it's regional parties and regional ideologies, whether it's republican. Whoever believes in Djikler, another Ridjeg, who believes in Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, who believes that they will take them to a better future tomorrow, and they robbed her yesterday, he is mature for psychiatrists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-26-0.u52681	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. In accordance with Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 26 March 2019, starting at 15 and 15 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda points of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Before we move on to a decision on the bill, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia adopts a law whereby the Republic of Serbia trusts the AP and units of local self-government with individual issues in its jurisdiction with the majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, in principle. I conclude the vote: for the vote – nine, against – 119, abstention – one, did not vote 10, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 1st, which was submitted by the Verse of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. It finds that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 and Article 3 submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above the members and Article 8 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above the member and member of the 10th, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, in general. I conclude the vote: for – eight, v – 121 abstention – one, did not vote nine, out of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Since the National Assembly is a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – 126, abstention – one, did not vote nine, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the motion for a resolution, in principle. I put the amendments to the title of the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the name of the resolution and the positions 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, and 9, which were submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote amendments to points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments 8 and 9 to the vote. A motion for a resolution with a correction, submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to item 9 of the 1st item tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to point 2. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put the amendments to paragraph 3 to the vote. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put the amendments to item 9(4) of the amendment to the vote. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to item 9 of point 5 to vote. The motion for a resolution, submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a resolution in general. I put to the vote the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – 129 abstentions – there is no, no vote seven, of a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Vojvodina, in general. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on March 20th, at 15 hours and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 68. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on March 21st, at 10 o'clock and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 March, at 12 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda points of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. (The session ends at 15.) 30 hours. )
