ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61648	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have a quorum to work and that we can continue with the session. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gjorge Komlenski and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 7 to 9 of the agenda. We move to a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the Proposal for an Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Proposal for an Alternative Investment Funds Act. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Siniš Mali, Finance Minister Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Filip Shanovic, acting as Assistant Minister of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Principles on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, the Proposal for a Law on Open Investment Funds with a Public Offer and the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds. Does the motionary's representative, Mr. Sinisha Mali, the finance minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61649	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, the honourable MPs, today you have three draft laws and this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, a draft law on open investment funds with a public offering and a draft law on alternative investment funds. Before I go into the details of the laws themselves, I would like to point out that with responsible policy we managed to bring our public finances into order, fill in the empty register, which was left to us by those before us and create a space to solve the decades-old problems we inherited. Achieved results speak for themselves. I'd only list a few macroeconomic indicators. GDP growth in July this year is 4.4%, unemployment rate 10.3%. We expect this unemployment rate to drop and that we will have a single-digit rate as early as next year. One of the world's most prestigious financial magazines, Financial Times, announced that Serbia is the number one in the world when it comes to direct foreign investment with 3.5 billion euros in 2018, while we expect even better results this year. Our good results are confirmed by one of the three largest rating agencies in the world "Fitch ratings". At the end of last week, the agency increased our country's credit rating from BB to BB plus, which is another confirmation that we have successfully implemented reforms. I am particularly pleased that in their statement, they pointed out that the improved currency structure of the public debt, primarily due to the decrease in the interest of the dollar debt, which was largely affected by the early purchase of dollar bonds in June this year. The funds achieved by a new Eurobond emission on the international financial market were purchased prematurely from previously issued dollar bonds totalling $1.1 billion and favourable conditions in the international financial market for capital, at the lowest interest rate of 1.5%. We've never had a lower interest rate, and with a 10-year maturity. Our country's public debt was 51.9% of GDP at the end of August, while just a few years ago it was over 70% of GDP. In addition, we achieve lower borrowing costs. The average weighted interest rate on total portfolio debt was 3.4% today and in 2016 was 4.5%. It's the best indicator that we've put our trust in our country. Someone might say it's not enough, but we disagree. We believe that, especially in the coming period, it is important for us to develop the capital market, and today you have three laws, which are very important for the development of this market. The World Bank's comprehensive reports, which included all key institutions and ministries in the Republic of Serbia, include both the NBS and the Central Register and the Securities Commission, the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the Treasury Administration, the Public Debt Administration and others, concludes that there is no simple short-term solution for the development of the capital market. On the other hand, as part of the global growth agenda, so-called The World Bank estimates that the GDP of the Republic of Serbia can grow even to 7% annually and that a significant part of that growth is conditioned by the development of the capital market and by increasing the degree of financial inclusion. In addition, the development of the capital market is an essential prerequisite for meeting the obligations undertaken under the negotiating chapter 9 - financial services, in terms of further harmonisation of domestic rules with EU rules. In view of the above, the Finance Ministry, in co-operation with the institutions listed above, established a working group in the middle of this year tasked with creating a new strategy for the development of the capital market. The strategy mentioned is aimed at creating a favourable, regulatory, institutional and business framework that will represent a driving force for the further development of the private and public sectors in Serbia, in the years and decades to come. What gives particular weight to this activity is the fact that all international partners, including the EBRD and the UNDP and the World Bank, have already expressed unequivocal support for this process and made concrete proposals for co-operation on the development of the capital market in our country. The law on investment funds and the Law on Alternative Investment Funds that are in front of you today is the first but very important step in the process of further strengthening the Serbian economy, its diversification and the creation of new business opportunities for both domestic and foreign investors. The basic objectives of passing these laws are the following. First, providing conditions that can attract more market participants and more intensive trade, as well as providing greater security to foreign investors, while the domestic market will be more attractive to investment. Second, providing access to additional alternative sources of funding for micro, small and medium-sized companies. Third, ensuring mutual compliance with the two laws governing different types of institutions for collective investment of companies to manage them. Fourth, the fulfilment of the obligation under negotiating Chapter nine, financial services, in terms of further harmonisation of domestic regulations with EU rules. The most important amendments to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering are the following. First, the purchase of investment units can be made through payments in dinars and foreign exchanges, and the investment unit is a portable financial instrument. Secondly, with the previous agreement of the Commission, the possibility of investing up to 100% of the net assets of an open investment fund in transferable securities from the values and instruments of the money market of which it is a publisher, or guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, the National Bank of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, another state or a public international body to which one or more members belong under certain conditions. Third, the possibility of setting up a special form of organization so-called a roof fund consisting of two or more sub-funds. Fourthly, the introduction of the structure of the main and accompanying fund, so-called Master Fider, when he gets permission from the board, by following an open fund, can invest at least 85% of his assets in the main fund. Fifthly, there is a detailed prospectus, fund rules and key information. The sixth, instead of castodi banks and castodi services, concepts accepted in the EU - depositary and depositary services are introduced. The draft law on alternative investment funds defines the establishment, operation and operation of companies for the management of alternative investment funds, as well as the establishment, organisation and management of alternative investment funds, further, a series of alternative investment funds, transactions and the competence of depositaries and the competence of the Commission for securities of value. Today, the honourable MPs and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act are before you. The proposed changes and additions seek to bring the deposit insurance system into line with best international practice and standards, as well as EU legal assets, in the context of significantly improved financial stability. Before I move on to the objectives of this law, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this week, the Deposit Insurance Agency has published an ad for the settlement of the claims portfolio at the expense of eight banks in bankruptcy, as well as claims managed by the AOD and worth 1.8 billion euros. Earlier in June this year, the first package of problematic loans worth 240m euros was sold for the first time in 18 years. It's about property that's been trapped for decades and that's how we finally activate and return to business flows. I will also remind you that in 2015, a strategy for resolving problematic loans was adopted, and that after that, the level of problematic loans in the banking sector in Serbia was reduced by more than 20%, as much as 22% to below 5%, i.e. 4.98%, which is in August this year. When it comes to the objectives of this law, we have multiple and expect multiple positive effects, a contribution to the stability of the financial system with the strengthening of public confidence in the financial system, an incentive to reduce the level of risk in the business of banks, with a fairer approach to the account of the deposit guarantee premium paid by banks, the improvement of the position and protection of depositors, as well as an increase in the efficiency of the deposit insurance system and finally, the improvement of the sustainability of the fund's financing for deposit insurance. The most significant amendments provided for in those amendments and additions to this law are as follows. First, the introduction of the possibility of calculating the premium and based on the level of risk in bank operations. Second, the change in the basis for the calculation of regular and extraordinary premiums, so that, instead of the total guaranteed deposits of natural persons, the entrepreneurs of micro, small and medium-sized legal persons, the premium is calculated on the guaranteed amounts of banks' deposits up to 50,000 euros, i.e. by ensuring the covered amounts of deposits of those secured categories. This approach, of course, is fairer and therefore we apply it and propose it in this law. The third change is the definition and regulation of the new target amount of the Deposit Insurance Fund and the extension of the deadline for reaching the target amount. Four, an increase in the maximum amount of the emergency premium from 0.4 to 0.5 per year and the introduction of an additional position which, with the consent of the NBS, the Agency may decide on a higher rate of emergency premium, as well as the introduction of provisions that, at the request of the bank, the NBS may decide to postpone payment of an emergency premium up to six months if payment of the premium would jeopardise liquidity or insolvency of the bank. Finally, this law introduces and separate cover of depositors in the event of merger or bank accession for each of the banks in particular in a limited but publicised period of time, so that the secured depositors of the merged banks, in case they had deposits in each of these banks, enjoy a separate coverage of up to 50,000 euros in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the bank. In the coming days, honourable MPs, we will discuss these bill proposals and I urge you to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61650	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would ask, since it is now in the role of the chairman, Mr. Marinkovic, to tell me why the creator of these laws did not call for a session? Because it is not Sinisa Mali, he is a proponent on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and a real creator, who made a complete concept not only of this but also of other financial laws is an alleged NGO, in fact a pro-government organisation behind which is the US state, USAID which issued a statement two years ago and in which it says – a team of USAID projects for better business conditions has presented the concept of a bill on alternative investment funds, officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Securities Commission. The meeting primarily focused on agreements on comments on this concept, which was delivered by the working group. So, they did within this American organisation of the USAID task force, and it's probably familiar to you, because you have good contacts with them, I suppose, Mr Marinkovic himself, and you're probably very sorry for Scott who left Serbia. But later on, when I read some names, you probably know them well, which are the creators of both these laws and other financial laws signed by Sinisha Mali and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and here the congregation majority received a warrant to praise it, there they read talk, reasoning, someone talks and some free interpretation. Anyway, you MPs need to know whose laws you vote for. So, American pro-government organizations. Furthermore, they say two years ago from USAID – compliance with EU rules has been assessed in the context of the USID compliance table, comparing Serbian regulations with relevant EU directives, and in particular with the directive, we will discuss this later and after the amendments, and has helped to conduct a public debate with a number of industry and investment funds during the design of the concept. Since the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Securities concluded that there are no more open questions, they are in all agreement with the USID Working Group, USAID has asked for access to the draft text of the law. Now, who are these people? These USAIDs, who are informal managers of certain financial flows, see also the legal frameworks in Serbia, have their names and names. You, if you are interested as MPs when you type in "USAID Serbia" you will find that they are under the US Embassy, that their headquarters is in Belgrade, but you will not easily find this information that I have here, because it takes some more skillful search. These are people who have their direct influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministries, not only this, but also on Zoranino and other ministries, and they are related to certain projects and organisations that want to implement their policies and policies, as they say, in the fruit with those from Brussels, the EU and the directives here in Serbia, which you do not dispute, you agree with, it is good for you, they are your friends, and we say that they bring nothing good to Serbia, that Serbia is one market of cheap labour, resources that we have, thank God, in abundance, but we cannot so easily hand them over to world powers and oligarchs who so wish to manage, even through investments in these investment funds that will later be spoken of. So you, Mr. Marinkovic, should have called for a session today at Dragan Stanojevic's. She's the project manager or she was, but this is the data that I believe is still true, if not all of them, you know who this project director is now, for better business conditions, and she came from the post of deputy director of the USAID program for improving bankruptcy and execution. Imagine, she had very good references, otherwise a licensed bankruptcy manager, what kind of a weird set of circumstances? Dusan Vasiljevic, deputy Dragana Stanojevic, has long been involved in the USAID projects. They were all at the moment when they made the concept of these two laws and presented it to the government and the director of the team for macroeconomic policy and public finance management of the USAID project. Milan Stefanovic was hired as an expert in economic regulation and economic governance, Sandra Rodic, in the same project as a financial market development expert, especially the capital market, etc., not to read. These are now some more or less technical persons, and then it's really weird, you have these places, you've been calling for a session of the Serbian Parliament, and also at the government's session, those advisers, who are the enemies of Serbs, why aren't they here? Now the question is, Mr. Minister, who's going to believe this story? By the way, I'm like the MPs of the SRS, we've submitted a number of amendments. Believe every member of this bill and every other fund, we could have submitted one amendment, and then it would have been endless, since these laws have 200-300 members. We, you will understand our message, if not, we will tell you when it is in particular, that by submitting amendments, we want to make it clear to you that Serbia is not the country that needs to have the legislation created by USAID and the EU, that all that is expressed in this law and the other legislation is translated by those who gave it to you and we have watched how it was done in these countries, as you would say, in the environment and what these laws are. It's all the same, only in their language with more or less some deviations. Why is that a question for us now? Well, because the concept of the SRS programme is exactly how we should rely on investments and projects to come from traditional Serbian friends, not exclusively from EU companies and their potential investors. Of course, that capital market is free and everyone would say – well, what do you have against now, as you know to say, as our political opponents, and you are in power, what have you and you come to? Well, we have, gentlemen, because the profitability of these factories is such that it satisfies that these workers who have received these factories that have received subsidies for each job have mostly low wages and profits. You, and I don't argue with you, like none of us, have begun the exposure today by praising the successes of your financial monetary policy and what you've done so far. The truth is actually different. You should ask yourself, Mr. Mali, if it is such an inflow now, as you say, foreign investments, if these duties for each job have exceeded the huge numbers that could have been invested in a different way, then tell us if you have the desire that one day they will leave our market, because they are not even some high-tech, except for some, of course, there are exceptions, but, more or less, they are factories that require both simple labour and wages are very small and this minimum that you advocate and who you are pompously talking about, which is probably most, 90% of the employees in these companies that you brought along with investments and subsidies, have 30,020 and some dinars, and it takes a minimum of 37,000 dinars, how much is the average consumer basket. When you say the average consumer basket, then it means that it's only basic for a person's survival at some medium prices, and you have to watch actions and discounts, contained. If you want to afford everything else to your underage children, your other family members who don't work, then you need a few more tens of thousands of dinars, and just explain, here's the pensions, there's Mr. Colakovic and those from PUPS, how is it possible to stretch these 30,000 dinars to what's minimal, which is 37,000 dinars, how much is the average consumer basket? And then people hope that our businesses, as you said, will have the possibility that through the adoption of these laws and through the alternative investment funds, they will come to the funds and capital to speed up their production for new strataps, to create new jobs, I guess that means that, and then we come to that when you're already entering the pre-election campaign and the elections are on the threshold, to tell us nicely, Mr. Mali, how many businesses in Serbia so far and at what percentage within the total investment and participation in GDP of Serbia have invested out of their own resources, because there is indeed a company, there is also in my native Kragujevac, here, there is in nearby Arandevec, and in Topol. I'm moving in those frames, but they're all over Serbia, you know, Mr. Marinkovic, both in Zemun and large family companies. If they had accumulated their capital and healthy work, they were not in debt with the banks, why now they do not have much more investment than they do in such or similar companies, here, in the west of the EU, and they are not allowed to do so in Serbia? Why can't they? Because they're still afraid of certain uncertainty. It's easy for those who come from the West, Mr. Mali, who get these subsidies for opening jobs. It's easier for them. These of us, so if you offer them that too, they just know better the opportunities here and they still know that there is still a huge social uncertainty rate in our population. Because the fact that someone may have an average salary in Serbia, including two household members, does not give him any certainty today in Serbia that he will live better or that he can plan something in the long term, because it is absolutely such a situation and you cannot say that full economic stability has been achieved, compared to those who stole, robbed and who are beginners bringing in those with large capital to buy factories across Serbia. Even to this day, here you are, you'll probably know better than that, it wasn't explained before "Dunav Food" group and selling by this company "My Company" or what it's called, now the owner of "Pepsi" as regards "Knjiz Miloša", "Bambia" and these huge capitalists, as they ever, these yellow ones, came to this dirty money, they said that this Russian enemy and tycoon Berezovski were just the business manager, or "Salford Group". How did they come to own a newly-sad, Saturday milkmaker, "Knjiz Miloša", "Bambia" and now, right, Mr. Marinkovic, multiple sales on the market, since the property has been changed twice? We do have an open interest that through these ways of investment only, because you insist on this bill and your exposure, foreign investors from the West will come up with that they will also place prey on what is interesting to them in Serbia and that through the structure of the economy they will mainly rely on where their high profitability is, not caring for other accompanying things in Serbia. We prefer that we have close co-operation with national investment and ultimately business, but which have been checked by funds, from these friends of our country, which are primarily China, Russia and the countries of the Eurasian Union. Isn't it enough fact and enough message for you, because they have no claim to our country's territory, on the contrary, unlike these enemies who want to take Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia, they protect us, defend us, everywhere and in every place. Well, normally, if they founded their investment fund a few years ago, I think Russia and China together, President Si and President Putin, of course, revealed it to the whole world, with a large initial capital that has so far reached who knows how many tens of billions of dollars, that we're going to advocate something like that here in Serbia. After all, both our joint partnership and the establishment of the Serbian-Chinese Investment Fund, everything we can from the funds that operate in Russia to ask for our agriculture to develop, because this is the biggest problem in Serbia, which is the waste of villages, which we have deprecated land, which our peasant cannot teach just as easily in that cooperative that is founded. What's he going to do, come into a 100-pound cooperative of apples with 10 kilos of cheese, and I don't know what? They have to get a boost, but it won't bring in projects like this. The Serbian peasant has not yet recognised the will in the Serbian government's policy to restore the role of Serbian village landownership to being strong. Only when we have a strong Serb village, when we know that they will be able to join together, produce and export that food, will we be sure to move something along the way. Because, you know, when you in that food-produced cell, which gives, fertilizes, after all, the country, which is doing that reproduction and that is renovating and the stock fund and everything else, when you do it to revive the Serb village in that way, then you will be sure that Serbia has a future. So, through all these projects, through the uncertainty of business, here, yesterday you mentioned and said -- well, you know, we have to continue the continuity of what someone else did, when you were talking about "Fiyat," so did you hear about the harmful contracts per state and one nation at a time? The state and how much damage there is. It was there the other day and Minister Djordjevic, 2.7 billion dinars are given to the Fiat subsidy, perhaps now and more this year, and then they pay it in the name of taxes and contributions to the Republic of Serbia's budget. In fact, they're not paying anything, they're giving it back, and that's how it spins. I see, you're looking at me, Mr. Marinkovic, but I still have time. As for these investment funds, Serbian citizens need to know that many individuals are without this, and without taking credit in banks, and we call on such ones, here are some bright examples in some parts of Serbia that live, as we say, in the diaspora, came and invested their money. What does it take to invest in Serbia to make it profitable? Besides, we have to invest a lot more in the food industry. We don't see here, and in all those who made this project for you, and I followed how they reacted from the Association of Businessmen of Serbia and some financial sectors, it's mostly where they hope it will be for so-called. The IT sector and some other investment, and we need to have what our raw materials are processed into a finished product and that we can sell it, here, we say almost everything, in the big Russian market. Before the departure of Miroslav Lazanjski as ambassador to Russia, we had a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and not only me as a member of the SRS, here, there was a colleague Palalić, we said that our businessmen, well, in the end, individual producers who have better production, small farm, food products, can't easily come into contact with Russian companies, and they can't possibly come across these companies that will manage these funds and that we need a much bigger relationship, we can't even hope that everything will be sold in Moscow, although they might, they may not be interested in that, but there are other parts of Russia where and how our companies can work. There, that would be the future. After all, and all these investments that the Chinese government made, on the other hand, and I said that their investment national fund is the strongest in the world, that's what hurts Americans, but it's just like that and they can't do anything about it. They could have been through much larger investments in Serbia and they were interested, but no one did anything, you gave that one to Nikolic, the failed president, huge money to run some team, so he promised a meat factory in Kragujevac. Before that, you promised that this "Tenis" would come to Serbia, there is nothing. So, let's just focus a little on what the situation really is like in Serbia and how the village is falling and how many people are out of work, and we want them to work. Don't just talk about this data that you're doing, of course, it's your policy, but go a little deeper into what the real structure is and what's the pain of the Serbian economy. You may have wondered, Mr. Minister, which you said earlier, that this is a way for them to reach capital, not to be in debt with business banks. Why aren't they in charge? Well, because all Serbian banks failed, destroyed and wiped out after October 5th. If there were such banks and there was a development bank, what should they do about these sides that Dinkic brought in? In the end, explain to us, Mr. Minister, what specific Serbian companies can expect through the arrival of such investors by the concept of this law, whether you have a realistic picture of what could be projects, what the profit is in the next five or ten years, that the market will develop the most. In such a way that you can give us some argument, not just these laws that absolutely mean nothing, but they are the project of all those who do not want Serbia well. I would have ended it, Mr Marinkovic, if it were not only the case for the Serbian government to accept in this way, mostly broad arms and open heart everything that comes from the EU, including the Americans, this USAID. We see that you are prepared to enter into negotiations absolutely as obedients... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61652	Time's up. I've extended over two minutes. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61653	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, the laws that are before you today are the result of very careful analysis, very long-term work, and a large number of institutions. The task force that has prepared these laws before you today consists of the following state institutions: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Office of Ministers without the portfolio for Innovation and Technological Development, the Office of the Prime Minister, the NBS, the Securities Commission, the Tax Administration. We also included those whose laws mean a lot to, and these are market participants: the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Banks of Serbia. We also had consultants, people from USAID and the Council of Foreign Investors who have also helped us to prepare this non-simple matter, which is very important for the further development of the capital market and the growth of our economy in the right way, and we are proposing to you today. What is very important is that these laws were also at a public debate, therefore, as the law requires, and that we heard suggestions from all interested parties. Based on all these laws that are before you today are what the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is behind and I think they are absolutely the best and will be a driving force for further growth in our economy and capital markets. The growth of our economy is the main objective of the economic policy that we will be leading in the next period, which we are already leading. After fiscal consolidation, after heavy measures over the past four years, what is important to us now is that we grow as fast as possible. Says the World Bank – you can do up to 7% a year. Last year it was 4.3%, this year we're going to target 3.5%, next year we're going to target 4% again, and we're going to go slowly to 7%, if we need to go over 7%. In order for that growth to happen, we have to grow through personal consumption, which is one element of our GDP growth, so pension growth, wage growth. We must be growing investment and public, which is why we have proposed a large investment programme of over 12 billion over the next four years, to push our GDP up through investment in road, rail infrastructure. We also have foreign direct investment growth. Last year we were the first in the world, this year we are already 43% more and better in the first seven months than last year. So all these elements fit our GDP growth. Below that, it is the basis for the development of the capital market. Without the development of the capital market, without opening that market, that those who invest, and these are also investors from abroad and foreign businesses and domestic enterprises that also collect various sources of funding from the capital market, that these are not just bank loans, but that these can also be the emissions of charters, such as bonds, say, or some other means of financing their activities is very important, if not crucial for further growth of our economy. We're like the state of the past period, so during the summer, we've had bond emissions, this Eurobond show that we've refinanced what's coming to you in February of next year. We were commended, and as a result, we also have an increase in our country's credit rating. We've reached an interest rate of 1.5%, a coupon for 10 years. It's never been a lower interest rate. So we reduce the cost of capital for our country, reduce the risk of investment for our country, therefore the conditions of debt or financing and economic operators are more favourable. That's why they prefer to invest in new factories, buy new equipment, hire new workers. That's why these three laws are very important, because they diversify the ability of economic operators to come up with the necessary capital, to extra capital, not just, I say, in a traditional way, through the loans of banks, and thus to speed up their business. As a result, you have macroeconomic indicators that we cannot ignore. We heard earlier, go into the depths, quote. As I enter the depths, I am now speaking and presenting macroeconomic data relating to the unemployment rate. We were already at 10.3% this year, in 2013 there were 25.9%. We have a high rate of growth in our economy, a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, which is why we are also discussing budget rebalancing, we are going up and wages and pensions, but in December there will be an average salary of over 500 euros, just a few years ago it was 329 euros. All these indicators show that Serbia is on the right track, that the most difficult fiscal consolidation measures are above us, not to forget, too, our public debt is shrinking. That is why you have rating agencies that say – yes, Serbia is stable, we are improving your credit rating, we are going towards an investment rating, too, which is very important for us, and together with the development of the capital market, we are building a platform for even faster growth and development so that citizens of Serbia have both a secure job and the possibility of changing that job or being a competition on the labour market and, ultimately, to achieve even higher growth rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61654	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61655	The experience, Mr. Minister, tells us, however, that for faster growth than you boast in front of your mentors from financial institutions, because you are always optimistic and so you must perform as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to increase GDP much faster and better, that we have profitable production. If we have profitable production, and we expect that by the end of the discussion of these laws that we are talking about, you will tell us where to invest most in the future in Serbia, I have told you what is the basis and what is the need and what is the position of the SRS, where it is most needed, then we could expect that these results will certainly be as you said at an economic forum that they will be in the period until 2023. But what's going on here? What we were talking about when the budget rebalance started. These foreign investments, in the end, have led to a huge inflow of foreign exchanges that come from our people who live abroad who call themselves gas-bitters, and have led to this and make the dinar stronger. It was also easier for the state to pay interest on the dues when it strengthened the dinar. What happened then, and these are real indicators? In the past year, exports from Serbia have only only grown slightly, but imports have increased by 13.6%. Isn't that disturbing, Mr. Minister? The import lobby every year, mostly all products coming from Western countries, and the most widely used goods entering this minimal, or average consumer basket, cost Serbia about 800m euros. Wasn't it wiser to prevent them from doing this to the barriers and mechanisms that the state should have, and that all that money, which are hundreds of millions of euros just invested in the development of the food industry, agriculture in general, the resuscitation of livestock and all that is needed. After all, new jobs. Now to show up, I don't know how many companies, investors here and come, and we're saying it's first of all the capital of traditional Serbian friends. It's a question, Mr. Minister, for a while, who will be working on these jobs, because it's a huge outflow of young people, and above all of these, and at the end of all those who have trades, which are wanted in the West or highly educated workforce, which are engineers, members of that Internet, IT sector, and unfortunately many doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61656	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61657	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, all the macroeconomic indicators of our economy are better than they were, each from monetary policy to fiscal policy, from stable inflation. I said a few days ago when I was talking about budget rebalancing, 2011, or 2012, if I'm not mistaken, the inflation rate was over 11%. So it wasn't 15, 20 years ago, it was just a couple of years ago. Today we have stable inflation 1.5% to 2%. Course from 2008 to 2012 from 80 to 120. Today, there is no such thing as instability. We have a secure course, a stable course, not only that the dinar does not weaken, but even strengthens, which gives the security of investment in our economy. As a result, you have growth in the economy, which of course, consequently, and which is good, also affects the growth of both exports and imports. What is very important when someone observes and talks about imports and exports, too, except for the rate of growth to enter the structure itself. So last year we had high import growth rates and export growth rates. And this year, for the first eight months, we have import growth rates and source growth rates, and the rate of import growth is higher than exports. There's no problem with that. Why? Because in the structure of that import, to read you specific data, I already did two days ago, but it's no problem if he didn't listen again, that when the goods imports in the first eight months of this year increased by 8.7%, exports by 6.95, so there's no big difference. In which of these 8.7% of the goods imports, the fastest growth is recorded in the growth of equipment imports, 14.6%, 260.2m euros, then imports of consumable goods 14.2% and imports of reproduction funds 5.9%, with imports of reproductive funds, these are raw materials that are necessary for the production process, the total amount of 480m euros. So in the import structure, you have 740m euros in total for importing the equipment and importing the raw materials needed to carry out the production process. No, and much less imports of consumable goods, which is also a good indicator because it shows that living standards are growing. So as soon as imports of consumer goods grow, someone buys it, if they buy it, and I said a few minutes ago, we're going with average wages in December about 500 euros, and that's a good indicator. It is a much better indication that the highest percentage of imports in capital goods, equipment and raw materials needed for the production process is because this confirms that last year we were the world champion in the opening of factories, i.e. attracting foreign direct investment. This confirms what we are saying, which is that our factories are opening up across Serbia, that we are opening up new jobs, that we have never less unemployment. This is exactly the type of import structure and we want to see in the years that come to grow, but that it grows most because equipment is imported, technology is imported and factories are opened and raw materials are imported to increase the production process. The more it is produced in Serbia, the more it is exported. As an indication that we are on a healthy basis is the percentage of export coverage, which was only 57. 58% a few years ago, is now over 70%. So this particular percentage is the most important indicator. In the past few years, we have been growing exports faster than imports in a relative relationship and export coverage is the biggest indicator of the success of the reforms we have implemented. In the end, it sublimes itself, as it sublimes itself into a public debt in GDP compared to GDP, where public debt falls, where we grow GDP. So is the foreign trade deficit. It decreases because our exports are growing more than imports, and it covers one by the other 50 and slightly, compared to 74%, today, if I'm not mistaken, is a huge difference. Of course we're going to move on, it's going to be even better from year to year, because we're just expecting the effects of exporting new factories that are opening this year and that are starting to build last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61658	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The right to replica has Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61659	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you do not have to personally now and in your mandate to feel called when I speak to other colleagues, Serbian radicals, about the import lobby, he has been present in Serbia since 1989. So, in continuity, that lobby wants to produce foreign goods, including goods that you say has been increased by 14% and some percentages, imported into Serbia, have wide consumption. I guess it's natural that everyone in a country, there in Italy, France, in Germany, will place their products everywhere in the world and say, "Yeah, here's a good market." But it's not a problem with them, it's a problem with us. You should understand this government, too. We believe that we will be part of this government, that we will be able to do it, in addition to what you are doing in Serbia with these foreign investments in a radical way of re-industrating, as some call it, to execute, competitively raising the competitiveness of our producers. How many, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this is what Serbian citizens need to know, businesses in Serbia that no one may have heard of, who are independent, as small, as family manifestures are going on, and today they export to who knows how many countries in the world? Why, as a state, you as the Ministry of Finance, some body within the government, don't have a list of all these people or those companies that need to connect and that, with the incentive of the State, they export their products, our domestic products? Let it go. We're exporting the Fiat. After all, it all fell apart. Instead of 300,000, only 50 and a few thousand units of vehicle were manufactured. No one's going to buy the Fiat 500L, it's really on the world market a poorly quoted product and in the automotive industry you know how they look at it, because these others have outrun us, who knows how much. Therefore, this should be based on the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia so that we can raise their competitiveness with our products. Why should we export raspberries, and see what kind of problems people have every year, they struggle? Many of them have also destroyed their crops, not at that miserable price to sell raspberries, to export as raw materials, but to rework it and as such a product to increase the price multiple times. It's the same with both fruit and vegetables. We will soon accept that the Slovenians there represent ajvar as their national brand. We have products that have a geographically protected origin, right? Not to mention now, of goldsmith cheese, of pyrotic hats, of iron sausages, of royal crayons and of all kinds. They do have a protected geographical origin. We're going instead to force... We've got a bright case here, and now I've thought about doing a little digression and giving an example. Two girls, a graduate economist from the Kings, went from where their fathers, to their native Studenica, and founded their family’s little milkmaker to produce that famous Studenic cheese. This should be incentives and thus warn young people that if you want to stay here, you will get state aid, have people creative ideas, want to return to their estates and raise their standard of living, and thus give Serbia more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61660	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61661	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a set of three laws that, at least as far as the profession is concerned, are highly evaluated. As I always do in the modern Serbian Party, I asked those whose law concerns the most, since the Investment Funds laws, there are few people who can clearly see all the traps in Serbia, i.e. the advantages that can be reported. Most portfolio managers didn't have any major objections, at least to the Investment Funds Act. When it comes to the Deposit Insurance Act, the fact is that we continue to comply with both international standards and certain requirements of the European road, and that these are things that should, with one continuous improvement in risk management and capital management, lead to stronger trust in our banking sector, which is due to poor management, especially by state banks at one point was, in a rather poor voice, both with our citizens and foreign investors. It wasn't a small thing to ruin several state banks and also raise MPLs in some of them. So, this thing, when it comes to deposit insurance, raises overall security and it is not controversial and enters some new areas, such as bank restructuring, if ever there is a need to do so. Banking is a little specific. So there's a luxury of letting the bank run down water, much less than when it comes to the real sector. However, if we do not have any major disagreements here, and if it is a substance that is quite well known, me and the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party have intrigued the Law on Alternative and Investment Funds. There are many reasons why this is so and why this law, again I say, is one good basis but there are certain business ecosystems around that law that require that they meet some other preconditions so that then they can flourish, alternatively, investment flowers of all kinds. More specifically, or if we were to use a metaphor, that law is to buy such a solid field with agrotechnics, if we were to use our favorite agricultural metaphors in Serbia. But in order for that field to yield, we need to satisfy some more things, starting with knowledge, appropriate fertilizers, incentives, and similar things to come into a position that something that is objective potential and a good foundation begins to produce fruit. What has been a weakness for years, just when it comes to alternative sources of funding, which are very much needed by a country that has a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises and where it is dominant when it comes to the information technology sector, are not large players, where the very logic of growth is different than in some conventional activities, it was that for many years we had doubts whether it should be regulated by a special law at all. I've seen some first proposals six, seven years ago or enough to use existing Investment Funds laws, but that's not a very good solution, either, because they have to be hard on the nature of things, because having an open investment fund isn't exactly a creative joke, but you have to ensure safety when it comes to placements and satisfy many other things. When it comes to alternative investment funds, the situation is such that it is still better to lay one legal basis, so that we can hope that Serbia will live, for example. the fund garner of capital. One very important thing. They can't help you start when you have, like, an example. I am rapidly growing business ideas in the information technology sector, but they can help when you are from the initial "crout fanning" phase, and I will come back later, using my own money, or if you're lucky to run into some business angel, when you need to attract some larger funds and get into a more serious investment in software or what is likely to be the future of developing information technologies both in the world and in Serbia, but we haven't really stepped in, about simulations, artificial intelligence and all the things that will bring about development in the environment of the PFG network and at all what will change the world in the next decade. On the other hand, in order to have a Vencher of Funds, which would really be alive in Serbia and achieve the primary task of funding highly innovative companies that don't necessarily have to be just IT, but there is a great chance that the gro will be located in IT or in branches that its competent advantages, specifically businesses, are currently developing at the synthesis of IT and their conventional business, you have to put around, as I said, a good ecosystem in other laws. So, in order to attract funds that are not mostly in Serbia, for example, paradoxes, there are in Sofia, Budapest and in some other countries, which we want to catch up on and outreach, it is necessary to make changes concerning fiscal policy, which will be accompanied by a law that is a good basis. In Serbia, capital gains tax is not an important tax, and when you view it as a whole of budget revenues, it is minor. Very often we have opportunities to see that it is quite unfathomable and that we have some people who have successfully avoided paying it and people who have finally paid it without being aware of the obligation at first. So, if we want to have a good development of the Vencher Funds in the first transitional period, it doesn't have to be forever, but in at least the first four to five years it would be desirable for them to have a release from capital gains, because that is something that could attract their activities to be located in Serbia rather than dominantly being out of Serbia. Why is it important that the Vencher funds are located in Serbia? The reason is pretty simple. The best knowledge of the domestic market has precisely those legal persons who are on our market and little can replace specific knowledge about the local market, as just a local market presence. Thus, the addition that creates a good ecosystem in terms of capital gains release would be a good thing if we really want to attract a venice fund to Serbia. Also, it is very important in the whole story to have tax credits for investment, because that is a prerequisite for having more significant placements. The absorption capacity of the Serbian capital vezer market, as well as other forms of non-conventional financing, has, for example, jumped very hard in recent years, which we can see at export growth rates, as export rates for the IT sector are an excellent indicator that the absorption capacity has certainly increased in the meantime. It's something that's also very important, to have the possibility of a tax credit for investment. Also, the ability to recognize loss as a category and serve as a release for some future profits. The gains that we can gain by increasing the leverage of the Serbian IT industry, the opportunities to get into more complex ventures or even if we weren't just a specific country for very often, to figuratively express myself, the "loun" jobs in the IT sector would be more than our country would give up something that is not there now and it wants to have. On the other hand, the law is a good basis, but I am a law without creating an ecosystem that follows it and which can raise relatively well-defined things in the law to a level that allows the Serbian IT industry to develop, not only quantitatively, which is now happening, but also qualitatively, is an important thing. Of course, with that clear restriction that we can do many wonders of this world, but that Serbia will never be able to measure itself with Zurich when it comes to developing artificial intelligence and similar things, but that we can hope that here the quality of the product will be higher, with a higher degree of added value, which will not include what is called mere work for other companies, but the possibility of really developing here when our companies are engaged by large foreign IT gigans to do more complex jobs with a greater added value that remains here. Because, yes, the law is fine and the law must follow, i.e. I'd say you should, you can't when you're in a position less to say the seas, it's a little stupid, because you should follow a set of laws from fiscal policy and sublegal acts. The benefit-and-cost ratio is pretty good, and as our budget is normally balanced, it tends to be a surplus, I don't think that would be some excessive problem. If this law opens up a space for the Venture Funds, this time since we are discussing in principle, and principle debates can go in various directions, from proposing some additions, to making certain suggestions, it's okay, that you can do a lot of things that don't necessarily have to be connected, this law solves, I say, financing companies that are placed on their feet and have track record that they've achieved something. But what this law will not solve, and yet it needs to be done to create a complete ecosystem of financing innovative branches, is that we still do not have solutions that would facilitate croutoning. There is a possibility that Krautfund is in Serbia, it is not disputed, but the main Krautfunding is taking place on the European market, at this point, although it would not be bad for Krautfunding to be an option for our companies in some other markets. The current legal solutions do not prevent this, but in many ways impose unnecessary transaction costs, because we have some institutions of the Republic of Serbia that do their primary job well, and it would be a sin to say that the primary job of the National Bank of Serbia, which is the stability of money, is not well done. But when it comes to foreign trade, I'm afraid we're getting pretty old every now and then and some innovative branches suffer for it. Just when it comes to croutoning, some forms of croutoning, which are basic and can function, but these third, fourth degree Krautfunding, has a lot of transaction costs. This is something that should be removed, because if we are thinking about developing an innovative sector in Serbia, which can leave a high domestic value, which can push a significant growth in GDP, which can help us fit into the global division of work, and that even cheaper offers, ultimately, some software products that we have to buy today and pay a pretty large annual fee for maintaining and using this software, I think that this system should be rounded from the beginning to the end and that the responsibility of a country going to meet is growing to work on it, as much as possible and that these are the supplements that would be very good at something that is set up here. There's one more thing I'd like to mention, which is a lot of relying on this other law on classical investment funds. We have experienced a terrible contraction of the financial market since 2008 because I view the banking market as a separate category, but there has also been a major contraction. The financial market suffers from a lack of activity that can be traded. The Belgrade Stock Exchange is as shallow as a stream and has very few securities of value, and with a very small volume of trade you can influence the price movement and largely cause major oscillations, which tells you again about the shallowness of the market. What is the task, again I say, if we want to have investment funds that have something to invest in in the Republic of Serbia, to be well dispersed and to be engines of Serbia's development, investment outside Serbia is not controversial, here you have whatever you want. It is said that we should work on creating legal and sublegal preconditions, that initial offers of action are made simpler, faster, cheaper, that those who engage in this are given the necessary information and knowledge, in some cases because it is a new instrument, because it is the only way that we can create new actions on the Serbian market, directly, without those actions that have become a defacto part of our market, via a sillcroad, or through a Balkan network, and without it happening by making our stock market a part of a larger stock market in the world. So what we need, too, in this whole story, is if we wanted our investment funds to grow and grow and we had more instruments, the IPOs would also be good for the recapitalisation of some systems that are solidly counting. That's where we never agreed. I've talked about it a long time ago, from some past lives. And without some good IPO with quality paper, which would, for example, originate from the EPS or from some companies that have remained well intact by restructuring, and these systems are screwed up, namely living autonomy of inefficientness within the Republic of Serbia, where it is very difficult to hit and restructure, that system, what to do, is quite inefficient and quite closed, resistant to change, even though things change, again, can't sin our soul. It's simple, and a good investment fund law will make us have a good law and that's it. So we have to work on developing paper from values that would be more broadcast, because these are good ways for companies to come to borrowed capital and own capital. We're still a country that doesn't consider stock capital, or capital that's too expensive. Also, it's the same with corporate bonds. And there we have to work on sublegal acts and stimulate it, because it's also a good way to make a leverage and have charters that are traded and that could have investment funds in their portfolio. All in all, I can't say, this is again, unlike yesterday's law, when I said we've got a skeptic on accounting, we'll talk about it more, and there are different objections, sometimes quite the opposite of the different groups that deal with it. I don't really have any objections about these two laws or the Deposit Insurance Act. That's not the key question. The key question we're dealing with here is what do we do after? On the contrary, I think it's perfect that foreign consultants who have experience in the markets that have investment funds, that it's fantastic and that it's a good thing that's done so. It's good that people who are competent and experienced work on writing laws. We have no long experience with portfolio management, with investment funds. We have knowledge of what our market is and what the challenges are in development. But the laws themselves, as valid as they are, if you don't let them be the basis on which something will come out, so to speak, it looks like the laws that are put in the drawer and that will wait for some time to take full advantage of them. It's what's the key thing I'd end up being exposed to. The laws are okay, but what we need to get the most out of something that is important in our country, which is to attract capital to domestic companies, to use leverage as much as possible, to increase the contribution to our own capital and in general, to make businesses have rapid growth and development, is to create an ecosystem of sublegal acts, regulations, knowledge and all other things, to come into a position to make maximum use of a valid work that didn't last long. So much for me this time. I would, in accordance with the position of our parliamentary group, be maximum in holding on to what is really a subject, not going over to everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61662	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61663	Thank you very much, Mr. Stevanovic. I think in your presentation, you've hit several very important issues that apply to these laws, as well as to the next steps that await us. This task force, which I was talking about earlier, by the NBS, the Securities Commission, the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the Ministry of Finance, etc., continues to work. So our work doesn't end with these laws. We continue to work, and next year we will certainly have a new set of tax laws, which will target and which will refer to this part of the capital market, in order to further accelerate its development. You're right about that. Let's say, capital gain tax, when you look at the absolute amount, it's not our big income, and on the other hand, if we eventually free the participants from it, we could attract them extra and stimulate them to come and invest here. So, on this side, including, of course, tax loans and everything else, a whole package and a set of tax laws, tax breaks or incentives, yes, it will be in front of lawmakers next year, to round up the concept of investment in investment and alternative funds. Also, it's related to Crowdfunding. So we are also seriously considering the legal solutions involved. For those who do not know what it is, therefore, it is one concept that has been brought to life in a large number of other countries. Now, if you were to invest in some funds as an investor, there are some minimum amounts for investment. Crowdfunding is precisely the minimum amount that is kind of minimized and says that one who has maybe 100 dinars can invest, so let's invest 200, 300, someone who has 500, 500, so that not only can those who have more money be able to invest in investment funds, and that's something we'll be dealing with in the next period. The same task force will also work on it. You know what it's like to open up new areas and try to stimulate the development of the capital market, unfortunately, you can't all at once. It's important that you start somewhere. We chose these laws, to go this year and then go with the Crowdfunding and with tax breaks and other things. Which, what you said, is also very important for us, talks are open, in which way the Belgrade Stock Exchange should be positioned to be even more attractive. Of course, much depends on how stable Serbia is financially, how attractive we are, this will also make the stock market more attractive. We need to work to see how we can encourage it. You said clearly about corporateisation and public enterprises, so that some of their financial needs would be met on the capital market, not only through bank loans, and on the other hand, do not forget local self-government. So, these municipal bonds, too, if the state did its part of the job, so through Eurobond emissions, it reduced the cost of debt from seven comas to something, the coupon rate that was for us in 2014 or 2013 to 1.5%, that and local self-governments, giving them the opportunity to be in debt in the right way, to go out to the capital market and to be part of their projects through the issue, whether these projects are from environmental, municipal infrastructure or anything else, in this way finance. So capital shouldn't know about borders. And our goal is to attract the greater amount of capital to Serbia, to activate our potential, to activate our resources. These laws are only part of a broader and larger picture. You can't think about these laws when you're in the fiscal consolidation process. We're done with the process now. Now, as a first step next, we're thinking about how to make our business environment even better, even more competitive, so the laws we discussed yesterday about reviewing, about accounting and how, of course, to encourage the development of the capital market, here, these three laws here today. It was a very important message, believe me, and what the Deposit Insurance Agency sold those controversial claims, the first 240m-euro portfolio. A few days ago, another ad came out, we're selling 1.8 billion of these old claims, uncharging claims. That property is trapped, you have no use for it, neither trust nor state. By selling it, on the one hand, and creditors get money, and on the other hand, you activate that land or those facilities that are under some mortgages for some further growth and development. So these are all small pieces of a puzzle called the development of our market, the development of our economy, whose component is the development of the capital market. So, I thank you for the great number of topics that you have started, but once again, we will have a clearly defined tax framework next year for further stimulating the growth of the capital market, to see how we will position the Belgrade Stock Exchange and see how we will encourage local self-government, but also large corporate businesses and how our sources of funding diversify and use the capital market as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61664	Thank you, Minister Mali. My colleague Stevanović, I was thinking of you, seeing as you've reached out to the system, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61665	Basically, more supplemental. I'd mention the ammunition bonds, but there'd be a set of things going around them that's pretty wide. At this point, I'm not sure how realistic it is until the internal audit system is in place, managing the finances of local self-government, until it's raised to a much higher level than it is today. I'm not really sure there's going to be any high-quality municipal charter emissions in the city of Belgrade, maybe, but in the rest of the country it's possible to be very problematic in many municipalities. There are municipalities that are very good, that could do some things, that worked on it. There are municipalities that try not to do anything, it's completely colorful. So, on the other hand, there's going to be sizif business, many of them are already dealing with it, and it looks like they're going to be dealing with in many of the years that are going to follow when it comes to municipal securities of value, but in any case it would raise the level of depth of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and in general the volume of securities that can be traded, and that's quite true, as far as that goes. To end, it's not that it's some final debate now, but the bottom line is, if an economy is discussed with opinions, one of the most normal things is to discuss in reason and to discuss concepts that have the ability to survive, which have connections with reality, so that the fundamental discussions and disagreements that will follow, because disagreements are fantastic that the total highway is raised and will follow how to do something better, rather than to discuss it, and we are trying to prove that something is wrong or that things that cannot possibly lead to a better financial system or any segment in our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61666	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61667	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, honourable MPs, we are facing today laws aimed at developing the capital market, strengthening the financial market in the Republic of Serbia and strengthening the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the SDPS and I believe that the proposed solutions will significantly affect the creation of a more favourable economic environment in the Republic of Serbia and the proposed solutions certainly deserve great attention here and the whole public today and we have already heard that a certain sublegal act will be adopted that will define these legal solutions closer. I think it is extremely important to strengthen investment funds in the Republic of Serbia. I will talk about this in particular in my presentation today, because I think they are not given enough attention, nor in the previous period, that there are certain prejudices when we talk about investment funds, that trust in investment funds has been raised, but I will talk about the reasons that led to this, about investment funds in the countries of the environment, as well as about the trend in investment growth in the countries of Europe, about significant prospects, as well as the extremely favourable solutions that envision these legal solutions and which I believe will significantly improve the position of investment funds in the Republic of Serbia. In essence, investment funds are an alternative between saving in banks and investing i.e. active savings or passive investment. In order to ensure a greater degree of risk protection and to restore investor confidence, further precision has been made in the conditions of establishment and reporting of management companies, the precision of assets in which it is allowed to invest, including restrictions and exceptions to restrictions, more detailed policies on the management of the risks of the investment fund, the remuneration policy of services and the liability of depositaries and the supervision of the authorisation. However, the first investment funds were organised just before the start of a global financial crisis whose effects had been felt in 2008, when the price of shares in the Belgrade Stock Exchange began to drop rapidly after a significant rise during the second half of 2006 and the first half of 2007, respectively. In mid-February 2009, as a result of the global financial crisis, the prices of actions on the Belgrade Stock Exchange were almost 90% lower than the historic maximum, from mid-2007. Such a drastic decline has seriously affected market participants and has paved confidence in the potential of investment funds, as a form of investment. As a result, assets under the management of investment funds companies were almost constantly reduced, amid the withdrawal of the role of members, making the entire investment fund sector negligible to a significant participant in the capital market. Investment funds are very much represented in the developed economies of the world, where they form an integral part of the financial market and some of the general characteristics of the funds are higher rates of contributions from savings in the bank, strong control of the business of funds by state institutions, without guarantee to investors, public portfolios and business. The average rate of investment funds in developed countries is 8% to 15% annually. Greater contributions were observed at the start of the investment fund’s work, which were subsequently slightly reduced. The expansion of all types of investment funds should be expected in Serbia. Given that behind Croatia, the Serbian economy is the strongest in the region and European countries outside the EU, most likely a large part of investment funds from the region will be directed right into the Serbian economy. Also expected is a relatively higher contribution from investment funds from countries that later received investment funds laws over the next few years. It should be assumed that, according to the Croatian market model, a large part of the savings will be transferred from banks to investment funds and to us. Investment funds carry a slightly higher risk of savings in the bank, but as a rule, a higher contribution to the funds invested. In our country, the state does not guarantee citizens a return of funds in the event of a fund's bankruptcy, while in the case of savings guarantees a return of 50,000 euros each in the bank's role. When it comes to yields observed in stable solid currencies, and so far experience suggests that the average contributions of funds range from 8% to 15%. Interest rates on assets in stable, solid currencies in our country range from 3.5% to 7.5%. The interest rates on dinar funds range from 8.5% to 19%. This suggests that an annual contribution of at least a few percent above 20% should be expected if monitored in dinar indices. Looking at the current contribution of domestic funds, this kind of expectation is very close to being achieved. In the case of the purchase of investment units, the investor pays the costs and compensation of investment fund management companies, and most often there are no fees when investing in the bank. The advantage of such an investment is that the money invested with a contribution can always be converted into liquid assets, by selling investment units. It is important to note that a commission is mainly charged on the purchase of investment units, except in cases where they are sold after several years of purchase. When it comes to savings in banks, only saving by sight allows for the possibility of raising liquid assets at any time without any restrictions. All other man-made savings require less or more procedures, if the investor needs the funds before the term of maturity of the tool. In cases of return of liquid assets after the deadline of the hand-holding, there are no restrictions. Uniquely, the best solution between these two options does not exist. In the second period, it depends on the size of the investor, the risk preparedness, as a degree of liquidity of the invested assets needed by the investor in the specific situation. As far as the short term is concerned, investment funds are not a good solution due to short-term fluctuations in investment unit prices. In that case, the savings in the bank seem to be a better option and there is a clear definition for us. For those of you who are considering investing individually in the capital market, for which it is necessary to keep track of market movements and to be excellent investors of proper investment, you are free of those liabilities through the investment fund, because in the investment fund you have the funds, i.e. The portfolio is managed by licensed managers with one clear principle of activity management, which is a diversification of risk. Diversification also implies a combination of two or more charters of values that are made in different directions, so that the contribution of one financial instrument no longer expresses only its risk, but is conditioned by the risk of the entire portfolio. Therefore, diversification cannot eliminate the overall risk. Systemically, the risk equally affects all types of assets and is related to the functioning of the capital market. It covers total market risks, i.e. risks that are of an impact on all securities of value, inflation risk, interest risk, exchange rate risk, etc. This species cannot be eliminated by diversification. Part of the risk that represents the difference between total and systemic risk in the economy is called non-systemic or specific risk. It is a risk associated with individual securities of value, or individual companies that broadcast them. This type of risk can be affected by diversification. It may concern business risk, liquidity risk, non-payment risk, strikes, management changes, etc. Thus, even a portfolio with the highest number of values, in its composition does not reduce the risk below the market risk level. So diversification can't be eliminated just part of the risk, but it's systemic risk. the risk of the market in general always remains. The increase in the number of securities of value, the diversification of portfolios affects the reduction of its overall risk, but it is very important that the total number of securities of value cannot go indefinitely. When it reaches a certain number, it starts to create opposite effects, because it creates a legitimate problem for each portfolio manager and additional costs when analysing the risks of a particular paper of value. The optimal number is somewhere between 15 and 20 and any additional diversion would be excessive and could affect, as I have already said, additional costs and create problems for each portfolio manager, i.e. Management, depending on the size of the investment fund. The advantages of investment in the investment fund also represent the possibility that at almost every moment you can sell your investment units and get liquid assets. The contributions you can make by investing in an investment fund are most often higher than the contributions made by savings in the bank. At any time, the value of the stakes and the yield achieved can be verified, but the resulting gain is automatically reinvested. These are the advantages of the investment fund, but the fact that you have no guarantee of the funds invested and that the state does not guarantee the return of the money invested, of course, does not define people in this direction. There's still not enough trust when we talk about this kind of investment. The development of the investment fund industry, especially for small investors, is an alternative to saving banks and enables the domestic financial market to come out of the multi-annual banking zone, as it has invested in bank deposits. The decline in market activity and the confidence of investors in the domestic capital market have resulted in a negative trend in moving the company's operating performance to manage open investment funds in terms of the fall in the value of open income and the reduction in the total balance sheet assets. In view of the need for a high liquidity of the fund’s assets in terms of the capacity of realisation, members are required to purchase investment units, and this law explicitly provides that the assets of the fund should not be used to grant or guarantee loans for the benefit of third parties. When we talk about alternative investment funds, the difference between open investment funds is that no work permit is required within the meaning of the law governing the organisation and operation of open investment funds with a public offering. The law regulates different types of funds and prescribes the types of assets alternative investment funds can invest in. Shares in the alternative fund will be considered investment units, actions and shares depending on whether a fund which does not have a laundry or is established in the form of a limited liability company or company. The paper is that it will be possible to establish an alternative investment fund that has a legal personality with internal management that will not have to have a management company. However, the management of these funds will also be subject to the provisions of this law, which are governed by companies for the management of alternative investment funds. In addition, as another reason for the adoption of this law, there is a need for the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises representing the main actors on the market of the Republic of Serbia. One of the main reasons why micro, small and medium-sized operators meet is the inability to obtain affordable financial resources to further develop their business. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises often cannot meet strict conditions for obtaining bank loans, and the participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the total GDP is about 32%, which is in comparison with countries in the environment a very small share. One effective way of funding micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is certainly through funds, corporate capital and private capital funds. These types of funds are not represented in Serbia to meet market needs. The adoption of this law would create a favourable atmosphere for the development of such funds, and thus the development of micro, small and medium-sized private entities, as well as the markets of the Republic of Serbia. Starting from this, the adoption of this law will ensure a level playing field with EU regulations and a higher level of trust for potential domestic and foreign investors, thus making the domestic market more attractive and stimulating more people to invest their financial resources in alternative funds established or organised in the Republic of Serbia. I think it is very important to develop the market for investment funds in Serbia, because investments are very important, and if we look at the development of investment funds in the surrounding countries, it is very important that in the countries of Eastern Europe in 2017 they reached about 3.5 billion euros, representing an increase of 113% compared to the previous year and a record-high level for that region. This growth significantly exceeds previous record 2008 growth of 40%. Given the trend in investment of private capital funds in companies in Central-Eastern European countries, as well as the profits made from investment of venture capital funds, it is clear that Serbia is still significantly lagging behind the region. One of the reasons for this lagging is certainly the fact that national legislation does not regulate alternative investment funds as a special category, but one law covers the entire matter of investment funds. It was considered a big problem. The proposed legislative solution clearly separates open investment funds from alternative ones. Its ways of establishing and operating in the next period are clearly prescribed, which we believe will remove the problems that existed in the previous period and further improve the development of both open and alternative investment funds in the Republic of Serbia. Starting from this, the adoption of this law will ensure the uniformity of domestic rules with EU regulations and a higher level of trust for potential domestic and foreign investors. It will therefore make the domestic market more attractive and stimulate a larger number of people to invest their financial resources in alternative funds, established or organised in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support the proposals and legal solutions on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61668	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go, colleague Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61669	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, at this session of Skusina Serbia, we are discussing several laws in the area of economy and finance, and today's package of laws concerns changes to the Deposit Insurance Act and new laws on investment funds, i.e. the introduction of new forms of investment funds as institutional investors in the capital market in the Republic of Serbia. First, I will refer to the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. Insurance of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, brand, small and medium-sized legal persons in banks and payment of secured amounts of deposits in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of a bank constitute the core activity of the Deposit Insurance Agency. In addition to the operations of compulsory deposit insurance and payment of the amounts secured, the Agency may also manage the assets transferred in the bank restructuring process and carry out other operations related to the bank restructuring process. The deposit insurance system has a positive impact on strengthening public confidence, particularly in the banking sector, on the prevention and mitigation of the effects of crisis situations, both at the level of the individual bank and the banking system in general. The proposed changes and additions seek to further comply with international bangs and standards, as well as legal assets, above all with the EU that Serbia is seeking. During the past period, the Agency has actively co-operated with the World Bank and the IMF to improve the deposit insurance system. The current law was passed in 2015 and in 2017 it was complemented in the work relating to the investment of funds of the fund. To remind the public, the main objectives of the deposit insurance system are the protection of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons and the contribution to financial stability in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, these changes contribute to the further achievement of all those objectives. By changing the basis for calculating the premium, a regular premium would be charged to up to 50,000 euros on the total deposits of natural persons of entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons. The proposed amendments to the law will, above all, have an impact on banks and in the part where, instead of the total deposits of natural persons and other users, regular and extraordinary premiums will be calculated on the guaranteed amounts of deposits of banks up to 50,000 euros, i.e. by ensuring the covered amount of deposits of those secured categories. Bank liabilities will be reduced on the basis of the payment of the deposit guarantee premium on average. The second thing is to define and prescribe the new target amount of the Deposit Insurance Fund and extend the deadline for reaching the target amount, instead of the existing target amount of 5% of the secured deposits in the banking sector, which is to be reached by 1 January 2025, the target amount is defined by the proposal at the level of 7.5% of the guaranteed amounts of deposits in the banking sector to be reached by 1 January 2030. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law will improve the system and are of great benefit to overall functioning. When it comes to the new investment fund legislative framework, I wanted to draw attention to Serbia's recognition of the importance of this issue, not only for the development of the financial market, but for the overall economic development. The first Investment Funds Act was adopted in 2006, and we changed it and upgraded it several times to allow investors, above all, as safe and simple as possible, to participate as members of the Fund in our capital market and make a certain profit on the funds invested. The implementation of the Investment Funds Act so far has shown a positive effect on the development of the capital market, and on more effective financing of the real sector from such financial sources. After the law was passed, the first investment funds, as well as the management companies of these funds, were first interested in investing in property securities of value, both domestic and regional companies. Unfortunately, due to the global economic crisis in 2008, these first funds have seen a drastic decline in shares in the capital market, resulting in a mixed reputation for investment funds and led to a drastic decline in the impact of all funds on the capital market. According to data from 2015 to 2018, a total of 21 investment funds and six investment fund management companies were registered in Serbia. It should also be noted that as much as 89% of the total value of the net assets of the funds were related to the funds. This says, however, that the domestic capital market is still underdeveloped, with a constant lack of quality market material, i.e. financial instruments in which investors could invest without just depositing with banks, which is neither the objective nor the purpose of investment funds. To improve and stabilise the situation, the position of investment funds following the global economic crisis that hit the whole world in 2008, destabilizing investment funds on our market, has been made changes to legislation, its adaptation to emerging conditions, as well as its harmonisation with EU law. These earlier changes created somewhat more favourable conditions for the establishment of a fund management society, but the EU's position was to separate matter on investment funds in our legislation in two laws. Thus, harmonisation of the regulations in this sector has become our obligation under the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the EU and the negotiating position for Chapter 9 - Financial Services. I'm sorry, Chairman, I can't hear myself, the fire's in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61670	My colleagues, just a little quieter, please. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61671	From this point on, we have two draft laws before us today – a draft law on open investment funds with a public offering and a draft law on alternative investment funds covering other funds that treat both closed and private. You have, as a proposing, worked in parallel on these two laws governing joint investment entities, whose sole purpose and purpose is to raise funds and invest these funds in accordance with a pre-defined strategy exclusively for the benefit of investors. To remind you, according to the provisions of this law, the Open Investment Fund has the sole objective of collective investment of assets collected by public offerings of investment units in a trust in transferable securities of value or other liquid financial assets defined by Article 42 of this Act. For these funds, the law provides for obtaining work permits. The alternative investment fund is an investment fund that collects funds from investors with the intention of investing them in accordance with a defined investment policy in favour of these investors, which is not required by the labour permit. Starting from this, the adoption of these laws will ensure a level playing field with EU regulations and a higher level of trust for domestic and foreign potential investors, thereby making the domestic market more attractive and stimulating more people to invest their financial resources in funds organised in the Republic of Serbia. The aim of these laws is to ensure a greater level of protection against the risks of founders and restore investor confidence, which is done by further detailing the conditions, in particular the establishment, business and reporting of fund management companies, the precision of the assets in which they are allowed to invest, including restrictions and exemptions from restrictions. A more detailed risk management and investment fund policy, remuneration policy, services and depositary liability and supervisory powers of the Securities Commission have been detailed. A higher level of security, together with the introduction of new forms and structures of the organisation of these funds, could consequently attract more domestic and foreign investors and contribute to the development of the capital market. I view these two laws as legal frameworks that should contribute to the development of the financial market and capital markets, and thus contribute to attracting both domestic and foreign investments that Serbia can raise to the level of developed European economies. Such conditions exist because the government has worked intensively in the past to create and improve the economic and social environment. This confirms the results achieved. My colleagues discussed this during the debate on the rebalancing of the state budget, which is not the result of the deficit at this time, but rather the result of higher GDP growth that has allowed us to increase wages and pensions, but also greater capital investments. I believe that a favourable economic environment, fiscal and macroeconomic stability will contribute and motivate those interested in the establishment and operation of investment funds, either open or alternative. Everything I've said is in support of two proposed laws being of crucial importance for the improvement of our economic system. For this reason, respected ministers, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61672	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group National MP Ana Čaapic. Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61673	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I will take the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group and on my personal behalf, all the members of the Government and the President of the Republic on making a bold decision in 2014 and on implementing difficult reforms. It is precisely because of the difficult reforms and the successful fiscal consolidation that we are discussing for the first time in parliament these days on a positive budget rebalancing. So we have a positive budget rebalance due to higher revenues than expected and because of the savings we have achieved and we have solved, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to share a positive budget rebalance, i.e. the surplus income with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is a great decision. So we decided to raise pensions and salaries in the public sector by 8% for government employees, 10% for scientists and doctors and 15% for nurses, which is on average 9.6%. Greater income in the Republic of Serbia's budget and savings achieved are no coincidence. This is the result of responsible policy and exhaustive work by all members of the government. Today we can boast that we are an absolute leader in the region by the inflow of foreign direct investment, both by number and by volume. We have a greater inflow of foreign direct investment than all the countries in the environment combined. We are also an absolute leader in the region and after the creation of new jobs. Just so the citizens of Serbia know what I'm talking about, I'm going to bring out the data from the Republic Statistics Institute that says that in the second quarter of 2019, we have as many as 45,000 new jobs as we do in the second quarter of 2018, which is really commendable. Also, with a responsible policy, we managed to reduce the unemployment rate from that dizzy 27% to the current 10.3% and this data was published by the Republic Statistics Office on 10 August of this year. So we have reduced the unemployment rate by as much as 17% in less than seven years, and this has allowed us to have higher revenue in the budget than expected because we have higher income based on the income tax and on other types of taxes that flow into the budget. The second year in a row, we have an increase in pensions and salaries, and the third year in a row, we're making a surplus in the budget, which is really for every praise. So in July, the surplus in the budget amounted to as much as 46.6 billion dinars. We must not ignore even a record increase in the minimum labour price. The minimum labour price increase is as high as 11.1%) and the minimum hourly work price will not be 155.3 dinars, as it is at this point, but 175.5 dinars. This means that the minimum profit will not be 27,022 dinars as much as it is now, nor will God give 17,952 dinars in 2012, but will be as much as 30,022 dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the importance of personal consumption in economic development, and all of us economists know that the key factor in economic development is to increase personal consumption. So, on the one hand, we increase profits in the public sector and we increase in agreement with employers and labour unions the minimum labour price, while on the other hand we implement measures to relieve the economy. So we abolished the contributions to the PIO fund at 0.5% and we increased the untaxable share of profit from 15.300 to 16.300 dinars, and that allowed economic savings of as many as 13 billion dinars. So 13 billion dinars will have more resources available to businesses for investment investments, which means expanding existing production capacities and opening new ones. It means new jobs with our domestic producers. It is really necessary to commend the results achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the NBS and with the full support of the President of the Republic. Indeed, Serbia's picture in the world and in the region and in Europe has changed dramatically in favour of economic progress and economic development. When it comes to the laws that we are discussing on the agenda today, there are two completely new legal solutions, which is the draft law on open investment funds with a public offering and a draft law on alternative investment funds, and we have one amendment and addition of the law, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. All three legal solutions are in function of economic development, which is very important. The proposed amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Act aims to preserve the financial stability of the financial system and strengthen public confidence in the banking system on the one hand, while the proposals for an open investment fund law with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act aim to develop the capital market in our country. Together for all three draft laws, it is that public debates have passed and that all interested parties could participate in the public debate. These are state institutions, market participants and foreign consultants. All suggestions, suggestions, comments that were good, will prove good for employers and natural persons have become an integral part of the law and thus legal solutions have been improved. It is also important that the proposed amendments and additions and the proposed new legislative solutions will not require any costs in the Republic's budget or in the citizens' or in the economy. What is most important in my opinion is that the legislative solutions that are on the agenda are aimed at harmonising our legislation with European and best international practice, which means that we will stimulate foreign investors to invest even more in our country, because of the harmonised terminology of our legislation and the country's legislation where foreign investors come from. I will remind all citizens of Serbia that in the first six months, the inflow of foreign direct investment is almost 2.3 billion euros, which is 31% more than in 2018, which is indeed for every praise. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the proposed law affects the reduction of the risk of bank operations and the preservation of the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. The law adopted in 2015, which suffered certain amendments and additions in 2017, with regard to the investment of funds of the fund. These proposed amendments and amendments to the law aim to bring the legal solution in line with the best international practice and standards that, with Directive 2014/49, means the EU Directive. The most significant changes and additions of laws are the reduction of the base for the calculation of the premium and the introduction of a premium accounting system based on the level of risk in bank operations. So far, we've had a situation where all banks, regardless of the level of risk, pay the same premium, which is not good. The legislator believes that those banks that are more at risk should also pay a higher premium. For these reasons, the calculation methodology for the premium has been changed. So, the new legal solution provides for a change in the base for the premium account, where the base will not be the total guarantee of deposits from natural persons, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized legal entities, but rather the amount of bank deposits provided in the amount of 50,000 euros. This actually means that we will enable, or create, conditions that banks have up to 30% savings. So, there will be more free resources of as much as 30% for investment investments, and that means for us citizens, of course, for legal persons, that we will be able to raise loans at lower interest rates, and that directly means increasing business activity, i.e. the creation of new jobs. The change also provides for a change in the fund's target amount. This was the minister at the start of today's debate and brought forward, so the target amount of the Deposit Insurance Fund is changed from the current 5% of the deposits secured to 7.5% of the deposit amounts provided, and the legal solution provides for an extension of the deadline for reaching that amount by 1 January 2030, not until 1 January 2025, as foreseen by the existing law. The new legislative solution also foresees that the depositors will also be secured in cases of restructuring not only in cases of bankruptcy and liquidation, as the case has been so far. When it comes to the draft law on open investment funds with a public offering and alternative investment funds, legislative solutions are proposed, not only by adopting the proposed laws, we will fulfil the obligations that we have made under the negotiating chapter 9, which are financial services, but by adopting these legal solutions, contribute to the creation of a favourable legal framework for the development of the capital market. The adoption of two completely new laws by natural and legal persons, domestic and foreign investors will be far more motivated to invest on the basis of collective investment in various securities of value, compared to classical sources of funding, as has been the case so far, because natural persons and legal persons have mostly invested on the basis of the deposit tool and have achieved income based on interest rates. So now they are given much greater opportunities for investment. A new legal solution specifically to the Alternative Investment Funds Act will allow micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia to develop, and this is also the objective of the Government of Serbia. So, the government's goal is to make micro, small and medium-sized enterprises more involved in creating GDP. In fact, the government's goal is to monitor world trends, develop a stable financial system. The main motive of investment in investment funds is that at any moment investors will be able to withdraw their role or part of the role and by submitting it to the investment fund management company. Unlike the cash deposits that we cannot dispose of before the deadline of the handover, we have at our disposal the funds of the investment fund within seven days of the submission of the requirements for the sale of investment units. And that is the main motive for which investors, i.e. investors, will opt for investment through investment funds. Legal solutions also regulate the total borrowing of the management company in the name of the fund, in order to maintain the required liquidity level and that limit is 10% of the value of the fund's assets. Also, in order to maintain a high level of liquidity of the fund's assets, the bill provides that the assets of the fund should not be used to provide guarantees and guarantee loans in favour of third parties. In this way, the members of the fund, i.e. investors, are fully protected with regard to the availability of liquid assets in the case of the sale of investment units, i.e. in the case of the withdrawal of work and the total share of the fund. The legal solution at the lowest possible level leads to the risk of investment in investment funds, whether it is an open, closed investment fund, with a public offering or whether it is private investment funds, because it is foreseen that the Securities Commission is monitoring the work of the company for the management of investment funds in continuity. In Serbia, otherwise, the Law adopted on 2 June 2006, which suffered changes in 2009, 2011, 2014 and the existing legal solution enabled the establishment and functioning of investment funds, but did not allow the development of the investment fund and new legal solutions should in fact be resolved, to develop even more, i.e. to establish, both investment fund management companies and investment funds themselves. So today Serbia is fully moving forward with the world when it comes to the economy. It is amazing how much the topics in Serbia have changed today when it comes to economics, and this has been recently discussed by the minister. In 2012, we talked about how many people were fired, how many unemployed workers, how many factories were destroyed, and that was our biggest problem. In 2012, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy. It was crucial for us in 2014 and that year was crucial in terms of making a difficult and courageous political decision to implement difficult reforms and introducing fiscal consolidation measures. By 2019 we are talking about a positive budget rebalancing, we are talking about higher revenue in the budget than expected and the savings we have achieved in the budget and how to schedule these savings. So, the savings we've made, the revenue that we've made, the increase in pensions and salaries, the capital investments, the resolution of the risk credits in Switzerland, and that's good for the citizens. How much the subject changed in Serbia compared to 2012 says that today we have an inflation rate of 2.2%, and in 2012, it was 11%. Also, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia today is close to 50%, and in 2012 it went up to 76%. SNS policies are new jobs and a high standard of living for all citizens. The SNS policy is also the average net profit of over 500 euros, as it will be at the end of December this year, and the policy of the previous government was the average profit of 320 euros. SNS policy is also a minimum profit of 255 euros, not 150 euros. This, respected citizens of Serbia, is a responsible policy, not violence and hate speech for all of us who think differently from the previous government and the opposition. We differ from the previous government and by gaining knowledge through learning and working and reading books, not through social networks, as they do. The SNS didn't drive the citizens abroad. It wasn't the SNS who closed over two thousand factories and fired over 400,000 workers, but the previous government. The Serbian Progressive Party opened over 200 factories in less than seven years and hired more than 200,000 people. SNS policy is a battle for every workplace and every factory. We fight to get those citizens who have left our country back, by offering them better conditions than the countries where they are currently located and also by fighting for those citizens living in the Republic of Serbia, to give them better jobs, proper jobs and high earnings. So, higher standard of living. Only if we look at GDP growth will we see GDP growth that businesses in Serbia will be in a position to import labour. The result of SNS policy is that it is better for all citizens of Serbia today than yesterday and that all of us citizens will be much better off tomorrow than today and therefore the SNS parliamentary group will support all laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61674	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more registered representatives, i.e. the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposals for the law in point. 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. The word first has the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not present. ) The word has the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My biggest dilemma is not to pass new laws, but to coordinate or so on. Harmonisation with EU legislation, as you popularly say, and that means that we adapt to EU legislation, without any certainty of EU membership, especially if we remain on the protection of national interests and the preservation of the AP KIM as part of the Republic of Serbia, because I see that we spoke earlier - both Kosovo and the EU. No one's using that wing or slogan today, which is very worrying. I don't mind taking some legal decisions from any country's legislation that we think is better than ours and promoting it, but going like this, I really don't know what's going on? Secondly, even when we comply with EU legislation, even when we get incentives from the EU, donations, pardons, not subsidies, we do not apply what we have agreed. A concrete example is two and a half million euros in EU donations, which the EU has invested in equipping 31 regional centres in Serbia for testing pesticides in agriculture and have also been used to train personnel, whether one or two agricultural experts per their own centres. It was realized five years ago. We didn't want to respect that by amending the law at one of the previous sessions. That, even, did not want to be respected by the Committee on Agriculture, when the amendment and addition of the Law in question were considered. Then the question is why do we do it anyway, and this is for the benefit and preservation of the health of farmers, and protection of consumer health and the safety of the environment, given all the negative factors that can arise based on the use of pesticides. If we are doing so with a law that is obviously useful, or with one activity that is obviously useful and defined by our law, and we are then in the allocation of funds from the IPARD project, there is one questionnaire relating to the certification of pesticides. I'm interested, on what basis does this asset certification take place when no one uses or employs these centers, or uses equipment and employs professionals who are trained? It is the same with regulations relating to the so-called so-called ‘gap’ or good manufacturing practice. These are questions that aren't just about this. Also, to return to yesterday's controversy with Mr. Minister, who said I have one man in Serbia whose interests I protect. I will tell you that this is not true and, behold, I will now read to you that I have only yesterday, after discussing here, the demands of farmers who have not been settled subsidies from 2017 and 2018 from a completely different region. These are maritime villages and I will read their names: Svetić Milomir, Guncati, Radonjic Mirko, Bomberevo Brdo, Milenković Momcilo, Guncati. Also, there is a larger group of farmers who have not received incentives since 2017 and 2018, and only three months ago have they been asked to supplement the documents and have not received even solutions in the past three months after the addition of the documents. I don't know if it fits that minister's information that it's only 160 farmers who haven't regulated the issue, but it's obvious it's not true that there was only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61676	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61677	If there's only one piece of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61678	Here you go. Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61679	Information was released yesterday after a controversy on Austrian television, Austria's recent Interior Minister, Herbert Hickel, said a contract with Serbia was signed that all migrants who do not receive asylum in Austria return to Serbia. Please, is that true? If so, where can you gain insight into this interstate contract? This contract or agreement has not been verified in the Assembly, as far as I've known since 2016 and here, and it's a newer date. Furthermore, I am not responsible for the question I have asked about the 300-euro funds per migrant, which was about the controversy on the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61680	Thank you. I'm sure you'll get the answer, Mr. Chevarlich. Thank you. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61681	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I will take this opportunity, although the topic is related to alternative funds and investment funds, just a few hints about the issues we had the chance to hear. So, by rebalance of the budget that we are discussing these days, the total budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry is exactly 5% of the total budget, just as the law provides. So exactly 5.00% and that's the first answer to the first question. As regards the percentage of execution, and this was the question, if I am not mistaken, so the percentage of the execution of the Ministry of Agriculture and their budget was 99.3% in 2014 and 93.7% in 2017 98.9% in 2018 94.9%. We'll see how big it's gonna be in 2019. And that was the question. Of course, this is all public data, but it's no problem to divide two numbers, so let's give this information as well. The third question was about the Agrarian Payments Authority. It's a very important piece of information, to see how the subsidy budget is growing year after year and for the incentives of agricultural producers. In 2016, the budget amounted to 23,670,621,000 dinars. Already next year, 2017, from 23 to 26, 26,278,803,000 dinars, 2018 29.208.636,000. So year after year for three billion dinars more. This year, 2019, 36,343,814,000 dinars. So seven billion dinars more than last year. These figures and these figures best show our commitment to the development of agriculture. So this is not a whole budget, this is just the Agrarian Payments Authority, which is just aimed at helping and encouraging the development of agriculture. So, from 23.6 billion in 2016 to 36.4 billion in 2019. The question was also about the Regulation on conditions and how to exercise the right to incentives in livestock for quality breeding throats. Under this Regulation, Serbia provides incentives for high quality breeding throats and these incentives are accounted for and paid towards the breeding throat of known origin. More specifically, high-quality dairy cows and tow cows and bulls, quality breeding sheep and rams, goats and goats, high-quality breeding pigs and skewers, parent chickens of an easy and difficult type, parent turkeys, as well as quality fish nuts of carp and trout. The amounts of incentives, since that was the question, are next. Quality dairy cows - 25,000 dinars per throat. Quality tow cows - 25,000 dinars per throat. Quality breeding sheep and rams - 7,000 dinars per throat. Quality breeding goats and goats - 7,000 dinars per throat. Quality breeders and growths - 15 thousand dinars per throat. Parent hens of a heavy type - 60 dinars per throat. Parent chickens of an easy type - 100 dinars per throat. Parents' turkeys 300 dinars per throat. Quality breeding queen carp fish - 500 dinars per throat. Quality breeding queen trout fish - 300 dinars per throat. The amount of incentive funds, i.e. the condition for the exercise of the right to these funds, is that the applicant has a minimum of 30 quality breeding sheep and, for marginal areas, areas with difficulties in agricultural work, minimum 10 quality breeding sheep or rams. The ultimate goal of improving livestock production in Serbia is to create large goods producers that will be able to provide sustainable production of an adequate quantity of products intended for broad consumption and exports. So these are precisely the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined to be aimed at building up the herds, because that's the only place you have more productivity, greater efficiency. After all, bigger revenues. In doing so, under the Investment Support Regulations in primary agricultural production, producers can also make grants for the purchase of high quality breeding throats of 50 to 65% even from the amount of investment, depending on whether the assets belong to an area with difficult working conditions in agriculture or not. So I hope I showed you through the exact figures, firstly, that the participation of the agriculture budget in the total budget is exactly 5% for 2019, that the percentage of the execution is very close to 100%, which is quite acceptable for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have shown that since 2016 the budget of the Agency for Agricultural Payments has increased from 23.7 billion dinars to 36.4, which clearly shows the government of the Republic of Serbia's direction towards encouraging producers, agricultural primary producers. You have also heard about the measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is applying to improve excessive livestock production and remain the production that is necessary for our primary agricultural production to grow from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61682	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61683	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I don't believe my computer is disabled and can't multiply two numbers. So tax revenues per rebalancing amount to 1,092 billion and 800 million. When you multiply it by 5%, as prescribed by the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, it gets 54 billion 640 million. The same budget rebalance proposal for division 24 envisions 54 billion 614 million 663 thousand. This is the data from your amendment and supplemental bill. So it's not 5%, because it's less than 25 million 337 thousand. That wouldn't be so significant and it would be and the subject might be tolerance, and if it doesn't have to be, then why is there a law that prescribes 5%? But the problem is in the following, Mr. Minister, which you won't admit is that Serbia is the only country in the world in which you treat the entire division of 24 agriculture ministries as a fund for incentives and subsidies in agriculture, which is not true in any country in the world. I do not dispute the need for other positions in section 24, they are objectively necessary, but it cannot be the Incentives Fund, and this has been amended by the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development in 2016. Also, I don't dispute that this information you listed about the height of the incentives, you took it from the rules, but I was still arguing, I checked yesterday, at least in central Serbia, 20% of registered agricultural holdings, small, because this year the limit for the allocation of cattle' throat subsidies from 10 to 30 throats was increased, about 20% of them lost their right to incentives. It is the same with landowners who have increased the limit from two to three cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61684	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. Minister Sinisha Mali said. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61685	Thank you very much. So, just before we talked about the figures, to be clear, the participation of the agriculture budget in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia is 4.99999%, which is 5%. If that's a big problem, then it's really a question for another discussion. What is particularly important to me, and what I insist on is that exactly the budget of the Agrarian Payments Authority is growing from year to year. I just said, from 23.4 billion 2016 to 26.3 2017, 29.2 – 2018 and this year 36.4 billion. As for the subsidies and applications you heard about earlier, I said yesterday, and I will repeat, so, at the moment of 160,000 demands, there are about 960 that are being completed or resolved in complaints. That's, if the calculator works well, 0.6%. So we're talking about 0.6% of the demands that will surely be resolved in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61686	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61687	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are people who are very forgetful and have reason to be forgetful, material reasons. So the agrarian budget is over 5%. Neither the minister nor the older gentleman, who is often modified, are right. So, the agrarian budget should drop all costs related to the agrarian. You forgot cooperatives, cooperative funds. Mr. Krkobic, as far as I know, has over 600 million dinars. So it's not the agrarian budget of 4.9999, but the agrarian budget is over 5% when we join the funds for the agricultural cooperatives. I guess farmers' cooperatives fall into agrarian. But I know a gentleman who was a dear guest with Dragin and Dusan Petrovic. Then the agricultural division was 22 billion. The grant funds are now around 43 billion and 711 million, and then they were somewhere around 22 billion. And then he didn't mind that, say, 2%, 3% of the total budget, but on the contrary, that was great. And why is that? We need to discuss investment funds here. Well, let's discuss the World Bank. The World Bank granted us a loan to start a 17 million-dollar project. It was intended for the Old Mountain, remember, agriculture on the Old Mountain, but there were various consultants from Zemun, Belgrade, etc. who took the major of these pairs. The money for agriculture and livestock on the Old Mountain ended up in their pockets. Now, if you get 63,000 euros from the start of the project for the Old Mountain, unfounded for one of your associations, then you have a material interest in forgetting that the subsidies were once less than 130%, then forget that the agricultural budget was two and a half times smaller than now because there is a strong material interest. Forget it and then that Ivana Dulic Markovic has imported genetically modified soybean products, and now despite the law that defends imports of genetically modified organisms and traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and production, you are looking for a declaration and statement, a pledge, despite the law that defends it. So there is a strong material interest of individuals here to object to the government, that is, to defend those who have fatally funded them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61688	Thank you. Comrade Chevarlich, you have no basis for replication. (Miladin Ševarlić: According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107.) You can do that, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61689	Thank you. It has been pointed out several times that someone got 62, 63, 57 and I don't know how many thousands of euros. I asked for that document to be shown. Even those who participated in the reality programme must know that the invoice is not an individual order, but is a financial document relating to the project documentation. 14 researchers from the country and abroad were engaged in the project. On none of these projects, none of the projects under the competition were as many participants from abroad as I was in the project. And my income on the project for two and a half years was about 4,500 euros. Therefore, the difference between those two amounts is not the amount that I received, and that the competition is called, whether it was intended or not, I really don't know. I can only point to the same subject another study done that represents an even incomplete phone book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61690	My colleague Ševarlic, you pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of 107th and said that someone had provided certain information. It is the legitimate right of every MP and I cannot influence it. So I do not see how I violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as I cannot influence what MPs will talk about during the debate. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to declare the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you, Mr. Chevarlich. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61691	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 103, 108, 106. You should have reason to harm the Rules of Procedure. That reason didn't exist. The gentleman himself has recognised himself and, Mr. Chairman, you certainly remember fellow MPs that I have repeatedly shown financial documentation that says that in the period from 2007 to 2012, from the Old Project, which is the World Bank's loan, which brings back our country, instead of developing livestock on the Old Mountain, several consultants paid millions of euros. Among them, an older gentleman won invoices with his signature of 63,000 euros. Now it's said they were foreign researchers. Those invoices don't say that. So it's an association run by the older gentleman and that association has received 63,000 euros per invoices signed by that older gentleman. So, what was meant to develop livestock on the old mountain I was trying to explore. Those who released that money, and it was a party to the former regime, these yellow cockroaches, were about to interpret it this way, that the cattle had disappeared on the Old Mountain, so the money couldn't be used for the development of livestock farming on the Old Mountain, so it was used for consulting services to various consultants, including an older gentleman who here wanted to tell us that 22 billion from 2012, more than 54 billion this year, were using the same course. One more thing to say, this is what cooperative funds are added to, and someone who taught cooperatives at the Faculty of Agriculture in Zemun would certainly know that this should be added to these 54 comas a little billion and then you get a bigger figure in the agricultural budget and a percentage of 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61692	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61693	I thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, given that the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, our friend Snezana Paunovic, highlighted a clear view of supporting the set of these laws, I will really not repeat it, but my focus of discussion will be more related to the amendments and additions of the Deposit Insurance Act. Namely, the Deposit Insurance Agency is an institution that has an extremely important role, an extremely important role, especially as a bankruptcy manager in bankruptcy proceedings run over banks. Why am I saying this? I am talking precisely because of the very long bankruptcy proceedings, the extremely complex bankruptcy cases, where, unfortunately, because of the very long-term conduct of the proceedings, the courts are marked in an extremely negative way, I find it completely unwarranted, given that the courts are not guilty of why the banks came into the position they came to. One of the moves that should, in any case, be supported, when it comes to the business of the Deposit Insurance Agency, is to try to relax the financial situation, when banks that have bad claims are at stake, and that business move was tied up, and you and how well you know, for an offer on the market, are selling these so-called. bad bank claims, which weren't very few. It's about claims, not just banks, but states according to legal persons whose nominal value, you correct me, was at a time of 1.82 billion euros, and I think it's a total of 727 billion euros. What I think might be that the data doesn't exactly match the statistics that exist, but in any case it's extremely high amounts. What should be pointed out is that, through the offer of these claims, an attempt to relax banks on one side has been made on the market. On the other hand, it is a kind of attempt to solve all of these issues, which, to be honest, last close to 20 years, as part of a strategy run by the National Bank of Serbia and the Deposit Insurance Agency. Why do I say close to 20 years? Because of the bankruptcy of banks that went bankrupt in 2002 and the mention of "Beobank" or "Belgrade Bank", "Investbank" and some other banks. In 2004, a second number of banks also went into bankruptcy for the same reasons, in order to continue the trend in bank departure in 2012 and 2013. It seems to me, if I have recorded this correctly, that the claim from Beobanka was offered at 355.5m euros, if I have well perceived it. "New Agrobank" 196,8m euros, followed by "Universal Bank", "Vojvodine Development Bank", etc., etc. I hope this data is accurate or approximately accurate. If there's a mistake somewhere, of course, you won't mind me, because the essence of my discussion is just to point out that the huge amount of demand, the bad claims were the subject of discharge in this particular way, through an offer on the market. How the market will respond to that offer, it's a matter of the market, so we MPs and the Ministry of Finance will have an answer to that, hopefully, anytime soon. What should be pointed out is that the ultimate goal of resolving banks' problems is that these problems, not only take years back, are literally holding back the economy of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we are in the SPS parliamentary group, the honourable ministers, agreeing with your view that the sale of these claims, which I pointed out, will return the property to economic flows, in order to re-activate the resources. This means that the property that has been trapped for years is released and, of course, if we make one effort to return to economic flows, we will affect economic growth. I think that was your position when you decided to enter this strategy in front of your ministry with the contribution that these problems will be solved as soon as possible. I have to point out, I'm going to leave the reserve behind again, that, if I'm not mistaken, about 240m euros of the first package of problematic loans were sold in June of this year. I think that information is correct and I think it was done only after 18 years. So, for the first time in 18 years, one such move has been made. Why? Because in the last 18 years, no one's ever had a finger move for financial problems like this to come up in the first place, let alone solve it. The sale of disputed claims is otherwise defined in a programme that Serbia also has in a package of measures, which Serbia has with the World Bank and the IMF. Over the last 15 days, the Deposit Insurance Agency has announced three real estate ads to sell seven state-owned banks in bankruptcy. When I say this, I also point out the very important role and role of the Deposit Insurance Agency in terms of resolving not only these financial issues, but financial stability in general, which means full consolidation of the financial situation in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it's about offering the immovableity of an extremely high value. Why am I saying this? It's about banks that had huge assets. That property recorded the figures when it came to value, not more than a million, but tens of millions of dollars. That property is now more or less trapped. No one benefits from that property, at least the state. Not to mention the creditors of the creditors, and the creditors are the banks in bankruptcy. So the question is, how will the trusts of the debtor, the bankruptcy and the distinction of trusts be settled unless this property is unblocked? So, there's a problem that can be multiplyed and it's good that you've accessed this problem in the way you've handled it, and right through the Deposit Insurance Agency over which, to be honest, you have to do certain work control, regardless of what we've been doing lately, we have positive trends that I've pointed out. When I say it's multimillion-dollar property, I just have to point to a few characteristic data. For example, the building land "Universal Bank" in an area of 53,000 square meters, I think it's right here in Belgrade, is extremely high. It is enough to sell these assets to relax the position of the creditor, to enable a balanced and most favourable settlement of creditors and other creditors. There are, of course, specific credentials, but let's be honest and relax the court, because we've tied our hands to the court. We've tied our hands to business courts if we don't do this, because the bankruptcy will take longer than it has ever been. So these are some things that must be highlighted as actions that have justification. The state has decided to charge the assets of the failed banks, and I think it's an attempt to achieve that cash amount that will achieve all of the above-mentioned objectives exactly the essence of the attempt to implement the strategy, not only, but to lead to the ultimate goal, that we no longer have in bankruptcy the banks that have, precisely this status that I was talking about. What should also be pointed out, I think that these data for verification, so as they are not true, you certainly have more precise and more accurate data, but according to the knowledge that I've come to, these so-called "failing banks", are precisely in this kind of process, in this trend, selling nothing less than 100 continents, of various species, it's about immovable property, which is business space, which apartments, what family housing buildings, etc. I will only list some who have appeared as real estates with extremely high value, such as New Belgrade's apartment, worth 13.2m euros. It's a family apartment building with multiple housing units, more overall. Then, that 22 "Universal Bank" properties were offered in the Danube Street, it is also a multi-story one that has an area of approximately 5,700 square meters. Let's just remind ourselves that in this Corps and "Yugobank", "Beobanka", "Invest Bank" and other banks, which have been bankrupt since 2002, date back to today. What you and you know well, given that I'm involved in justice by profession, we have a big problem when it comes to court relations, in these bankruptcy proceedings, by the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Why? Because unless this part of the property is unblocked, we are in a position for the state to bear the burden of liability and liability due to the damage caused by a trial that implies a breach of the trial within a reasonable period of time. Why? Because these maltene bankruptcys are decades old, and consider that bankruptcy under the Emergency Nature Bank is, that is, the so-called "emergency" code. Emergency procedure. If you have that in mind, and that's an indisputable fact, the question is automatically asked -- how are we ever going to get out of a vicious circle, when we have so many bankruptcys, and to take bankruptcy proceedings under frames, or emergency standards. That's impossible. Then a complete edifice of public opinion turns in a negative sense towards economic justice, which is inadmissible according to some of my deep convictions. It is inadmissible for the reason that no one has provided the possibility of unblocking property from which a bankruptcy mass can be formed, in order to settle the claim of those creditors that this right under the law should be exercised. What should be pointed out in the entire Corps of this discussion is the beginning of a bank crash, where the Deposit Insurance Agency has not taken care of enough and has not taken care of some situations where it had to do so, so I'm going to start with Agrobanka. Agrobank is a specific example. One specific case and an indicator of work that must never be allowed again, let alone tolerate when banks are concerned. What's the matter? The same Agrobank as some other banks have approved loans to companies that don't normally deserve a single dinar loan. They were companies that were over-indebted. These were companies that could not guarantee the repayment of loans, those were companies that threatened the risk of inability to pay or the inability to settle obligations. They were companies that fired employees to establish liquidity, and the liquidity was never established. These were mainly private companies headed by persons who unfortunately were creditors of banks and as natural persons and thus allowed themselves to appear through this particular personal interest or protection of personal interests, their companies in the status of inequitableness, and the bank of inability to obtain its claim from such companies. Thus, there was one domino effect, which means that as Agrobank went into bankruptcy, so after her and some other banks went straight behind her into bankruptcy. Why? Because the deposit and the savings of Agrobank were transferred to the new Agrobank, the new Agrobank continued the trend of one terribly bad business or negative business, and then there was a consequence that implies that I was threatening other banks as well. The state found a rescue solution in this sense that, as far as I remember, savings from the new Agrobank were transferred to the Postage Savings Bank and indeed that rescue solution was in absent time, because if it hadn't been done, the question of what would have been the consequences if it hadn't been done? What is also very important, should point out that another problem arises in this whole situation, which is that no disputes are being conducted. I'm sorry that the minister isn't here, but the interesting story is that, before 2012, I speak very precisely before 2012, when this criminal way of working banks and the relationship of banks with their commissioners began, mostly towards their debtors, and I say that these debtors are mostly large private companies whose heads were persons connected to banks, that after all this happened, none of the banks had filed a lawsuit against those persons. I don't know if criminal charges have been filed, maybe they have, maybe they haven't, I won't get involved because there's a responsibility for the spoken word, but it's interesting that a very small number of disputes have been brought before the courts to resolve these issues. The question arises – for what? Were banks then protecting those who owed them or were banks protecting their interests? I leave the question to those to whom this question should be asked, I speak in a period when these problems began to resolve significantly before 2012. I'll remind you, since 2002, the banks' collapse has begun, since 2002, a financial breakdown has begun, with extreme financial instability starting since 2002. It's just that the question is, did someone answer the law for the state's finances? And if there is a responsibility, there is responsibility in a very small number of cases, and the question arises and what is the number of judicial decisions in such situations? I'm not sure if we have the information and if we can get the information who was responding because of these irregularities and whether he was having adequate legal consequences? At the very end, respected ministers, all of what I have said confirms the correctness of improving the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency, the strict control of the assets of banks still in bankruptcy, that this property is protected in terms of protection of bankruptcy and that bankruptcy proceedings are thus relaxed. On the other hand, what needs to be pointed out is the fact that with this bill, you have contributed to making our legislation as close as possible to EU legislation, which is our obligation in terms of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, or to permanent membership in the EU, whether the EU remains in this format or not, and what consequences our path will have, but our path must be exactly as we have tracked it and we must continue it. Once again, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, in voting day, we will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61694	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Rističević, I assume you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, since during a little earlier debate, you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I said I expect you to leave the data, so I assume you want to do so now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61695	It's about Article 107. That's what you asked for. Due to the documentation you requested under article 107, the number 1 invoice of December 10, 2010, says – on the basis of the aforementioned contracts, please pay 40% of the 60,000 euros, 24 000 euros on the basis of the aforementioned contracts. Here's the signature of an older gentleman who speaks so highly today that our budget of over 5% agrarian is not as good as 2% at the time. Here's the invoice no. 1. Remember the date of December 10, 2010, advance. Let's move on. The same day, invoice number two, amazing. Slobodan Teofanov, the famous assistant minister, later known in Pajtic's government for granting subsidies exclusively to yellow personnel. Then on, invoice number 2, 10 December 2010, same date, and invoice number 2. Al, you make invoices so special when you're an older gentleman. So, invoice number two says -- you put it on the name of the second tranche, the second tranche on the same day, the second tranche, the euro 60, 30% here, 18 grand, right? Those 24,000 and these 18,000, which is, 42,000 euros. Also, it's the second tranche of the same day. Pay attention again. The number 3 invoice, also a financial document, says, on the basis of the same member again, you pay on behalf of the third tranche, so it says 25%. That's all 95%, says - please pay 15 000 euros. So we've reached 57,000 euros. Here, like this, same signature for that gentleman, but you know what's interesting? What two assistants signed to make it look like three documents, three different dates, etc., and that's the same day, three tranches, 57,000. Here, the document says that it was paid, the Ministry of Agriculture, that the user is still asking for the payment of the activity after the contract is completed. If his contract is annexed, it will be necessary to return a larger sum of the euro. The ministry is commenting on paying for the rest, and here of 60,000 paid 57,351 euros. To all of this, in a Latin letter afterwards, the older gentleman addresses the Ministry of Agriculture, in a Latin letter, with an English header and says that they pay him first, there is a foreign consultant from Iran one Cabebu Sarmast, so the gentleman is called Sarmast, who I don't know if he was here at all, to pay 2,900, and another 1,050 for a trip, and yet printing the publication 1,370, and even the costs of the organisation in Pozarevec 2,100. It is far more than 63,000 euros that I have cited, and publications that are reportedly printed in 1,000 copies are nowhere to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61696	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I thank you for reacting in good time and delivering the information. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. We continue with the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61697	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs and citizens of Serbia are now on the agenda another one in line with economic laws, which is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, which in any case guarantees the stability of Serbia's financial system. The deposit insurance agency shall be tasked with ensuring the payment of secured deposits to both natural and legal persons in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the bank. In the process of restructuring the bank, the Agency shall assess whether the more comprehensive restructuring of the bank or the process of transfer of bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings against the bank is, and shall submit that report to the National Bank. Serbia's citizens' trust in the banking sector today is at an envious level, which was not the case in the previous period during the rule of the yellow elite. The deposit insurance system prevents and eliminates negative effects if crisis situations occur at the level of an individual bank, but also the banking system. The trend in savings growth has been observed thanks to the measures taken. The Agency shall manage the Deposit Insurance Fund. In 2014, the Council adopted The agency agreed with the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of projects to fill the Deposit Insurance Fund, which ended in 2018. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to further comply with international practice and standards, as well as with EU legal assets. The Fitch rating increased Serbia's credit rating from BB to BB plus thanks to our government and President Aleksandr Vukic's efforts. The agency envisions a continuation of Serbia's strong economic growth, and will contribute itself with the projected participation of the general government debt in GDP of 37.4% in 2028, which today is 51.9%. Low and stable inflation, which was 1.3% in August, while at the same time exchange rate stability, allowed the NBS to further reduce the reference interest rate to around 2%. The level of foreign reserves shows that the financial consolidation has fully succeeded and today amounts to 13.1 billion euros. The strengthening of the banking sector supported strong growth in credit activity, while the share of problematic loans was reduced to 5% at the end of July 2019 compared to 21.6% in 2015. At the end of today's presentation, I would take the opportunity to invite all Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija on Sunday, and vote for the Serb list, because it is the only salvation for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, not Rade Trajkovic, who, with his co-worker, Nenad Rasic in Albanian, may now be her native language, mocking the Serbian list and calling it a monster. The budget rebalancing also identified additional funds through the Serb's resolution ministries for the normalisation of life in Kosovo and Metohija. Despite all the resources identified for various infrastructure projects, I would say that just through the Ministry of Culture, funds are defined for the reconstruction of the Church of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška in Prizren, which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List. And not only is this project covered by this budget rebalancing related to the sanctity of Kosovo and Metohija, there is also the reconstruction of St. Nicholas' church, as well as the recording of a film about the kidnapped sanctuary from Novi Brda. Just to remind the Serbs that the first Serbian money was forged right there on New Hill. The funds have also been allocated to make a film through the Belgrade Film newspaper, "All Saints from Kosovo and Metohija", and I think it will just be the project that will be the most important for this institution. Therefore, all those who wish to work against their own Serbia, against their own country, should be honored because they have shamed their ancestors and their descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61698	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61699	The chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I was elected from the SNS list – Aleksandar Vucic, otherwise representing the USS, whose president I am. I will again, as I have spoken so far, and give support to all these bill proposals. All these laws, these are economic laws, because we have witnessed that in the previous period, Serbia has given the opportunity to develop, strengthen funding and all that is necessary. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly about the problems of small underdeveloped municipalities, municipalities that are the fourth group of underdeveloped municipalities. It would be a good idea in the next period, that it was a hint, that it would be possible for companies who wanted to employ workers in such municipalities, to ensure a reduction of the mandatory tax and the contribution that is now close to 60%, that, if there is a possibility, it would be at least 20-30%, or 40% less, so that these people could pay those people they employed there for that difference. I think the municipalities that are devastated, demographically threatened, undeveloped need such encouragement and, specifically, something similar is done for agriculture, these are municipalities with difficult living conditions, so-called. marginal municipalities. I think in this way, if we could stimulate such devastated and fourth groups of endangered municipalities through the releases of those taxes, because I think there was some hint about it, that it would really give effect, because that's how it was in the 1990s, when in this way the municipalities that had opportunities, and the state gave that benefit, in these municipalities, new jobs were being opened, people were being employed, and people stayed living there. Otherwise, all of us here in the Assembly see a lot of positive things being done, in particular I mean the development of road infrastructure, construction of railways, airports and all that contributes to the development of our small environments. I am sure that in the context of this conversation today and the talk about the economic problems we had in the previous 2012 which problems have been solved and I think that now our government, our President, Mr. Vukic, and you ministers are doing your job in the way that is best for our people. Once again, if there is a possibility, find opportunities to reduce tax and contribution, this mandatory tax and contribution to devasted municipalities in which there are much fewer births, much more deaths, to stimulate these people's new employment, because it is the only way to bring into our company, because we are witnessing that a lot of new jobs are opening up in Serbia, a lot of companies are coming, but there are no more serious companies in our municipalities that could normally employ a larger number of workers, such as in large centres. I think this initiative of mine, what I'm saying, you already know that, and you've already said something about it, would be positive for such municipalities, for labour, for agricultural producers. Finally, cooperative is a chance to develop our agriculture. Without cooperatives, there's no success. But through these stimulative programs that the state gives, which I've now proposed about liberating perhaps a certain part of the mandatory tax, it would be even better for people who live in undeveloped mountain-mounted areas, from which I come. Once again, I will vote in favour of these bill proposals because they are positive, because they are good, because it is a perspective in the future for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61700	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another day when we are forced to listen to all these praises about the golden age and how good and advanced the state of Serbia is, how we are world investment champions and many other facts. We've been listening here a lot, a lot of quotes of various data. Here, I'll try to get some official data from the Statistics Office to report. But the first thing that bothers me is the same explanation we had for the previous years. The minister said the adoption of this law is an obligation Serbia has to fulfil the conditions set out in Chapter 9 in the EU accession process. We have heard that there is indeed a huge impact on the adoption of this law, which unfortunately you are no longer hiding, there is also USAID and many other NGOs that have practically ensnared in the Serbian government and which dictate what kind of laws will be passed and directly affect their content. You know, or you need to know, because in this case even ignorance is not a liberating circumstance, that they are here first and foremost to achieve the interests of their countries. Do you think that their interest in Serbia is to be a rich and successful country or is it an interest to continue the economic domination of their countries, regardless of whether it's someone from Germany or someone from the United States? It is something that is completely normal and natural in large forces and that is why they establish different organisations through which they affect small countries, weak, divided, quarreled, as unfortunately Serbia is not only today, but also these previous decades. Can anyone think that their goal is to make us feel better? It's not. So they openly say that their interest in their citizens is to live well, which is why they are making moves that they are making and, in the extreme line, I have repeatedly said about Germany that what they did not achieve by tanks during World War I and the Second, they are now making economically dependent other countries around the world. It's something that's completely normal. You're saying that the adoption of this law will make it easier for us to be in charge. I'm asking you -- what kind of debt in the golden age? As far as I'm concerned, you've been too relieved to be in charge these past seven years since you've been in power. Ten billion euros in debt, in 2012, the public debt was about 15.4 billion, I may be wrong about something small, for some million, today, I looked at it, yesterday it was published, October 3, 2,837,379,925,283 dinars is Serbia's public debt. So let me repeat, 2,837 billion dinars. The debt today is over 24 billion euros, and it went up to 26 billion euros during your regime. Why if we're doing so well? Why if GDP is growing? Why if GDP growth is 4%, so we're some kind of champion? Why if we're world investment champions? What's poor Germany doing? What's poor France doing? What's poor Luxembourg doing? We have torn them apart on these lists, the only problem is that their citizens are living incomparably better and their GDP is five or seven or ten times bigger than it is in Serbia. In Germany, GDP is $51.760 compared to what the Serbian president says is $7.207 as much as it is in Serbia. That's 7.2 times more, $44,550 than in Serbia. And when you say that there is a 4% GDP growth in Serbia and that it is twice as big as in Germany, does this mean that our citizens live better? No, I don't. Does this mean that Serbia is moving faster than Germany? It doesn't mean anything again. You know, if Serbia had growth and for the next 10 years a stable growth of 4% a year. After 10 years, our GDP per capita would be $8,785. If Germany achieves its small growth of 2% annually, their GDP will be 63,095 dollars, which means it will not only increase, but will increase the difference of the entire $10,000 will increase the difference between GDP per capita in Germany compared to that in Serbia. That's the data, I mean completely defeating anyone who thinks good of this country. Slovenia currently has $24,597 of GDP and 4% growth, provided their growth is zero. So, if there was no GDP growth in Slovenia, we would need 32 years, 32 years to reach the level of GDP Slovenia has today. Is it a golden age and is that what you promised Serbian citizens. It is also very interesting that in 1989, 30 years ago, Serbia had a GDP per capita of about $19,000, today it is $7,200 and you're doing it with great success. To reach that level of $19,000, a level of 30 years ago, it'll take another 25 years. Imagine, twenty-five years, which means that if Serbia maintains stable growth every year from 4% only in 2044 we will have the GDP we had in 1989. At that point, it will be the GDP that we had 54 years earlier, or 55 years earlier. Is this something we should be proud of and is it after this data, and I repeat, it's official data from the Statistics Office, clearly why so many people leave Serbia? Because they're convinced that honest work can't live normally, that I can't buy myself and my family an apartment, buy a car, buy kids, grandkids, anything else that needs to have a man's life. And you say -- here we are, passing the law, and it reminds me to tell you about the situation when Nata Mesarovic read the verdict to the alleged murderers of Zoran Djindjic and when, instead, we reached a verdict, we said -- we got a verdict, which was obvious for many other reasons. So you, instead of saying – we passed the law, and you can say – we got the law, as you get from USAID, and from Soros, and the Open Society Fund and NAED and many others who cheer and dress in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Another defeating, in my opinion, is data on the external trade deficit. These data are getting worse and worse every year. Here, I took the data for 2017, for example, where it says that in 2017, the total foreign trade in Serbia, this is the data of the Republic Statistics Office, amounted to $38,000,939,1 million. So 38.9 billion dollars, which is a 15.3% increase compared to the same period of the previous year. The goods were exported worth $16.9 billion, which is 14.2% growth and imports worth almost $22 billion, which is 16.1% higher compared to 2016 and therefore the foreign trade deficit has increased in dollars to $4.95 billion. This is an increase of 23.4% compared to 2016, and in euros it increased by 4.37 billion, which is an increase of 22.2%. Foreign trade deficit, you know we have the largest with EU countries, we have a major external trade deficit with China, because of imports of electronic equipment, mobile phones and laptops produced there, but that's the problem that the whole world has. We have an external trade deficit with the Russian Federation due to imports of energy, but to import them from any other market, that foreign trade deficit would be incomparably greater. Serbia's surplus takes place in a trade exchange with the surrounding countries. That's then, I think, and an indicator of what you as a government would do and what Serbia as a state should focus on, because working with the markets we're just buying with, and we have nothing to sell, I don't think it's good. For 2018, further growth in trade exchanges and said total exports from Serbia amounted to 16.2 billion euros, was more 8.1% than the year before, imports were 13% higher, amounting to 21.9 billion euros. In this way, Serbia's external trade deficit increased by 30% compared to the previous year. That's the data that's devastating. If every year, four, five, six billion more imports and we pay more to other countries than we export, you understand that this is a road to failure and that as long as this external trade deficit is not reduced, it is simply impossible to expect a better life in Serbia. Serbia will be a good and rich country and a beautiful country for life, when it produces much more and when it is much more exported. Look at what they're doing exactly who you just think are friends, who dictate what laws you're going to make. Germany's economic power is based on exports, over a thousand billion exports and therefore dominate, which is why they are strongest and Serbia vice versa. Well, what's good for them isn't good for us, too. Here's an Italian expert, Mateo Bonomi, for the Institute of International Relations in Rome, says it will take countries of the Western Balkans 60 to 100 years to reach the EU's average GDP. Sixty to 100 years, it means that our grandchildren, our grandkids, may experience it sometime, and it is quite clear if we want to look the truth into our eyes that with this kind of policy we will never reach these levels of GDP, or we will never reach developed EU countries because they are politically destabilising Serbia, because they are kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija, because they will, and that, God forbid, someone will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, so I guess you are clear from the history so far and the country's relationship with the Republic of Serbia that they will immediately open a new problem. When they finished their job in Republika Srpska, they turned to Republika Srpska. When they finished the job there, they turned to Kosovo and Metohija. When they're done, they'll pick something else. Whether it will be Presevo and Bujanovac, whether it will be the Raska area, whether it will be the territory of Vojvodina, you know, I can't say it anyway, but it's certain. It is certain that they will find a new reason to destabilise Serbia to blackmail us when economic, political and otherwise humiliate us, weaken and destroy us. That is why Serbia needs a policy that will, above all, take into account the interests of Serbian citizens. That we are really developing our resources, that our experts are professors of the university, medical workers, and even drivers are not going to other EU countries, especially Germany, but rather developing their country and allowing the life of decent people to live here. It is clear that they do not want it and it is clear that as long as you listen to their dictatorship from a better life in Serbia will not be. You promote Serbia as a country of cheap labour, beautiful women and a good time. It is not what we Serbian radicals want, nor for our children, but for the children of any Serbian citizen. It is not for someone to come here with money from Europe on weekends, to live up to the poor in Serbia, and to lead others there to work and to build their country, but to be a proud nation. You'll be world champions when you're as successful as volleyball players, when you have more GDP than Germany, then you'll be world champions, not when you make 4% growth on this poor GDP, which doesn't mean anything at all. At that pace, Serbia will not become a happy and rich country in 50 years or 100 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61702	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a representative of Proposer Sinish Mali, Minister of Finance. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61703	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will look back on what we just had a chance to hear, and that is that in one country when it is produced and much more exported, it means that things will be good and things are good. Now let's look at our country's production figures here since 2012. Otherwise, the level of production, therefore, is also pictured through GDP growth. In 2012, GDP is 3,800 billion. The year 2013 is 4,100 billion. In 2014, it is 4,400 billion. In 2015, it is 4,300 billion. The year 2016 is 4,600 billion. The year 2017 is 4,750 billion. The year 2018 is 5,050 billion. In 2019, a projection of 5,408 billion dinars. So, we're doing GDP up. This means that more is produced in our country year by year and I agree with you and I am glad that you notice it, and according to this indicator, things in Serbia are better in terms of economic activities. You said, quote -- when it's much more exported, let's do another indicator. As far as exporting our goods since 2012, 2012 is 8,738 billion. We're going to export in 2013, it's 11,000 billion. In 2014, it was 11.200 million. In 2015, it is 12,038 billion. In 2016, it was 13,432 million. The year 2017 is 15,000 billion. In 2018, it was 16.3 billion dinars exporting our country to other countries of the world. If it's up to you, I guess the more you export, as you said yourself, the end of the quote. So on that side, I think it's clearly showing that business activity is accelerating year after year in our country. This is also the rate of growth in our economy last year is 4.3. This year we're targeting 3.5. Once again 4 next year, but what is more important is that through an investment cycle of over 12 billion euros over the next four years, with further salary and pension increases, therefore this consumer part of GDP growth, we expect even higher growth rates and, as the World Bank says, up to 7%, which is very important. In particular, it is important to point out for reasons of clarification that the relationship between imports and exports is. We just heard something about an external trade deficit. A few things are very important here. It's no secret that in the last 20 years, our industry has been devastated in the way large companies have been closed, people have been out of work, and exports have been shrinking, and imports have increased. This trend has changed over the last few years, and this also suggests that our coverage of imports is from 57% or 58% just a few years ago now to 74.9%, or last year. Therefore, more and more exports are being made relatively compared to what is being imported. That's an excellent piece of information, and that trend should continue. In addition, the structure of imports is changed. Only 15, 20 years ago, when there was no opening of new factories, imports were mostly consumer goods, what citizens were buying because there was no domestic production. Now they dominate, just before I read it, I can do it again, it's no problem, if he didn't listen. So, in the last eight months of this year, 740m euros in imports of equipment, so new machinery and imports of raw materials needed to make production, 740m euros in total imports, and the rest of 369,9m euros is imports of consumer goods, and that is also good data. I said just before, I'll say it again, because it means that living standards are growing, citizens have more money to buy the things they need, but more important than that, importing raw materials needed to carry out production and import equipment. It's just about new factories, new businesses that are opening and new jobs that we're opening. Finally, what may be most important is that the external trade deficit is entirely and more than should be covered by inflows from foreign direct investment. We were champions last year compared to countries of similar size, 107 foreign direct investment projects, $5.8 billion last year, and already this year, for the first seven months 43% more than last year, indicating that this year we will certainly be champions. So on this issue of macroeconomic indicators, export growth and import growth that show and that our economic activity is growing, the structures of imports that are very important, the coverage of exports, all this suggests that we are on the basis of the foundation of our economy on the right path. Finally, to look back at the comment, I don't know who said that, I heard someone say ease the borrowing. Through the measures the government takes, I don't know what it means to ease borrowing, but I'm leaving someone else to say it, I said it would be cheaper. When we talk about borrowings, it's very important that the state has reduced the risk of the country's investment through its credit ratings, it's very important, not just for the state, because they forget people when we talk about borrowing, about the state, about the population and about the economy. So companies, developing companies are in debt to banks for new investments, equipment purchases, expansion to new markets, introduction of new products, all this is much better when capital is cheaper. Agricultural production is largely financed from borrowed funds, since this requires the seasonal character of agriculture. It's much easier to be profitable here when cheaper sources of funding. The same goes for the population, the same goes for the state. This is the country's responsible relationship where, by reducing the country's risk of investment, through stable public finances, by raising credit ratings, you make the entire business environment more favourable and more competitive, you make the possibility of debt and the price of that debt much lower, which is ultimately our job. On the other hand, I am sure that these laws that are here today before you, the laws relating to budget rebalances and laws that will be particularly linked to the 2020 budget, will also contribute to the development of our market and the development of our economy, especially by planning never more investment in capital investments, further investment in infrastructure, travel, rail and other infrastructure. We have a salary increase, and since January 1st, pension increases. We are also going with further redistribution of the economy in terms of the reduction of income and taxes, and on this side I expect that together with the national investment programme of over 12 billion euros over the next four years, we will further stimulate the growth of our economy with the inflow of direct investment from abroad. Count here, since the largest number of these investments, if not all, is 100 % almost export-oriented to further export growth, relatively more than imports, but also expect that import structure that relates to the growth of imports of capital goods, capital equipment and raw materials that are necessary for the growth of our economy, to continue what is also a good sign, especially as I say where the total trade deficit and more covered by the inflows of foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61704	I thank the ministers. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61705	Mr. Mali, you are here in a very inexplicable situation, first of all, because you were an exponent of DS policy from 2000 to 2012. You were in office at the time within the Ministry of Privatisation and later when the Privatisation Agency was formed. I didn't hear you raise your voice until 2012 against that economic terror that, massacre, whatever you want to say, was being held by the DS over the citizens of Serbia. Now you're talking about how it didn't work out back then, but you were part of that team at the time. Please, if I may have missed, if I missed one of your interviews before 2012 where you strongly criticise DS policy and the regime at the time, here you share with me and with the public in Serbia. That would be a really valuable experience. As for your answer. You've completely misread my exposure. You are now reading some figures, which I believe are correct and you are talking about how exports from Serbia grow. But you cannot observe independent exports from Serbia, but must also be observed through the category of imports, so imports and exports are compared, so imports to Serbia are growing faster than exports are growing. A good economic indicator would be the other way around. That we are increasingly exporting and reducing the external trade deficit, and in Serbia it is different. I read, over 20% in 2017, 30% in 2018. That's what the problem is. You talk about borrowing and you say, you know, the yellow ones took expensive loans, and you gentlemen take cheap ones. The fact is that there were 15 billion debts in 2012, and today it's 24 plus billion. This means that 58% of the debt has increased in absolute terms. Ten billion euros. And that's good, that's progress. Progress would be to decrease, if it were ten, if it were five, I would applaud you, as well as the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61706	The word has a representative of the proposed Finance Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61707	So, honourable Members, first of all, let me answer these serious questions. It's a matter of mathematics. I'll do it again. If the export coverage by import, I apologize, the imports by export increased by 58%, 59% a few years ago to 74.7%, that means, sir, that in a relative relationship, imports grow slower than exports, or exports grow faster than imports. You chose one year and I don't know why you chose, it doesn't matter, it's probably easier to understand, but once again, if the coverage is higher, it's growing year after year, it can only mean one thing, and that's that in a percentage amount, we export more relatively than we import. If you can't add those two numbers, okay, no problem, but generally that's your answer to your question. Everything else is not true, speculation or misunderstanding. Furthermore, as far as public debt is concerned, in 2008, the total public debt was 8.7 billion euros, you probably know that. Then he jumped to 9.8, then to 12, then to 15, then in 2012 to 18. If we understand the economy a little bit, then you also know that the commitments that the state makes in the same year are pictured in public debt over the next year or two, it depends on someone broadcasting bonds for a year, two, three or five. Therefore, there is a growth of public debt in 2013 to 20 billion. In 2014 to 22, the peak of this would be 2015. So in 2015 in 2012, that's the difference of about seven billion euros, not 15, seven. The continuation of irresponsible policy between 2008 and 2012, then there was an increase in pensions, an increase in wages. Then you remember the statement – Our global economic crisis can't do anything, as much as our chance and not our threat. Then comes the violation of our country's public finances. Not in 2001, 2002 and 2003, but from 2008 to 2012. In 2014, we stopped this trend in public debt growth through responsible economic measures. As you can see, from 2014 onwards, public debt goes down. Not only is it going down, because I will remind you between 2008 and 2012 you also had negative GDP growth rates, so when you look at the growing debt and the falling GDP, public debt participation in GDP has increased and reached 78 or 79% in 2015. Then fiscal consolidation, taking care of each dinar, has led to a decrease in public debt participation in GDP year after year. Now your public debt is about 23.7 or 8 billion euros, something like that. So the same level or slightly smaller level than it was, I can read you the exact number, it's no problem, I'll read it. So in 2018, 24 billion 294 million dinars. So less than 2015 in absolute terms, and only in relative is it even worse for you. So, relatively from 77-78 to 51. So the economy is growing, economic activity is growing, and the level of public debt remains stable at an absolute level. You don't have any more debt in excess of what someone brought in 2008 to 2012, and on the other hand, relatively, you're falling. Best possible information. Finally, not to mention Sinisha or anyone else, the rating agency, the credit rating agency, which is why they gave us a credit rating. The same Fitch agency, which raised our credit rating last week, has cut credit ratings due to this debt from BB to BB minus 2012, and has now increased to BB plus. And the basic indicator of credit rating is always the level of public debt and GDP growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61708	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61709	Mr. Mali, you don't have a problem with me, you may have a problem with the Republic Statistics Bureau. And when you say that the data is worse or worse, it's not for me. They can only be worse or worse for Serbian citizens. And it is not you who defends the citizens of Serbia and their interests, but it is us. And that's the point. You are talking about statements by Boris Tadic from 2008 to 2012. But at the time he was your leader, you were part of the regime, and we were fiercely opposed to Boris Tadic's regime and he was just directed to destroy the SRS in every way possible, so he violated the constitution, changed the constitution, and there was nothing he did to do. In the end, he collapsed, the DS was completely broken, and we, radicals, here, as you can see, are still here. Second thing, you're talking about statistics. Here, I'll read the official data of the Republic Statistics Office one more time. In 2017, goods were exported from Serbia worth $16.99 billion. That's an increase of 14.2% compared to the previous year. But that's why it's imported 21.9 billion worth of goods, which is a 16.1% increase compared to the previous year. It means that imports are growing faster than exports and therefore the external trade deficit has increased to $4.95 billion and 23.4% respectively compared to 2016. It's official. And you can't interpret this any other way. You can show your hands, hair, right, vertical, horizontal, but this is the data of the Republic Statistics Office. As far as public debt is concerned, here's that information, and that information from the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Sinisha Mali. On October 3, 2019, this is yesterday, it's from the Ministry of Finance site, 2.837 billion 379 million 925 000 and 283 dinars. It's not 23 and something billion, it's 24.3 billion per course for one euro of 117. The Ministry of Finance's information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61710	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a proposalary representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61711	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, therefore, to confirm - the information we heard about 2017 is accurate, extremely important data for 2017. We can do it in 1818, it doesn't matter. But what is, regardless of what was important two years ago, is the trend in our public finances and payment accounts, which is that our exports are growing in percentages and relatively more than imports, and that the structure of imports is changing, so on that side, when you look at the period of the previous five years, we are on a good path and I hope that we will continue. As far as 2017 is concerned, make sure it's true. As far as public debt is concerned, the number you said must be correct, which just confirms what I was talking about. So, the highest rate of public debt growth, the destruction of our economy is moving in 2008 to 2012. As of 2014, there is a decline in this public debt in GDP and a little before the figure you said was in principle, not in principle, a little less than the debt at the end of 2018 - 24 billion 294 million, you said 24 billion 300 million, so we didn't increase it by a little and our GDP is growing, which is an extremely good indicator. On the issue, since when you don't finish and talk about the economy sometimes, but more often than sometimes you move on to politics, I'm proud of what I did from 2001 to 2003, in a government that has done great things in the development of our economy, without political engagement. Once again - no political engagement, professionally. I will continue to work and fight for the citizens of Serbia in this way that I am fighting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61712	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Sarovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61713	Mr. Mali, one thing you've admitted is that the data I've made is accurate in the dinar. Do we agree on that? You said it wasn't important in 2017, so can we do 1818? You want me to read you the 2018 data? Therefore, official data for 2019 will be available on the website of the Republic Statistics Institute only next year. This year is in progress. You can talk by heart now, it's much better, it's like this, it's like that. Can you guarantee Serbian citizens that the external trade deficit will be reduced by how much? Come on, tell me, it's going to be a billion, half a billion, a hundred million, and we'll back you up. I'll applaud you. It will then be a success if you say Serbia has reduced the external trade deficit. But you're not going to say that, you're playing with categories, it's a better structure, it's better this, it's better that. You know, in the end, you draw a line. For 2018, the line has been drawn and it is the last year. And he says, the data of the Republic Statistics Institute -- the foreign trade trade of Serbia in 2018 was 38.2 billion euros and was higher by 10.9% than in 2017, while the deficit increased by 30% to 5.6 billion euros, a statement by the Republic Statistics Office in Serbia. During last year, total exports from Serbia, this is now totaled, amounted to 16.3 billion euros and was 8.1% higher than the year before, while imports were 13.9% higher and amounted to 21.9 billion euros, not to play. In absolute terms and percent, imports grow faster than exports. That's why the external trade deficit is growing. That's not a good economic indicator. No host looks forward to being in charge, period. He rejoices when he repays his debts, rejoices when he buys, not when he sells and destroys what was created before him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61714	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61715	I waited for a colleague of Sarovic's to finish the replica, but also during that circle of replicas, the dignity of the Assembly was injured and you should have reacted. In fact, we started this session nicely this morning, with one reasoned debate, and I hope that in that sense we will end up and continue to discuss the amendments. It is not necessary, counterpart Milicevic, that we, by Mr Malo, respect his argument, he promotes government policy, fiscal policy and all that he has done and his team, but still, that we are constantly told that we do not listen, if we do not hear well, we will repeat ourselves, if we do not know how to add. We know all this very well, but the concept of our economic policy and the Serbian government is diametrically different. As part of his presentation, Col. Sarovic was professionally, argued... You say – politics is involved, so, of course, the economy is politics and the skills of a possible one. We're talking politics here, this isn't an economic forum, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we came here with clear data and policy, our SRS, which is wanted by 99% of businesses and entrepreneurs in Serbia. We've moved away from the darkness. These investment funds, you started with words this morning – will help businesses in Serbia get to capital in a easier way. Now, explain to us, you have not convinced me of this argument in replicas with Sarovic, so he has defeated you here, and now the minister can explain to me later, but without these, indeed, insinuating some anxiety or anger, there is no reason – how it is possible to give so much to foreign investors, and you know very well and you are an expert man from the economy that every country in the world, who wanted to grow GDP faster than you planned, is relying on investment for domestic investment. Domestic investment, which is devastating to you in your GDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61716	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Veroljub Arsic: Rules of Procedure. I heard you, colleague Arsic, just a moment. My colleague Jovanovic, I don't think I violated the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because I didn't want to interrupt the democratic debate and the confrontation of opinions. It is legitimate for you as an opposition party to have your position, but legitimately it is the right, of course, and the Prime Minister to represent the government's policy. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61717	Mr. Chairman, article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of one of our fellow Members whom I highly respect, and the reason is that he ceases to insult the intelligence of the other MPs. From his discussion, I can only conclude the following – that the concept proposed here is, which is why I consider it to be a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, that Serbia can develop exclusively with moats, wheeled roads, wooden jars, and I don't know what it is, not roads, bridges, railways, factories. So I'm asking you next time someone is trying to explain to a colleague that if you don't import equipment that you can't make or you don't have the conditions to make it, you can't even secure your own development. When he learns that, he will cease to insult our people's messengers. I don't want the National Assembly in voting day pleading.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61718	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Sarovic, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61719	Article 27. Mr. Milicevic, you should have stopped him right away, because he was a completely wrong member to whom he called. He said one thing, and he called another member. In my discussion, I didn't insult anyone at all. I'm sure Mr. Sinisha Mali will agree. Here, and he agrees with the conventional shop. Am I right, Mr. Minister? Did I offend you during this discussion? I didn't. You can see for yourself that the minister said that the debate was constructive, that it was democratic, and that was the confrontation with arguments, and then Mr. Veroljub Arsic was involved to talk about what he only knows about, and these are the disruptors, some kind of wooden chasm and rural roads. No one here mentioned it to me, believe me, it's really not my intention to replicate it, because I'd have to understand it first, and to understand it, it has to be someone far, far more professional than me, but a little bit of another profession. Thank you. Veroljub Arsic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61720	I hear you, colleague Arsic, you'll get a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Sarovic, you yourself said that I had no intention of preventing a democratic debate and a conflict of opinion. I gave you my word, and I will now allow Mr. Arsic, of course, to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61721	Article 108. Here, like this. I said earlier that it is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and the intelligence of the MPs because someone has been trying to convince me here from the beginning: that the 2012 GDP, which was 3,800 billion, is greater than in 2019, which was projected at 5,408 billion, or in 2018 5,050 billion. Isn't that an insult to intelligence now? Let's move on: that exports from 2012 amounted to 8,738 billion, larger than exports that amounted to 1,6300 billion in 2018. It's almost double the difference, but it's smaller and their exports are dropping, and their imports are growing. Fifty-eight percent of export coverage from 2012 is less than 74% of export coverage on imports in 2018. I don't know anymore or thinks we're crazy or he needs some digitron. I don't know what dytrons he's using. Let me tell you something. The same story was told by followers of Boris Tadic and with them the 2011 and 2012 GDP was higher than in 2018. I don't know where that resemblance came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61722	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Col. Sarovic, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61723	So, Mr. Milicevic, Mr. Sinisha Mali, I really don't think you need lawyers like this. You've been doing a lot better while you've been making your own arguments, and if anyone thinks you're going to do it better, this gentleman who spoke a little bit, you're wrong. We, of course, enjoy it whenever he answers the word, because it's endlessly fun for us in the SRS parliamentary group, and I trust the viewers by the small screens, probably in those moments and cooperatives loses their popularity, because some are transferring Mr. Veroljub to whom they are looking here, and they can't see him there, which would certainly be their wish. I haven't said one moment what the gentleman was trying to say. So, I listed precise data per year. I remind you that the previous 12-year regime has also found the culprit for everyone in Serbia in the previous regime, and that's what you're doing. In 2019, it is all your fault, Boris Tadic, who is to blame you Zoran Djindjic, Mirko Cvetkovic. Do you think that's why the citizens of Serbia chose you? Did you say in the campaign in 2012 – we will blame the previous regime for the next 10 to 50 years? Or did you say -- 100 billion investments, a fast-track office, an immediate economic improvement, an annulment of the Brussels agreements and a lot of other things, the removal of 100 agencies, and you're making new ones? So here's the question you want to compare yourself to. With the worst, like the DS regime. Are they catastrophic? They did. Who branded them to be the worst regime? Who came out after a few months of DOS victory, when many who now mention them were either on their side or not allowed out of the mouse hole to come out? Serbia's Radical Party with the "DOS password is the worst". We're not interested in them now, they're the past. (President: I thank you, colleague Sarovic.) I'm done. One more sentence. So I said that growth of 3.5%, 4% of GDP is not enough for a better life of citizens, because it's a disastrously low base, and that's the point. If we want a better life, if we want to get the countries out of the environment... To reach Slovenia takes us 30 years, if their GDP growth is 0%, it means their growth doesn't change, and our stable growth is 4%, and we won't have it. (President: I thank you. That's the point. It's not good enough. Is it better than it was last year? Yeah, it's almost there. Is it better than five years ago? It is, but it's minimal, it's not enough. It is much less than the expectations of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61724	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61725	103, Mr. Chairman, I hope there is no more need. We point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I have been resented by my colleague, Honorable Sarovic, especially when the title above article 21. The law reads equality, instead of labour law, or as a respected lawyer says that the president of the Republic of Serbia can be most elected twice in a row, so with a break, he can be elected for the third time, e, as far as it was true, that title and Article 116. The constitution that quoted in a completely wrong way, the president may be elected no more than twice, whether they are consecutive or not. So accurate are his Marko economical, all the other data and all his predictions, and now because of these and such ways he looks at state and state policies, it's no wonder he'll never participate in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61726	A colleague named Sarovic called before you. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak in accordance with Article 27, I appreciate the Members of the People and the Talkers for whether they can really get involved in some debate and say something new, to respond to events. Unfortunately, there are people here who remind me, I have little kids, you know, there's those dolls that when you hit the head she says one sentence, then you kick her ass, she says that same sentence again. Whatever happens, they repeat the same thing. So don't get involved in an argument with grown-ups unless you're ready to say something new, to react to the situation, to what's said. Repeating one sentence you learned is for a much smaller expression. So you're looking for another institution to talk to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61728	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I think we're getting too far from the subject. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The honourable MPs are now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 20 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61730	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, still somewhere today at the beginning of this debate, explaining in the opening part of this legislative proposal that is before us today, representatives of the government pointed out that this is the result of work, serious work and analysis of both state institutions and some other external ones, and we could conclude in fact the entire financial sector in Serbia. It's something that we don't suspect is essentially true, especially if we're talking about the one in the operational sense, making the law. However, I would say that these laws that are before us today, above all, are the result of serious macroeconomic indicators and fiscal reforms, which we have already been through. And yet these macroeconomic indicators and these reforms are the result of work and effort, primarily by the president and the government, starting in 2014, when a new policy was designed, headed by today's President of the Republic, followed by all of the next governments, to this day. Now, what are these indicators? I think it's important to say today, because today a lot of these statistics have been going through the debate and in order to even make a comparison, to say what kind of macroeconomic data these are and what reforms are and what this has led to today, this bill, which is the topic today. Well, above all, GDP growth, somewhere at 3.5% according to the 2019 projection, compared to that decline, i.e. minus 3% from 2012 and 2014 respectively, i.e. First of all, the public debt, which today is about 50% of GDP compared to 80%, was 2012 and 2014 respectively. Inflation somewhere in that period was 3.3%, and today only 2.2% according to the 2019 budget projections. And finally, certainly the unemployment rate, which today is slightly more than 3%, and at that time we had more than 25%. Now, all these laws and similar laws, which are in front of us, are certainly a product and result, precisely these indicators and measures implemented. The truth is, speaking of investment funds, their establishment started somewhere in 2008, but during that time in 2008, this time of year, September and October 2008, the world economy entered a serious recession. The assets of these funds began to fall significantly, and the funds were also brought to the level of marginal participation in the capital market. Now the comparison again. What follows as the response of the Serbian authorities in 2008 to the global economic crisis? The then president, and today, one of the opposition's leaders today, Boris Tadic, immediately in November of that year and in 2008, I guess by trying, I would say first of all, to deceive and not to encourage the nation, I quote, "There may be a chance in this crisis for the accelerated development of Serbia, not in the way we imagined, but in the way we must come up with it." Of course, promises follow from all that. Of the 200,000 jobs, on the preservation of the already existing, each existing job and on the increase of giving when it comes to folk cuisine. Of all that, the result is, not even an increase in giving in folk cuisine, but an increase in the need for folk cuisine, because the increase in giving was not possible, because neither was there any of these 200,000 jobs, new jobs, or any of the already existing jobs, but we had a huge number of crashes of employees, and therefore all the negative effects that would ultimately lead to a greater need for poverty. After all, greater needs for folk cuisines. Unfortunately, it wasn't Boris Tadic, the opposition president at the time, who was the only one who lied to the people. The entire Serbian government at that time was racing in which of them would be better and easier to lead astray. Neither were the current politicians of the government nor Jeremic nor Zivkovic nor Djilas, nor all those today who are political leaders of the opposition's work. Why am I telling you all this? In order to create one picture and that you could all, together with the citizens, make a comparison between the irresponsibility and the deception of the people by the Serbian authorities at that time and the responsibilities of the work and the effort that today's authorities have, headed by the president. It is this responsibility, order and work that has led to these indicators as well, and as a product and these legal proposals that are before us today and which we, the distinguished representatives of the Government, will certainly support in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61731	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the European Investment Bank, according to the President of the Chamber of Commerce, is missing about a billion euros in mid- and long-term loans from small- and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, so that these companies are difficult to reach bank loans, which is also the biggest obstacle to their growth. Therefore, any type of support of this category is more than necessary. A fundamental question arises, why is Serbia late for the countries in the environment that have brought these and similar funds back to life in 2007 such as Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia and even Bosnia and Herzegovina around 2000? Currently, there are 10 investment funds in Serbia, which are an alternative between savings and special investment. I hope that with this bill, it will arrange and deliver results for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in their lending. Of these 10, I will list several who operate in Serbia, such as Delta Plus, FIMA Proactive, Focus Premium, Cepter Capital and others. Unlike Serbia, developed countries that have close co-operation and a highly developed economy have about 1,600 funds that are part of the financial market themselves. Statistical data tells us that in 2018 more than 7,000 European companies received an investment and that is mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. Members of the SRS believe it must not be bypassed in this case by Russian and Chinese investment funds, which would certainly give greater security to our own, both small and medium-sized enterprises. It must be an effort for Chinese, as I said, and Russian investment funds to be used and put into the market of the Republic of Serbia, because we from China, and from Russia, we will have no blackmail, unlike the EU, which little by little, twists our hands and what will certainly give us under certain conditions, until we break our hand. Many small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia are creditworthy, where insufficient crafts for the raw materials they need, in order to have an effect on their business and give financial benefit. The market is underdeveloped, insufficiently present value paper, which would attract potential investors. Perhaps with this proposal, the investment and alternative funds law restores trust, both investors and users of these funds. According to experts, the main role in the market is housing, because those who have excess capital must invest it somewhere, because housing has proved to be the safest investment of excess capital, which we can conclude is evident in Serbia and to a greater extent. In the light of these funds, we can see that in 2017 investments of equity funds concentrated in companies, such as Poland 71%, then in Romania 14% of total investment values, Hungary 6%, Latvia with 5% of the total investment of private capital funds of countries in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. On this list, Serbia is, unfortunately, the last place. The reason for the last place was also defined that in Serbia national legislation does not regulate alternative investment funds as a special category, but one law covers the entire matter of investment funds. If by any chance Serbia had previously had such and similar funds, as a country in the environment, it might not have had non-sanitary dumps, similar to, say, from where I come from, Prepolje, as well as hundreds of others throughout Serbia, in such locations as at the time of Nemanjic, to raise churches and monasteries, such as in the village of Nemenkusce at the foot of Kosmaja. Maybe with the help of these funds, these and similar problems could be solved faster and better, but this is hypothetical, because we haven't had alternative investment funds so far, so that's why we don't have experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61733	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61734	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is indeed a pleasure to speak today in the National Assembly of Law Proposals, which follow the amendment of the 2019 Budget Law and other laws that define the issue of finance in our country, such as the proposed solutions on the agenda, which are here to strengthen the Serbian economy and create good business opportunities. The proposed solutions will increase the number of market participants and our domestic market will become more attractive for investment. Now, when we have a great state of play in the state register, when we want to share the extra income with the citizens of Serbia, and the surplus is provided with good political decisions, responsible work and in the best way we return to the citizens of Serbia, then it is a pleasure to find the legal solutions that we are talking about today, which will provide the best and safest model for investing in our citizens. After the difficult reforms carried out by President Aleksandar Vukic, the right way to focus money on citizens, the oldest, the unemployed, the new investments, is precisely the one we're talking about today. The finance ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in co-operation with President Aleksandar Vukic, implementing the SNS programme and smart incentive economic policy, delivers excellent results and speaks of Serbia's position on world-renowned lists, the relevant world institutions, which describe the country's rating and, of course, puts us in an increasingly envious position in terms of competition and an increasingly desirable investment destination. Such a good condition is described by the following facts, as we have heard before, four years in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Good economic policy has allowed us, for example, to have built over 300km of highways in the last five years, three years in a row, we have an increase in wages in the public sector, an increase in health pay, in police, in the Vojsca, in education, in pension increases. Serbia has never worked and was built again, evenly, on the whole territory of the Republic. The fact is that the unemployment rate is never less than 10.3% and that is not the end, the reduction of this number is done daily and it is certainly certain because of investment in capital investments, because of the construction of good infrastructure, because of attracting new investments and again because of the creation of new jobs. Responsible, smart investment policy, intensive work to improve the quality of life of our citizens, reduce the unemployment rate, register in Ub municipality, the community from which I come. In Ubb, there is a real expansion of development, and my colleagues from Ubb this morning voted in a local session, among other points, to amend the 2019 Budget Decision, due to surpluses in the local budget. It is important to point out that progress is being made in Ubbu compared to 2018 in 2019, and what is the trend in both the last few years and the whole country. Healthy policy has brought a surplus based on sustainable income. For example, income from income tax at the local Ub self-government increases year after year. In September 2018, that amount was 169m dinars, in September of this year, a few days ago, the figure of 207m dinars was reported. So, more people are working, and somewhere they've increased and a good atmosphere with stable finances has led to the realization of new projects. So those who come to Ub, to independent institutions, accompanied by TV "N1" and are making dramatic situations, and allegedly making a film, and these same institutions do not respect, do not respond when the law obliges them to report, in this case it is the court, probably leaving unsatisfactory from Ub when they see the results of the work of responsible leadership headed by President Darko Glisic. They can see, built the most modern kindergarten in Serbia, and for Ubljane is the most significant investment, because since the new kindergarten was built we now have a useful six thousand squares and most importantly there is no waiting list for children to enter the kindergarten. The value of this investment is 260 million. Reconstruction of the largest elementary school for Mačvanski and Kolubar County with the construction of a closed pool within the school. It's worth 350 million dinars. Construction of a modern green market, worth 231 million dinars. The complete reconstruction of the home of health, the completion of work in the spring, is the value of 178 million dinars, and today, a small sports fair has been opened in Ubb, and the work on the complete reconstruction of the expansion of the Sport-Recreative Centre, worth a million euros. We have a constant system of power grids, construction of new municipal and state roads, i.e. asphalting. From year to year, that number of kilometers is growing. A major major chance for Ub is going out on the highway “Milos the Great”. So, absolutely one good environment, both in Serbia and in Ub, and certainly our task here today is to bring good legal solutions, which will contribute to the improvement, modernisation of our country, all for the benefit of our citizens. Certainly, in voting day, the SNS will vote for such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61735	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61736	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it is still too soon for us Serbian radicals to talk about some optimal conditions for reviving liberal capitalism and liberal conditions on the market. Therefore, these laws that advocate "healthy competition" can make the market work, too weak for Serbia, in the sense that it has not been economically strengthened enough to be able to not only participate, but to provide relatively favourable conditions for free trade and free economy. Of course, we don't advocate being this state interventionist, but in any case, you have to take care and be careful always. What is quite clear, we are witnesses, despite the fact that the economic crisis of the wider scales was in 2008, the Belgrade Stock Exchange simply cannot function. It's too shallow a market, it's too poor for Serbia to say in the right sense that it works the way it's proposed in the law, especially when these pro-European laws are passed. What we think of as radicals is quite certain, and I think that the growing and ruling coalition, or, specifically, SNS, is not these laws are the main condition for EU accession. It is not these very adopted paperwork that contains these European laws and their rules, it is not a condition under which, if Serbia and this parliament adopt, Serbia will be a step closer to the EU. We all know what the main and basic condition for Serbia's entry into the EU is and that is a big sign of the issue. We are aware that Kosovo's recognition as an independent state, i.e. a silent transition towards Kosovo's membership as a new state in the UN. It's the only condition he's been insisting on lately. We are deeply convinced that, on a sound mind, no one will accept such a condition, no one will allow himself to sign and, in addition to this once more heated debate in parliament these days, there is something much more relevant, much more important, which is above both Parliament and our party interests, especially parliamentary interests, that is the day when elections in the southern province of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija should be held. We as a politically responsible party, the state-run party, are urging and calling for the largest number of Serbs to go to the polls. What's very important is that as many as possible, those who have the right to vote on these elections, who are scheduled to be pressured. We know history and we know everything about how it happened and how it's happening in the southern Serbian province, but we are aware that one part of the population is bitter. I'm talking about the most important part of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija or all over Serbia, they're bitter, they're literally angry at some of the things that have happened in the past. This is not the moment, according to us Serbian radicals, that this anger, and that dissatisfaction, would be wasted or put first now. We are aware, deeply responsible to Serbia, in front of the people, that no matter what political attitude we have so far been and what it will be from now on, that everything that is of leaveovers in Kosovo and what is imposed by their mentors should be boycotted, but this is the moment when a man should overcome all of this and the party's principles and some decisions and should make it clear and loud that the day after tomorrow is a great day of responsibility for all of us, especially those who have the right to vote. The day after tomorrow, it is decided whether a single list, a unique, united one called the Serb List, will decide and be the decision-making factor in the so-called "Serb List". The Kosovo Parliament will either succeed those who have longed us for many years, not to say a decade, press and impose their, they say, great Serbs who address their Serbian people in Albanian. That responsibility should be felt by every individual and every individual should know - no earlier attitudes, no anger, no anger, no anger, no disagreements, which were well justified, no party principles matter now. Now it's all on the sidelines. Now every responsible Serb in Kosovo and Metohija should go to the polls, vote for responsibility for everything that happens in the next period in the southern province and, as appropriate, have insight into the central government, a regime chosen by the citizens in Belgrade. We Serbian radicals know, we are deeply convinced that what we are appealing and calling has a political dimension, in the sense that many will say -- here, you see, right now they are politically changing their attitude. The position that has been fully clear so far, that we do not recognise Kosovo, it is a prevailing position in Serbia, we are deeply hoping for. Whether one of our sympathies and members will resent us, it is less important than the fact that he understands his responsibility and his obligation to leave this moment, or the day after tomorrow and to perform his civic duty. We Serbian radicals may have been a little more bile in this debate these days, a little louder, perhaps on the other hand, but it should not confuse those who need to decide the day after tomorrow not only what is going to happen in the future in the southern Serbian province, but much wider, it will also decide how to decide in both Serbia and Republika Srpska. Their determination, that unity, that willingness to be unique to vote for one list should be a guide for all those who participate and who are the most responsible for power in Serbia. Therefore, we Serbian radicals call for further debate in this House, since I am the last to speak in front of the SRS parliamentary group, to preserve this atmosphere, to set an example for our countrymen and those identified for the Republic of Serbia that there is still a responsibility and there is a moment where this responsibility, in the full sense of this word, should be expressed in the polling post. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61737	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61738	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected viewers near small screens, I didn't think I was coming forward, since there were no more open criticisms about the proposed amendments to the law. I think this last discussion that's been, this last sentence, these last few minutes is very important to re-absorbed, this unity and the need to make Sunday elections for so-called. The Kosovo assembly shows unity between the Serb people and clear support for the Serb list. I think that each of us is equally important and equally obliged to talk about it, and I think that at any moment we should take advantage of the opportunity, literally until the last second, until the polls are closed there, because that's our obligation and that's our role. I would like to thank the previous speaker and all those who spoke the previous days. Mr. Mircic, that is what is called and it is not difficult for me, Mr. Mircic, to commend even those people who are for this common matter that we are doing in Kosovo, for our Serbian people, and to thank your political party who advocates this idea. It's not hard for us to admit when things are good. We don't run away from it, and don't ever have a dilemma. Good things should never be run away. And thank you to anyone who's on this road and on this trail. I'd say a few things, I'd just like to look back briefly, because I know you know a lot about agriculture, and now how to connect these investment funds and agriculture. Someone's going to ask a question, so it's business and frogs, it's indecisive. Now I'm going to try in one particular, live case to tell you how important it is to establish new institutes and new solutions like this. Often in life, a man has a good idea, a man has a market, a business plan worked out, but he needs to start from the beginning and in the existing financial search system, you are simply defined either at his own sources of funding or at the bank, in such a world we live in. We live in a world called The conservative banks that simply for any means you want to get are looking for some collateral. When you start doing business, and it's very hard to secure collateral, or you have to secure your dad's house, your grandmother's field, your uncle's car, or I have no idea what else, no matter. It goes so far that a few years ago I had one situation, that it was just amazing, that a company comes into the food sector, but it has no bonus in Serbia, it only starts to work, and it has a developed market, it has developed potential, it has everything, but it had to collapse to give one and a half, two, in the fourth group per bonus at or worst, a much higher interest rate, much more guarantees are needed for this business bank to protect itself at the National Bank and then get into the field of investment funds. Before dawn, it can't be dawn, at least I haven't seen it, maybe someone can, but that's when they're sowing over his eyes, so today, that's how it came. It is very important to say that these things will help with the start-up of projects, with those who want to start their production, that they can attract private investors in any way, regardless of whether it's an open investment fund with a public call, an alternative investment fund, it's completely irrelevant, but that in a communication that's completely different from communication with banks, because we need growth, it's needed in small and medium-sized enterprises, it's very difficult to move from the form of agricultural land into a small enterprise, very difficult, because you lack this part. That's exactly what's being replaced, and that's why I'm saying, someone here just said it, so, not in 2004, which isn't 2007, which isn't 2008, I agree, but life, or regulations, has to follow life. That's why I say before dawn it can't dawn. I therefore believe that we are matured due to the economic growth that we had in the past month, or last month, or the same month of reference, last year was 4.4% of gross social product growth, and we are now mature to go ahead and therefore we need tools like this, without these tools, we can get to a certain limit, but we can't skip. It's not free East in Asia, growth 6%, 7%, 8%, because there are tools that give you opportunities for such growth, and it's not exclusively related to the conservative nature of banks like we do in the classical sense of words, we know in the space of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61739	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. Mr. Milorad Mircic, here's my chance to congratulate him on his state speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61740	No, don't realize that this is a replica. I don't want to rephrase it, but I expected from the executive authority's representative that all of this appeal we Serbian radicals are referring to, and to say whether or not the transport is provided for these people who need to go to KIM, because this moment, this opportunity will be announced through the media if something is secured. So, I'm sorry, Minister, everything you've been saying is deeply correct. Now, there comes a moment when we radicals can say that the Minister of Agriculture is right, some may disagree, but they didn't radicalize this moment, but about that, there's something that we emphasized and it's for the day after tomorrow, so I thought, otherwise I'm not out of any other intention but to have the right to a replica. Well, that's it, thank you for your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61741	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a chance today to see that on one issue we agree when the Republic of Serbia and its interests should be protected, so that fellow Mircici, you also had a round of applause from SNS MPs. It is true that it rarely happens in parliament that the opposition and those who chose the government of the Republic of Serbia agree on something. I would also like the former regime to be here, to hear what they think of the Serb list and to hear what they think of Radi Trajkovic, not to boycott the work when we decide the good part of the fate of our citizens in our southern province and to support the Serbian list of representatives of Serbs in the interim Kosovo institutions on the line run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. We cannot, without working with them, preserve our interests and their interests, so Serbs living in the territory of our southern province. That is why it is important, among other things, to support the Serbian list the day after tomorrow. As far as these laws are concerned, we don't have to agree on everything in the laws, I agree with what my colleague Despotovic said, the Investment Funds Act. Now we're able to see that this whole set of laws is interlinked. We had the Accounting Act, the Audit Act. One of the conditions for investment funds to enter the Republic of Serbia is that we have the same standards when audits and final accounts of our legal entities, businesses and entrepreneurs are done, so it is also possible that those who run simple accounting can also use international accounting standards. What surprises me is favoring one side, apparently some of them are our friends, some of them our enemies. I don't think Serbia should see it that way. Friends should be respected, and those who are not very friends to us, we expect them to respect us just as we respect them. It is quite true that our friends and I may make it easier to negotiate, achieve a common interest, but with those we respect and with our friends there is one thing in common, no one in Serbia will give you anything, neither Serbia nor Serbia. Whoever invests here is looking to make their profits and not get carried away. I'm coming back, and it's easier to make a deal with our friends, and it's easier for us to keep our interest with our friends, but they want us to expect that money, that part of the money they invest in Serbia, to come back through profits. This is common to us, and we expect to make some profit out of their money with the help of our resources. That's why I don't see such a desire for investment funds to be divided into friendly, not friendly, and so on. Also, there are other common things that investment funds bring, which is that we finally have competition on our financial market, because, as was mentioned, small and medium-sized enterprises are difficult to obtain from favourable loans, etc. Not to get too excited, they will hardly come up with funds coming from these large investment funds, but that is why large companies, which are operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and how to use these investment funds and their funds, as a consequence of the business banks, will have to invest in these large companies and what is more important, to adapt to the market and that the value, or the price of money, must be lower through the interest that is being charged and charged in the conclusion and realisation of the contract. Why didn't we have investment funds like this before? Well, I have to tell you that by 2012 the banking sector had a terrible impact on politics led by the governments of the Republic of Serbia during that period. If we had seen the economic crisis in 2013 and 2014, in 2014 we were in fiscal consolidation measures so that conditions were not met that we would have passed these laws or would have passed them without giving the expected results. Today, when Serbia is an investment desirable country should regulate this matter, put into law, and thus create another competition in the capital market or in the financial market, call whatever you want, and we would come up with new investments, in terms of economy, and we would speed up our growth and development, and I guess that's what we all want. Prognosis, poor reading of financial reports, etc., so let them deal with such a kind of policy, I can't even call it politics, but politics, let some others do it. When it comes to the Deposit Insurance Agency and it is unfortunately a matter that should have been regulated before 2012, even before these laws were concerned, because we had these famous 2012 and in early 2013, very unloved scenes concerning the banking sector. Two banks went into bankruptcy "Agrobanka" and "Vojvodine Development Banka". I must remind all MPs, as well as citizens who are monitoring the transfer of the National Assembly's session, that the state guarantees its laws for every savings deposit or deposit worth up to 50,000 euros. I'll be back to business later on with those two banks. The Republic of Serbia had to compensate for the damage of the Agrobanks, I think about 600m euros, and about 400m euros for the Vojvodina Development Bank. I would like to ask those about the question of building a public blow how much this amounts to a percentage relative to a gross product and how much interest we have had to pay so far since the moment we degraded the "Vojvodine Development Bank and Agrobanka" deficits. The reason why so much damage was done, to eat because it was not good regulation. He wants the banks to do business with the National Bank's permission, which is why the state guarantees the stakes. The deposit insurance agency is not only the one who manages bank bankruptcy, and it is not only the one who keeps funds from the accumulated bankruptcy, it is the one who should, under certain conditions, determines the amount of the bank that should be deposited as deposits for the payment of loans whose return is risky. Just such a situation we had, especially "Agrobank" that she had placed loans to persons who had not met any of the conditions to get these loans, who did not want to return them, who had moved that money from one account to another through the various speculations, until they had completed exotic areas, tax havens, and left it to us in this government, that those debts that were made to these banks were paid back. We now have a situation here that according to one method, one formula determines the credit rating of the bank and on the basis of this credit rating of the bank designated by the Deposit Insurance Agency, the amount that would be used to repay the amount of deposited funds of those banks that go into bankruptcy in some period. In this way, not only would we protect the citizens of Serbia, but we would protect our budget, and we would also make the banks behave more responsibly in the realisation and placement of their loans. We no longer want to repeat the situation as was the case with Agrobank. It's one big shame and shame. Brooke, because the audit report on the bank's business, was hidden, that the National Bank, with then Governor Soskic, had falsified the report, that state records were being broadcast out of value to cover the loss, which was also increasing, that the new Agrobank was being made, all with the aim of making any use of those abuses that were in Agrobanka's business, which was tolerated, and even having been caused by the National Bank and its Governor and then the regime, led by Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic, so we came up with one, minor, non-exit situations and major damages paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. It's paid for by the money of our citizens. I remember a colleague from the former regime, when the Law on the National Bank was amended here and when it was presented that it was a political law and political objective and when it was presented that because of this law to stick money, their discussions were aimed only at avoiding any political and criminal responsibility for why Agrobank went bankrupt, because you can imagine that at that time the vice governor who was responsible for overseeing the work of the financial institutions did not miss hair from the head. The man didn't even want a moral act, and that's the resignation of a member of the council to take it. And then we talk, that is, the former regime represents that it loves Serbia, and we have seen it in examples of Agrobanks and our southern provinces, the former regime Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic and all around them love only one thing, and that is their pocket. I am glad that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are increasingly recognising it and that they will never again be in a position to lead the Republic of Serbia and the money of the Serbian citizens into their private pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61743	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, Mr. Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61744	Thank you, Dr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the development of the economy and the creation of new jobs, are the priority of the management of the town of Leskovec. To this end, communication with foreign and domestic investors is committed. It is aimed at improving the conditions for their business of shipping parts of the city suitable for investment. By the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development, NAED, Leskovac is certified as a local self-government with a favourable business environment, with a percentage meeting the criteria, of as much as 92.4%. The development of the woody green zone began with the opening of a British investor's factory "Aptiv Packard" and a factory that currently employs around 1,000 workers, and is expected to employ 2,000 more, means a total of 3,000 workers. Leskovac invested 152 million dinars and Apptivu on the use of land of 124 million dinars in the green zone. The local self-government of the town of Leskovac, supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is investing largely in the development of quality and modern travel infrastructure. In the previous year on Leskovec territory, the city and 144 settlements were arranged, rehabilitated, built thirty shops and for these purposes a sum of 470 million dinars was allocated. In addition to the August arrangements at the traffic stations, sidewalk areas worth 10 million dinars were also made. As for the infrastructure of the city and the environment, significant funds are also invested in the construction of a water and sewerage network. For that purpose last year, 81 million dinars were allocated. Given the fact that local communities represent one of the initial steps by investing in all segments of development, it is invested in facilities where the advice of these units of local self-government works. Seven million dinars on the territory of the town of Leskovac have been invested in building and adapting 11 local communities. In order to maintain hygiene, it is worth mentioning, the funds are invested in the reconstruction of public and public utility machinery. Public utility "Communalac", Grdelica and Vodovod" have renewed their machinery by purchasing specialized vehicles worth 60 million dinars. Also, a fire-saving unit fleet with two new dedicated vehicles worth 415 000 euros has been renovated. Not neglecting any segment important to the lives of fellow citizens of Leskovci, it was also invested in health care. Therefore, 42.6 million dinars were invested for the rehabilitation of the building of the House of Infectious Diseases of the Woodland General Hospital, through the Office for Public Investment Management. There was a new building in the Anchiki village, which shared the local community's medical advice. The investment is worth 14.7 million dinars. Currently, works are being carried out to reconstruct the General Hospital of Leskovac, worth 15m euros, and after reconstruction it will be equipped with a 6m-euro machine, which means a total of 21m euros. The Social Labour Centre building was also reconstructed. In addition to energy recovery and work on the arrangement of the outside and interior of this facility, both ramps and lifts for disabled persons have been set up, allowing them to visit this facility for the first time since its opening. All these investments are worth 44 million dinars. The institution opened its office in Grdelica to facilitate access to social protection services for the population of this place. The education is very high on the list of priorities of the dyed local self-government. More than 80 million dinars have been invested in the temples of the knowledge of the dyed school in order to improve the conditions in which students stay. Education as a key segment of one city's development is followed by sport. The area in Leskovac is experiencing a real rebirth despite the funding of sports clubs and organisations for which 60 million dinars have been allocated. Significant sums of money are also allocated for sport infrastructure. After three decades, the elementary school "Vozd Karajordje" received a modern physical hall with 35 million dinars invested in construction. The roof at the small sports-recreative center of Dubocica was renovated with 3.2 million. There's an open field with artificial grass. The investment is worth 32 million dinars. In a recent visit to the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, the president announced that a modern stadium would be built in Leskovac to invest 20m euros, a multi-purpose hall "Partizan", built with 70m dinars and a equipped hall "Blue Pavilion" with 100,000 euros was opened. Finally, the creation of favourable conditions for investment in Leskovac contributed to British Poseidon Group deciding to open one of its shopping centres right in the town of Veternica. An investment worth about 10m euros built a shopping centre that stretches to 16,000 square meters with facilities, parking and auxiliary rooms. There are 200 Leskovchans working at that center today. Romanian company Terra Steel expands its production by opening another sixm-euro plant, while Germany's Lidl sales chain opened one of the first facilities in Serbia right in Leskovac. Leskovac sold land worth 650,000 euros to this company. In addition to foreign investors and local businessmen, they expanded their production and sales facilities. A waffle factory "Vafler" has been opened, a company called "Golden Trace" has expanded its sales chain of markets, and Aman has opened 33 buildings in Leskovac. Local investors are also interested in the wooded green zone, resulting in the Statovac company buying property worth 41.5m dinars in that part of the city and starting to build a modern distribution centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61745	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61746	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the positive effects of the financial consolidation that our Government has done with the Prime Minister at the time, and the current President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, today feel all the citizens of our country. In the last 30 years, no new factory has been opened in Loznica and Podrinj, but existing plants have been destroyed and destroyed. For the first time in the history of the city, two major investors are coming and a new future is being built, thanks to the great engagement of our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who brought two major world companies, "Mint" and "Adient". Within two months, there was a stone foundation for building two factories, 2 April for ‘Mint’, and 31 May for ‘Adient’. They are essential for the development and survival of the Loznica and the Adriatic and the entire Podrinj, because they will provide jobs for young people and thus keep them on their hearths. "Mint Automotive" is a large Chinese company that will invest 100m euros in a new factory and employ a thousand workers. This company is one of the world leaders in the area of design, production and sales of both structural and decorative car parts. In addition, the company is also interested in investing in hotel areas. Adient is an American company for the production of changing clothes and car seats. The construction of the factory is under way and already employs 600 workers. After the construction of the factory, a total of 1,500 workers should be paid. The local self-government of the city of Loznica has provided all the necessary infrastructure for both of these investors. When household business is done, then funds are found at both republican and local level. That's how the government is responsible, that's what our president does, and that's what our mayor Vidoje Petrovic does. Also in Krupanj, more than four years ago, thanks to our president, it began with the work of a Turkish djinn company that employs about 160 workers. A similar factory is also planned in Mali Zvornik, only higher capacity. The preparatory work for this factory is under way, and will employ 400 workers over the next two years. The construction of a fast traffic station Loznica-Sabac-Ruma is of paramount importance to our region. This will allow not only faster traffic communication of Podrinj with other parts of our country, but also incentives for new investors to invest in the city of Loznica and the environment. I am pleased to announce that the works will begin in November of this year, as well as that an additional 500 million dinars have been allocated to this project with a positive budget rebalance for 2019. The investment of the Republic in the town of Loznica is also reflected in the local road infrastructure such as the reconstruction of St. Sava Street, Železnička, as well as the entrance to Banja Koviljač from the bypass road, where the financing was 60% from the city budget and 40% from the Republic's budget. Also, the restoration of the slide on the Valjev road, reconstruction and upgrade of the children's "Bambi" facility and reconstruction of the cursalon in Banja Koviljača. In order to improve energy infrastructure, two trafostations are built in the new village of Lagator and others in the industrial zone, and the trafostation in Lesnica has been reconstructed, two power lines are being moved into the industrial zone. As far as planned investments are concerned, a very important project for the town of Loznica is a wastewater processing facility, funded by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Also, a final stage is under way to prepare for a new football stadium according to UEFA standards. The project documentation is funded by the UNDP and the construction of the Public Investment Management Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As a health care worker, I am very happy to improve the conditions for the treatment of our fellow citizens in a local hospital. Three departments are being reconstructed: internal, breast and psychiatric. Construction of a new boiler room in the hospital and reconstruction of the surgical and gynaecological block of 9,200 m2. All of this, with the announced increase in salaries in health care and all other public sectors, will certainly affect the quality of health services to all our patients, as well as the reduction of medical staff drains. Indeed, the Loznicans have every reason to be grateful to both our government and our resolute ministries and local self-government, and most of all to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whose merit is all this and initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61747	Thank you. The word is Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61748	Thank you. Dear Minister Nedimovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today another set of very important proposals for the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, open investment funds with a public offering and alternative investment funds. The draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act aims to protect the deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of the bank and to preserve the stability of the financial system. The most important newspaper in the law is that future banks pay a premium based on risk levels. Banks in Serbia that are more prone to risky business will pay a premium at a higher rate than banks with a lower risk factor. Proposed amendments and additions to the law, the government seeks to further comply with international practice and standards, as well as EU legal assets under the conditions of financial system stability. As for the Investment Funds Act, they should provide a higher level of security to both potential investors from abroad and domestic potential investors. These laws harmonise the domestic legal framework with EU rules under Chapter 9 - financial services, i.e. provide opportunities for access to additional sources of funding for the further development of all economic operators. Dear fellow MPs, all these three draft laws aim to create real assumptions for an even greater GDP growth by roofing the budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. In 2018, Serbia had a realistic GDP growth of 4.4%, which was nominally higher by 6.6% than in 2017. Serbia is expected to reach the planned real GDP growth of 3.5% in 2019. In the coming years, GDP growth is expected to be 5% and more on a real and sustainable basis. Dear citizens, we are in a position to bring a positive budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 after five years for the first time because of the surplus, not because of the lack of income in the state register. In the first eight months of this year, the budget surplus was 46.6 million dinars. This enabled the government to propose to the Assembly a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. The adoption of the law allows for an increase in the standard of living of our citizens, and greater investment in capital infrastructure investment is made possible. In this way, in addition to increasing citizens' standards, the government also creates conditions for job creation and accelerated GDP growth. What is particularly taken into account is youth unemployment, as 10.3% of the total unemployment, youth unemployment remains relatively high 24.4%. As a result, our government has prepared specific measures to encourage youth employment, which this Assembly will adopt by the end of the year. The budget surplus achieved through budget rebalancing will be allocated to raise wages, assistance to pensioners, assistance to debtors for loans in Swiss francs and capital infrastructure investments. When it comes to pay increases, thanks to the domestic and economic attitude towards money, in addition to the increase in the minimum labour price, the government has also provided conditions for increasing wages and pensions. From November 1st this year, wages in the public sector are projected to increase from 8% to 15%. The highest wage increase is foreseen for nurses and technicians, of 15%. Doctors and employees of science and culture institutions will receive a 10% increase. Educational workers, judges, prosecutors, court employees and prosecutors, social security workers, members of the security services will receive a 9% salary increase. Employees of the state administration, police, customs and tax administration will receive an 8% salary increase. The average salary in Serbia will reach 500 euros by December. When it comes to helping pensioners, they will receive one-off aid of 5,000 dinars in early December, and from 1 January 2020, pensions will be increased by Swiss model between 5.1 and 5.5%. For these purposes, budget rebalancing is foreseen to allocate about 8.5 billion dinars. When it comes to helping debtors with loans in Swiss francs, the government did not want to ignore the problems of the citizens that the former government has encouraged to take on these loans. The budget's rebalance envisions allocations for the French debtors and so far about 90% of the debtors, a total of 15,734 have converted loans into euro. When it comes to capital infrastructure investments, highways will be a priority. Excess money in the budget will also be used to build highways, with a maximum of 14 billion dinars for the Moravia Corridor, which will combine Corridors 10 and 11. The plan is also to rebuild 5,000km of local roads. About 900m euros have been allocated for these purposes. The plan is to build a water and sewerage network in all local self-governments where necessary. For these purposes, local self-government has been defined about 2.5 billion euros. All of these are results that one can love or not, but we can't help but admit that some of the most important things change daily for the better, and that, above all, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the NBS did a great job in the interests of all Serbian citizens. In 2013, public debt was 79% of GDP, and in 2019 public debt was less than 51% of GDP, with GDP still growing, which is a positive growth rate, and this is called economic development. Dear citizens, I would like to remind you once again, thanks to investments, fiscal and monetary policy, the responsible work of the entire government and President Aleksandr Vukic, Serbia's economic growth in the third quarter was 4%, guaranteeing that 3.5% will come at the end of the year, and three years in a row with the surplus of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As all these draft laws are highly developmental, the SNS parliamentary club will vote for all these proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61749	Thank you. Now the word is Andrian Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61750	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, is today ahead of us, among other things, and a draft law on open investment funds. In fact, investment funds are collective investment institutions, which collect money and invest different types of assets, in line with investment policy. I would like to commend today's proposal for this law, whose basic activity is to organise and manage open-end investment funds with a public offering, for the reason that this bill is carefully analysed in terms of compliance with international standards and directives and the needs of practices. It is important to note that, with the working group, it has given its opinion and support, except for the Ministry of Finance, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Business, the National Bank of Serbia, the Securities Commission, the Tax Administration, the Belgrade Stock Exchange, the Business Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Banks of Serbia, foreign consultants, the Council of Foreign Investors and USAID organisations. The proposed provisions also concern greater investor protection, which will further stimulate the creation of new investment fund management companies, which will certainly encourage market competition. With this strict law, we are in fact restoring investor confidence in the domestic capital market, due to greater transparency in the business of management companies and thus further market development. Investments in the investment fund allow easy access to the capital market, and the contribution that can be made by investing is usually higher than the contribution that would result in some conventional form of savings. This law contains clear and concrete contributions, as is expected from the founders of investment fund management companies, according to their ability and strength, and the most important thing is respect for the rules laid down by this law. All of the proposed legislations mentioned in the last few days are related to improving and managing finances. Thanks to the budget rebalancing that we are doing exclusively thanks to the surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is actually proof that our president is writing an important chapter, both in previous years and in terms of the future of our people. Our Serbia wakes up quickly and develops. We have a significant recovery in the processing industry, the growth of private consumption, as an indicator of the increase in living standards, trade traffic, and, at the same time, great growth in tourism transport. Then, growth in the construction sector, new investments, an increase in traffic services, intensive private sector financing, natural growth combined with a favourable investment environment, newly opened and expanded production capacities, leading to growth in external trade. I would like to say that Serbia's economy continues to improve and financial improvement thanks to financial balance, within a very short period, and in addition to this is established and preserved financial stability, a reduction in public debt, a halved unemployment and low and stable inflation. Serbia today is not an overindebted country, which is the conclusion of both the IMF and the World Bank. Our patriotic interest, our love for Serbia and the interest of our people ahead of us is an indication that we have managed to establish a stable and peaceful order, which was the main objective of the SNS, headed by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. It is predicted that Serbia will be the country with the best economic position in the Western Balkans at the beginning of next year, and based on its results. Given the positive fiscal results, the government has abolished pension cuts and there has been a significant increase in pensions, as promised. We also have an increase in salaries in the fields of health, education, culture and employees of state institutions. Thanks to a stable economic situation, Serbia has attracted 2.3 billion euros of foreign direct investment, the unemployment rate is 10.3%, we are famous for the software output and we have improved and built highways, bridges, factories, hospitals, schools and we have indicators to move forward, because it has never been built and worked in our Serbia again. I will remind respected citizens that during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and the then DS, headed by Dragan Gilas, the government was the most in charge and the public debt was then 24.8 billion euros. Economists then found that then Prime Minister Cvetkovic and then mayor, Mr Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, owed citizens 4.7 million a day. A tragic year 2008 instead of a improvement for our citizens has brought about the beginning of a public debt leap. At that time, populist measures were applied to buy votes, as there was an extraordinary increase in pensions, and there was a lot of leniency in public enterprises that paid huge salaries to employees, while as a state we fell into debts that then turned the democratic regime into a public debt of Serbia. In 2009, the rate of economic growth was almost gone. So, there was a deterioration in the economy, and the expenditure on the budget remained exactly the same, and that difference was caused by the great borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. I will also remind you that the interest rates related to this borrowing were extremely high, up to 7.5%. The unemployment rate during the DS rule was 25.9%. The city government headed with Mr. Gilas also took credit for firing extra workers, as they led Serbia to bankruptcy due to heavy overindebtedness, and for the sake of vote buying. The rationalisation of such measures was not done in accordance with the law. The criteria for determining technological surpluses were not respected, so the dismissed workers, based on legitimate court rulings, had to be deserved to return to work. So their failed rationalisation, the illegal dismissal of people and the irregular distribution of finance led the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to destruction. There are a number of examples of how our Serbia was destroyed, and to the detriment of all of us. We had to face very difficult and unpopulistic reforms, because Serbia was brought literally to the brink of bankruptcy and destruction. But today, so it's important to say, and over the years, we don't have that kind of finance problem anymore. Our president, Mr. Alexander Vucic, has no 500 million as Mr. Gilas, but he has the greatest wealth, which is the excellent rating and development of our country and the most important thing that he has the support and trust of our citizens, thanks exclusively to the works that we all see, not to empty promises. With increased joint efforts, we, along with our people, are expanding and developing an existing programme and everything we have promised. We treated our Serbia's wounds because we found it that way, but our little country was able to prosper and develop. We are aware that time is of the utmost importance and we have faced seriously the challenge that is still ahead of us. Our president is determined to honor his promises, because he knows what they mean and what it could mean in the future. As a People's MP, I must say that I am proud of Serbia growing in peace, security and security. In our Serbia, I want our children to grow up, to continue to build Serbia's future with our citizens and our children. Since the elections are coming on October 6th, or Sunday, in our Kosovo and Metohija, let every country know, whether it wants us well, that we will bear every burden, face every difficulty, to preserve and defend the peace and stability of the Serbian people, in order to ensure the survival and survival of the Serb people in KIM. You are not alone, you are part of our common Serbia and this way I call, of course, all of our Serbs from KIM and displaced persons with the right to vote to come out and support our Serb list. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61751	Thank you, colleague Avramov. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go, colleague Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61752	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Milicevic, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would use the opportunity by the Rules of Procedure to also, on behalf of the SDPS parliamentary group, my colleagues and previous speakers in the initiative and the appeal that our citizens, primarily Serbs in KIM, and all those who are loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think mostly of Roma, Askalia, Egyptians and all those loyal, Albanians, use the 6th October in such a way that everyone will vote in favour of the Republic of Serbia, which will all vote with the Serb list in the elections held on 6 October at KIM. Our people in KIM are expecting, as it has been, unfortunately, and for the past 20 years, a lot of challenges in the coming period. I am pleased, frankly, by this assembly that we have all shown in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I look forward to this assembly when it comes to key national issues, such as the maintenance and preservation of Republika Srpska and such as the uncompromising and unfettered struggle of our people to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty at KIM. What is very important to point out is the great diplomatic offensive of President Alexander Vukic, who has been implementing in previous years. It has yielded in many cases fruit. Many countries across the globe, and there is evidence that a fierce struggle can lead to a great result, that they have either changed their attitude when KIM's independence is unilaterally declared, and that some are seriously considering it. This means that fighting for your country, that means that patriotism, that means that fighting for your territory and your people, can never be enough, and that's what we're going to do, and of course, we're going to follow our president 24 hours a day and in all these challenges and what awaits us, when it comes to KIM. We will invest there, invest in the economy, invest in trade, invest in infrastructure, and, of course, we will all fight here in Parliament and the President of the Republic of Serbia and everyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, hopefully all MPs in our KIM Assembly. Long live Serbia! Long live Kosovo and Metohija! Long live the Serbian people at KIM!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61753	I thank you, colleague Marinkovic, but since you have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to ask you – do you want to make the National Assembly’s vote on the alleged injury in the day of the vote? Thank you. No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from Desanka Repac. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61754	Thank you. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates, dear fellow MPs and all citizens of Serbia. Today we are discussing a third set of economic laws. In order for Serbia to grow and develop, investment is necessary. Investment funds are one of the key forms of adaptation, both domestic and foreign capital. The Republic of Serbia is the leader in this part of Europe in attracting foreign capital. The advanced development of the Republic of Serbia's economy is both unimaginable without the development of society, primarily without the development of education and health. According to the definition of the Investment Funds Act, investment funds are collective investment institutions where money is collected and invested in different assets with the aim of achieving income and reducing risk exposure, and according to free interpretation, investment funds are an alternative between savings in banks and investment, i.e. active savings or passive investment. The reasons for the adoption of this investment fund law are numerous, I will only point out the two most important. The first is the improvement and development of the capital market, resulting in the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy and the second as a process of joining the Republic of Serbia. The first law came into force in 2006. At that time, a basis was created for the establishment and functioning of investment funds as a new form of capital market investor in the Republic of Serbia. The law was changed due to the conditions of the global financial crisis, for the first time in 2011, the last time in 2014, when it was synchronised to termologically and more specifically in accordance with European regulations, which is good for foreign investors. The SNS parliamentary group welcomes, supports and will vote in favour of all laws that have economically strengthened and strengthen the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, all these laws are well-founded, professionally done, elaborated. They raise, develop, transfer new technologies, information and standards. The economic strength of the Republic of Serbia with GDP is 4.4%, unemployment 10.3%, the surplus in Serbia's budget has raised a strong level of health in the Republic of Serbia. In 2019, on 17 September, Minister of Health Mr. Zlatibor Loncar met at the World Health Organization headquarters in Copenhagen with the newly elected director, Dr. House Kluge. At that time, Dr. Kluge offered Minister Loncara, or the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, to have his representative in the board of directors of the organisation. This is the first time Serbia and our health system have been given a position in the World Health Organization and yet another confirmation of the results our country has achieved in the last year in the field of reform. Thanks to a vision the government has in terms of investing in health care, Serbian healthcare is in 18th place from 35 countries in Europe. We are ahead of 14 EU countries. Serbia's health care is highly invested. We are the best in the region in 2018. It's very much invested in equipment, especially for air therapy, for the introduction of an electronic recipe, reducing the use of antibiotics, investing in equipment, in a medical chamber, in the construction of clinical centres that are numbered many times, I won't repeat them, in a thousand sanitary vehicles. We saved 64 lives from the new year to today, by transplanting. The first electronic recipe was 63 million. More money for rare diseases has been since the SNS, since 2012. For these rare diseases, 130 million were allocated, and today the state stands out 20 times more. Onkology 2, an "ix" and a "gamma" knife were purchased. The reconstruction of KCS, gets a new Emergency Centre, 20 operating rooms and 500 sick rooms. In 2018, abroad were sent to treat children who paid 300 million dinars. It went through the budget fund. For the past four years, in the Republic of Serbia, the budget fund has sent 200 children and paid 23m euros for their treatment. Since 2012, when the SNS came to power, the Serbian government has given 8,000 specialisations, as democratic governments have suspended the granting of specialization, which was a negative trend in health care. In 2018, 160 of the best doctors received the job, 4,000 were employed by healthcare professionals and 1,509 specializations only last year. In the end, I must express great satisfaction that the government, the Ministry of Health, Finance, separate the salary increases for nurses, doctors, general health care staff. This is great news for the state that she came into a situation so she could raise her wages. The increases are from what was earned and without borrowing unfavourable loans. This is very important, it shows how the country is led by President Aleksandar Vukic, seventh President of the Republic of Serbia, our happiness. Someone had to take advantage of it, make a leap over the break-in, make a run for the future, and give everything for the future of this country, beautiful and beautiful. Many thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government for such a Serbia, which is one of the poor countries, which was declared bankrupt before bankruptcy, as the country that has the most direct foreign investment and the number of inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61755	Thank you, colleague Repac. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61756	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, may seem to be coming out of the topic today's call by my fellow Members of Parliament that all citizens who are from the KIM territory, truly extremely responsible for this weekend's instructions, if they do not live in KIM territory, in polling stations, are being distracted, or perhaps coming out of today's topic, and I will tell you that there is a tight connection. It is precisely because we are talking about opening new economic opportunities for Serbia to go through a 7% growth, how there are opportunities, how the World Bank has designed, precisely by having one serious, responsible policy and Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the real issue of resolving the relations between Belgrade and Pristina. I purposely speak to Belgrade and Pristina, in fact, one of the times Serbia has been going since 2012, when it took responsibility for the country's leadership. If I were to say that in 2013, all EU Member States, and even those countries of the great powers of the East and the West, always said first that economic growth and development and our overall economic situation of the country depended on how we stand in relation to the situation of the KIM, in relation to the negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. Then it is quite clear why today, first of all, we have these economic results and why we are able to have investments and in municipalities in KIM territory. That is why it is important that the responsibility of all citizens, who have the opportunity to vote in the October 6th elections, really take advantage of that right and truly understand that responsibility as an imperative of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because a large number of citizens from the KIM territory live outside the KIM territory, and it is very important that they simply go to polling stations. It is somewhere, I think, an invitation from my colleagues, because it is not only a call from the Republic of Serbia, it is an invitation for our future generations, because as long as there are Serbs in KIM territory, then we can talk about that as a state, we can be in the territory of the entire territory of KIM and that we simply have the preservation of territorial integrity as the Republic of Serbia. Today's set of laws is in fact the third stage of the entire session where the focus is on economics and finance, but when you look at the KIM Office budget, when you look at the size of the investments that the Republic of Serbia has given to these municipalities where the presidents are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and KIM, then you realize how important it is to invest in buildings, in people, in new jobs and in these municipalities. Today's topic is the Investment Funds Act, meaning an open fund with a public offering, then alternative funds, as well as a part relating to the Deposit Insurance Act. What is important to say is that for the first time now, we are fundamentally changing the way the capital market is going to function. This opens up many opportunities to boost the economy. Serbia must move to a high growth economy, we continue to create new business opportunities, not only for foreign investors, but also for domestic investors. This essentially, especially when it comes to open funds, we're talking about buying these investment units can be in dinars and in foreign exchanges, and we're talking about simply these units being a transferable financial instrument with which we have the possibility of a special form of roof investment funds that can pool individual investment funds, which is very important because of this availability of financial resources through these funds. It is important to say that such a model can be one of the ways for both private and public sectors as well as for the public sector, while the law that speaks of alternative funds is exclusively where we give great support to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to natural persons, when it comes to the private sector, which is essentially the possibility that this capital market, i.e. securities from value, works in a completely different way than so far. What is important, we said that Chapter nine - financial services, in negotiations with the EU, gives us the opportunity to comply with the laws, to be recognizable for investment, not only for EU member states, but for all those who have very strong economies, who recognize financial services in this way, and then, of course, through that kind of opportunity, they will sooner come here and invest, but for some countries that are in our neighbourhood, which simply do not have this kind of opportunity. Therefore, the Republic of Serbia today has the possibility that, with the adoption of such laws in the Serbian Parliament, it is indeed a new investment cycle in the face of new foreign and domestic investments, in a completely modern, new way, and thus essentially we, not only have a complete justification for this budget rebalancing, which is already the fourth year in surplus, but we have the possibility that in the future we really have these high growth rates that we are talking about and we go shoulder-to-head with the most developed economies. That path simply must have its basics, and these are the very laws, and, I hope, Mr. Minister, that you came from a meeting with the IMF with good news, that the IMF simply supports this kind of budget rebalance and these results that Serbia has achieved so far. Of course, in the voting day, for this set of laws relating to both investment funds and the Deposit Insurance Act, we will support all Members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61757	The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61758	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, financial markets as places where entities that have excess financial resources and economic operators who lack financial resources connect two significant macroeconomic categories of savings and investments. This is where the offer and demand meet, and as such, the financial markets are the most significant part of the country's overall economic and financial system. The financial markets have great importance for the development of production and for the increase of social product. Investment funds are the institutions of collective investment of those with surplus assets, and in order to obtain profit or profit, on the other hand, that capital or assets of the fund is available to those who, at a certain point, need a financial instrument for further activities. All of this together makes up the financial system, and its development just depends on the development of its elements. In 2012, when the SNS took responsibility for Serbia and Serbia's economy, indicators and parameters of the Serbian economy were so bad that there was no chance of saving itself. This led to a decision to move towards difficult reforms and fiscal consolidation measures. Many measures had to be taken to achieve today’s stability. Only inflation at that time was 11%, today inflation is between 1.5% and 2%, and we have a stable dinar course in continuity. These days we're doing budget rebalances because of a surplus of 46.6 billion dinars. This surplus money in the budget is focused on public and investment spending, i.e. on salary increases, on pensioners' payments, on the construction of the Pojate-Preljina road, as well as on defence investments. A very attractive business environment has been created in Serbia, and we are leaders in attracting foreign direct investment. What did those investments bring? They've brought jobs, unemployment has fallen drastically, it's never really been lower and it's only 10%, the highest level of employment has been achieved in two of the most sensitive categories, which are young and women. When we talk about young people, the biggest growth in exports is recorded by the IT sector, which is higher by as much as 30%, these are the young minds of Serbia that remain in their country and live here from their knowledge and work. The growth of total exports is yet to come. The fact that imports are slightly larger in the first half of the year is due to new investments. The structure of imports shows that imports are to the greatest extent of the machinery, equipment and raw materials needed for the production cycle which will, of course, result in increased exports. These investment funds can be used for new business ventures, thereby further affecting growth and development. When we talk about Sunday's elections in Kosovo and Metohija, of course, absolute support for the Serb list and for my part. Every sincere patriot knows that it is very important for the Serb list to win 10 seats and I call on all Serbs to have a single confidence and voice for the Serb list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61759	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61760	Thank you, Chairman. It's not bad, I would say, that it's also advisable to remind ourselves of the facts of what we inherited from the previous regime, and where we are today and what successes we have achieved. Not bad, first because of those who baselessly criticize every move by Alexander Vukic, SNS and these governments and deny our results as these yellow thieves could not even dream in their most beautiful dreams. We did not achieve the results by talking, but by hard work, effort, denial, and above all by working day and day, just as the President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic taught us by personal example and how he continues to teach us daily. So, as Minister Sinisha Mali has said several times these days, we have inherited by all the measurable economic parameters of the state almost in front of bankruptcy, with a broken economy, a destroyed economy, destroyed, shut down enterprises, a huge number of fired workers, completely derelict infrastructure, an unspective environment that all potential investors have fled from, while the pockets of yellow tycoons and thieves have been full of money. As Minister Sinisha Mali said, let me quote: “We are proud because in a short time we managed to break out of the claws of irresponsible and thieving treatment of public finances. Our results obviously bother them, because we managed to get out of that pietarian mess. Now instead of an empty register, we have a third year in a row of surpluses in the budget that we will use to increase wages and pensions and capital investments, and they could only dream about it. In fact, it is questionable whether they dreamed of it at all, given what they left behind." Therefore, to make it perfectly clear, I stress – for the third year in a row we have surplus in the budget, surplus, not deficit. It is clear to every Serbian host that we have a profit, that we have a gain, not a loss. Only those who are still gathered around the yellow tycoon, Dragan Gilas, are not clear, or do not want to see it. I feel sorry for them, too, because they're sorry too. So we're not in charge of new loans, like they used to do, usually before the elections, to raise pensions and buy pensioners' votes, but we have surpluses in the budget, which we have earned fairly. This surplus, that profit, we now share with the budget rebalance for salary increases, pension increases and capital investments. The difference between them and us is huge, so much for it. These days, I was particularly pleased to hear that Google has made it possible to use its Google Merchant Account trading platform on Google Play Store. Google shops for Serbia's area, opening the door for IT firms from our country so that they can offer and charge their products and services worldwide for mobile telephony, transmission platforms and ICT industries. The fact that we have to be proud is that the ICT sector year by year records the highest growth in exports compared to all branches of the economy. ICT exports of products are expected to reach 1.5 billion euros in 2019. This was certainly contributed by specific incentives to invest in the development of intellectual property, by taxing profit from intellectual property revenues at a tax rate of 3%, instead of standard 15%. These measures and incentives that have been in place since 1 January of this year result in Serbia becoming one of the most competitive countries in the area without dilemma. By passing these laws that we are discussing today, we will further speed up the increase in investment in Serbia's most profitable and fastest growing export performance, such as the ICT sector, thereby increasing exports of goods and services, which is the best way of overall economic growth and raising social standards to a higher level, which will be felt by all layers of society and population. Of course, as one of the previous speakers said, I love both I and the Ayvar and the Kajmak and the beads and the iron sausage and wine and brandy and all the healthy Serbian food and I'm proud of it. I look forward to the fact that the adoption of these laws opens up an additional opportunity for investors to start investing, let's say, both in the production and transport of our healthy food and drink, if they see a chance, and that will certainly be possible through open or alternative investment funds. I believe that the proposed laws, the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Alternative Investment Funds Act, are acceptable and I suggest we adopt them. This will ensure more intensive trade, as well as providing greater security to foreign investors, while the domestic market will be more attractive to foreign investment. We will provide conditions that can attract more market participants, but we will also provide better access to additional, alternative sources of funding for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, in terms of further harmonisation of domestic regulations with EU rules, we will meet the obligations under negotiating Chapter 9, which concerns financial services. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the proposed amendments and additions, we introduce an approach that is fairer and more dominant in international practice and regulation. This is possible today, and it was not possible to work harder, because only now that we have created a stable financial system can we further align our deposit insurance system with international practice and standards, but also with EU legal assets. I believe that the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act is also acceptable and I suggest we adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61761	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61762	Thank you, your chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today talking about draft laws that practically follow the budget, namely the budget rebalance we discussed last week. The Open Investment Funds Act was passed as early as 2006 and really multiple amendments and additions to the law were made. Now is clearly the time to adopt a new law that will cover all these provisions and legislation even closer to the EU-based norms. It is a similar situation with the Alternative Investment Funds Act, Chapter 9. - financial services are very important for our negotiating position and by adopting these proposals we will draw closer to the EU countries. One of the solutions made by this proposal is to exempt from capital gain taxes in order to accelerate the capital market and attract as much financial resources as possible. Measures are being introduced to contribute to a more competitive and better business. This will ensure greater GDP, new employment and higher wages. Alternative funds invest in young people. They invest in entrepreneurs, in the development of new ideas in terms of their funding in the right way, and there are some tax reliefs that are envisaged, so that in fact every potential will be used, and that they continue without problems to develop. In this way, the government's measure will provide support to both innovative activities and IT industries where more and more young people work and in which they see their future, and there is also the future and growth of our economy. So it's about creating new business opportunities and maintaining financial stability. It is aimed at attracting more market participants and foreign investors, but also at ensuring stability for the domestic market, this will also contribute to enabling alternative investment models. Important institutions and state bodies as we have heard from the Minister himself, as well as market participants and foreign investors' councils have worked on these draft laws that are before us today in the principle debate. I doubt that the proposed legislative solutions will ultimately prove to be good and that they will indeed be a driving force for the development of the capital market for the growth of our economy and thus for GDP growth. We still have to discuss these proposals in detail, but here's practically at the end of this principle debate I want to say that you will have support from SNS MPs and we will vote for them in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61763	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61764	Dear Chairman Arsic, Minister Mali and his associates, today I will talk about the Alternative Investment Funds Act, i.e. by helping small and medium-sized enterprises who, according to some estimates, do not allow about a billion euros in capital. Soon, apart from bank loans, these companies and additional sources of financing will also be available. In fact, the domestic corporate private capital of natural persons will be able to invest in them through the funds of corporate capital. The law opens the possibility of registering corporate capital funds in Serbia. The Ministry of Finance, which made up this regulation with the Charter Commission, stresses that these are intended for professional institutional investors, and will also be able to invest semi-professional investors who once invest 50,000 euros and are estimated to have enough knowledge and experience. Provisions concerning small investors of public offerings and cross-border performance of the management company for alternative investment funds will have a delayed fact. The requirements and transparency in realisation will include the obligation to report persons managing alternative funds to investors, which includes a clear description of the investment policy of risk management, cost and investment-related fees. The newspaper in this law will be able to establish an alternative investment fund that has a legal personality with internal management that will not have to have a management company. Another reason for the adoption of this law lies in the need for micro and medium-sized enterprises to be able to access additional sources of funding for the further development of their business. The draft law is broadly in line with EU directives relating to the management of alternative investment funds. Thanks to the conduct of the Serbian government's responsible policy, and today the Minister of Small, public finances, the empty cash register in 2012 is now loaded, and the possibility of solving the decades-long problems that we inherited in 2012. The results mentioned these days are real, and to boast we have and what, GDP was 4.4% in July, unemployment 10.3%, and foreign direct investment 3.5 billion euros in 2018. Public debt is 51.9% of GDP, and we inherited over 70%. A fiscal council called yesterday, namely Mr. Pavle Petrovic, said some 45 billion dinars are expected in the budget next year. His recommendations for the realisation of these couples would not now comment, but given that the Fiscal Council often criticises government decisions, I noticed that he still recognises the results that have been achieved. All that is done today, and the results are seen, and all this thanks to the arrival of Alexander Vukic in 2014 as prime minister. His decision and vision set out with difficult measures, fiscal consolidation measures arranged for our public finances, and today we create new strategies for the development of the capital market as well as for the development of the private and public sector in Serbia in the coming years. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61765	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olivera Ognjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61766	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, proposed amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act aim to improve the deposit insurance system in Serbia, with the paper just introducing the possibility of an insurance premium based on an assessment of the levels of risk taken by banks in their business, while making as much profit as possible. The basis for calculating the premium itself is also adapted to EU standards so far in accordance with the practice of ensuring the premium at the level of guaranteed deposits. Of course, the government adopted this bill for the purpose of protecting deposits of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, natural persons and entrepreneurs in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of the bank, and in order to preserve the stability of the financial system. Only in conditions of financial stability do citizens trust the banking system and achieve access to financial services, and by gaining confidence in the banking system, there is an increase in the savings of the population, an increase in credit activity of banks and investment activities of businesses, and subsequently that the acceleration of economic growth and the reduction of the unemployment rate. The constant growth of secured deposits over the past few years has confirmed the stability of the banking system, and in particular citizens' confidence in the deposit insurance system. The introduction of a modern system and the introduction of a secure deposit to 50,000 euros have established financial security that guarantees citizens that they will not run out of money in the event of the bank's closure. Insurance pays only banks, not depositors. All banks are required to secure deposits with the Deposit Insurance Agency and to pay the insurance premium at the prescribed rate, of course in order to protect deposits, secured categories of depositors and preserve financial stability. It took a long time to regain citizens' trust, as "Beobank", "Investbanka", "Yugobanka", and "Belgrade Banka", once a giant in the domestic banking system were shut down. They were shut down even though they had huge capital, they still exist on paper, and most of the property has been scattered over the past decade. The shutting down of leading banks in early 2002, under the command of the yellow government, had to be carried out to open a space for foreign banks, regardless of the price paid. Only "Belgrade Bank" sought around 1.14 billion euros at the time of the bankruptcy. The lock was placed on property in the country and abroad. At the time, authorities brought down banks with huge capital and reputation in the world. They've been declared inequitable. Since the sale of assets, old foreign savings have been settled, as have some creditors, and banks themselves have found it difficult to come to their claims, as the largest debtors of large domestic companies in the privatisation process are somewhere in the world. However, with great effort, the banking system in Serbia has been recovering in the past few years, and the best business results have been recorded in 2018. Citizens have regained trust in banks, and all thanks to stable finances. Today we have a series of incentive measures to develop entrepreneurship and self-employment because it is one of the primary objectives of the Serbian government, which is exactly support for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. Today we are proud of the fact that we get confirmations from the world financial institutions about the proper economic policy that guarantees stability and business security. Serbia is recognised as an attractive country for investors who want to invest their capital. We are at the head of the ranking list by the number of foreign investments for 2019. Serbia is moving forward today. In the first six months of this year alone, we have an inflow of 2.3 billion euros, direct foreign investment, which is why we fight for every new investor, and as a result we have a new investment plan, we improve education, we invest in health, infrastructure, and most importantly, we reduce unemployment by opening new jobs, we increase wages and pensions, and we raise the standard of life of Serbian citizens. Citizens see Serbia changing, recognising work and showing it with their trust that they gave us at the most difficult times when Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy. Over the past few years, it has been proven that the policy direction led by President Vukic is correct. I deeply believe that this is the only time for the Serbian economy to fully recover and allow our children a beautiful and secure future in Serbia. In the end, I would like to invite our citizens of Serbs to the KiM, to go to the elections on 6 October and support the Serbian list, because it is also a voice for our survival, for our banners, prayers and monasteries on KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61767	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61768	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about investment, it should be pointed out that foreign direct investment reached 2.3 billion euros in the first seven months of this year, which is 43% more than in the same period last year. And, if I'm not mistaken, it was you ministers who presented this information, and that last year we attracted 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which is again more than in all the countries of the region. The results were also confirmed by the world's prominent Financial Times newspaper, which for the second time declared Serbia leader in attracting foreign direct investment. They admit that we attract almost 12 times as much foreign direct investment as other economies, say, similar sizes. All international financial institutions confirm that we have excellent results when it comes to the state of public finances and when it comes to the overall, let me say, economic picture of Serbia. All this says that we have regained confidence in our country, but primarily thanks to the reform measures and reform policies of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our country's investment rating will lead to even more investment, even higher employment, and thus higher economic growth, thus increasing living standards. And that's why we're in a situation today that we can raise salaries in the public sector, that we can also help pensioners, that from next year we can increase pensions, that we can continue investing in infrastructure, that we can build highways, that we can rebuild so far road infrastructure, railway infrastructure, build bridges, hospitals, kindergartens, schools and everything else. But what I wanted to say to you, Minister, is that the more and the better you do, the better the results of the government are, the more you will be the subject of criticism, the more accused you will be, attacked by those who do not think well of Serbia or the Serbian people. I also think of some political parties, but also of some media that are only on a daily basis dealing with attacks against Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Every day they will invent new accusations, construct new affairs, and all in order to discredit anyone who follows Alexander Vukic's policies. As long as they attack us, know you're doing a good job for Serbia. You have an example, for example, of last week's Nin, they devoted the whole number to that imaginary affair against Nebojsa Stefanovic. Look, not one or two texts, they've devoted the whole number to this affair. Not necessarily NIN, you can take "Today" any edition, therefore, every day, every text is directed exclusively and directly towards the attack on Alexander Vukic and the officials of the Serbian-SNS government, as well as "N1" and some other TVs, which from morning until night only, are exclusively placed by false accusations and some constructed affairs. Their policy has also literally turned into a desire and a expectation when something bad will happen in Serbia, when some rain, a storm, an elemental disaster, so that they can take it and look forward to it and make fun of it afterwards on their media and social networks. Most people like it when a pipe breaks or a similar communal problem occurs in Belgrade. Then they are the happiest, then they go mad, simply out of joy. Imagine, a pipe breaks in a two-million-dollar city, pulla tube, who knows how many decades old and then days later there's joy and euphoria in their social media. That's how when you experience politics the way that's worse for Serbia, the better for us. It's just that in practice it's different. It's in practice -- the better Serbia, the worse it is for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61769	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61770	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have heard today that some are still asking why this law on alternative and investment funds? Well, because its provisions will contribute to the overall development of the improvement of our economy or rather, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which was set up already in 2014, by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of honourable Members of the people, and the engine of that modernisation of Serbia is Aleksandar Vucic. And secondly, the law will contribute to the process of faster and more effective accession of our country to the EU, as one of the strategic objectives. Note, the Republic of Serbia has made a commitment to transpose by the end of the third quarter of 2021 European Parliament and Council directives on the management of alternative investment funds into our country's national legal framework. That's what we're going to do by passing a new law that regulates alternative investment funds and that obligation right here, today we're trying to implement. We will thus make these funds more attractive and recognizable for foreign investors, which will lead to an increase in investment in our country, and all of this will contribute to faster employment and better life for our citizens. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, from day to day, you, Mr. Minister Mali, as well as the Interior Minister Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic and a number of SNS MPs, are exposed to severe media attacks, and is particularly exposed to these fierce media attacks by our President Aleksandar Vukic. These media attacks are the work of individual stakeholders to call journalists, political analysts, so-called. Charlatan, president of individual political parties and parties associated with foreign power centres. What's their goal? They aim to weaken the negotiating position of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic when he tries to seek a compromise, sustainable and just solution for our Serbian province. In these media attacks, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, along with others, have included individual professors of the University who consider themselves free-thinking people, and they are not, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, either free or thinking, because they are trapped by themselves in their world of ideas. If they're going to deal with politics, they have political parties, so let them articulate their political views through political parties, but they can't do it at the university, cooing and pushing students at individual politicians and dealing with politics. It's not only illegal, it's not even in accordance with academic honesty, and it's even less out of line with our professor's moral character. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is it possible for individual professors at the universities of philosophical and political sciences to buzz communism in the head and live for 30 years in capitalism? So they're trapped with themselves, because at the time of the Communist Party, they could express political views beyond her sometimes in colleges, and in a multi-party system where they teach? To whom do they lecture in the multiparty system, especially the professors of sociology and philosophy? One part of the callers, journalists, actors and directors are still performing Western apologies today, to prove to God that the United States and NATO were right to bring down Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and war crimes, guess who, honourable MPs -- of course, President Alexander Vukic. Imagine Professor Dr Janko Veseinović, in a people known as Janko Stanocrat, this man as a professor stole the apartment of Milic Baji refugees from Obrovec in the Street of Brace Kurjaković, number 7 and, thanks to this Vice President, Mr Arsic, Honored MP Marijan Rističević and many others, see, with criticism of this, and my smallness, Baja Milica moved into her apartment on the 7th Street of Brace Kurjakovic. But, look at the wonders, Professor. Vesenović took a new and bigger and founded Association for the Return of Serbs and History and, of course, takes the money. Now, you see this Janko Veselinovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. He advocated and today advocates a boycott of the election, and now I'm going to tell you why and the call, believe it or not, the army and the police on the streets. He said in 11/09/2019: "After the boycott, ask for new elections to be called, if not, the direct turn of the military and police to the side of the protesters. “ Now, gentlemen of the people and respected citizens of Serbia, this Janko Veselinovic and many of his associates are precisely why they are attacking Minister Stefanovic of the police these days, fiercely and the minister of the military, for these reasons. But, lo and behold, this Janko Veselinovic, like him, has a huge experience from October 5th, when he and his contemporaries, along with foreign factors, participated in the violent takeover of power and the burning of this high home, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the 14th Congress of the Communist Union, where I was one of the delegates, behold, a miracle, stood up for a pay phone and demanded that the great Democrats be banned from speaking to delegates at the 14th Congress of the Communist Union. I'm still not counting. Dear People's MPs, this has been my goal in the case of him, that you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and you of the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, see what they're preparing for us in a few months. I'm going to use a quote from the esteemed Diane Johnston what they did on October 5th and what they're preparing for us now. I quote: "On the wings of the people's celebration due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, which was bordered by drunkenness, Serbia’s own self-proclaimed experts, the half-holy of all calibers and profiles, who promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for hostages and prey." Dear citizens, that's what they're preparing for us, you remember October 5th, but these are other times. Allow me, while we're at it, to say two more, three sentences. Look at the wonders, he came back again after my criticism of Goran Markovic, a.k.a. the bumblebee. He said in 04.07.2019 that Aleksandar Vukic, quotes, primitive personality and adds that the percentage, and the crowd is its natural environment. Now, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are most directly called here and, behold, Goran Markovic calls us a mob. The same, Goran Markovic, said on 30th August 2019, that the Serbian government is terrorist and that the election is now being organised by a group of bandits. The so-called Goran Markovic has never said that the Shiptar government of the so-called. An independent Kosovo is run by a group of bandits and terrorists, but he probably knows he's leading it, but if he doesn't know, he could read it then, and I'm going to quote Kesner, an MP in the German Bundestag, and I know that he read this, a former KFOR soldier who says, quote: "I met Thaci in the OVK uniform during Kosovo's service, whose members committed serious war crimes, and today they sit in the government without ever being punished," the quote concluded. That's what Goran Markovic never said, even though he knows about this data. Once again I recommend to Goran Markovic, so-called Director, that all these spoken words, the abominations he said about President Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Foreigner, the individual MPs, and most importantly, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who he called the mob, framed and placed in his living room to remind himself daily of his high artistic range and fine education, and in the morning when he wakes up, washes, look in the mirror, he will see a clumsy beetle in him, full of hatred for his own people and President Vukic, who has been lying in it for years. I'm afraid, honourable citizens and MPs, when he learns that Alexander Vukic and his president of the state are, and he said he's not, that hate in him will plan and destroy him himself. God help him. In his defense, believe it or not, the great Biljana Srbanovic, called cocaine, appeared. That's what Biljana said about Sergei Trifunovic, I quote, when he led the protests, "The Unwashed, False Sergei. Now, that's your leader. He was always a sneaky liar, always creeping in on me, always licking on me, being a gold medal in getting in my ass." It's a finished quote. It is this Biljana Srbanovic, called Koklinovic, who told you about Academyman Dobrića Cosic, when he invited our students from the diaspora to defend the country, quote: "He was ashamed of the handsome, evil, dodgy, lazily, uneducated, primitive and beneficial old man." It's a finished quote. Now, this is Biljana Srbanovic. I still did well in one list, because whoever dictated that text to her was confused, behold, miracles, whether it was called smurkanovic or cocaine or duvanovic. Here, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is the elite who attacks daily the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and his closest associates. And I will end up once again with the word of Svetislav Basara, who was a member of the Democratic Party and Ambassador, who said of all the variants of these colleagues from the Democratic Party, quote: "It is a self-government community of thieves and thieves. “ A complete quote, May 21, 2019. God help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61771	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61772	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, gave the previous Investment Funds Act a foundation for this institution. However, changes and additions of the law had to be made in order to find better solutions for such an institution. The changes have brought more stable and secure operations to the funds. The domestic market remained underdeveloped due to the lack of market material and financial instruments for investment, so much of the funds were invested in banks, which was not the purpose of the investment fund. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act has therefore been approached. In order to ensure a higher level of protection and restore investor confidence, further precision has been made on the conditions of establishment, business and investment. The new proposals more detailed the policy of managing the risks of investment funds, rewarding policies, depositary liability. In addition to the new forms and structures of the organisation of these funds, we expect further domestic and foreign investors. The key is the development of the capital market and the development of the investment fund industry. Individual assets of investors are invested through licensed portfolio managers, persons with certified knowledge from this area who invest funds in different types of assets. Such a diversifying way of investment is less risky on the capital market. Liquidity is another advantage of investment in investment funds because the funds invested are available to the investor no later than five days from the adoption of the requirements. The main objective is to preserve the value of the assets, with a certain rate of contribution being achieved, for a certain period of time by investing in domestic and foreign securities markets. This opens up a new savings market, which brings a better contribution to the banks themselves. Investment funds allow investors to choose both the effects and the way they want to provide funds, either to increase existing capital. Regulations that would allow non-banking financial institutions to arrive would lead to our financial system becoming more diverse and competitive. The advantage of non-banking institutions is also to advise their clients in a safe way how to manage the funds invested. Following progress in establishing macroeconomic stability for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises as a driver of economic growth, but also for business, further specific policies are needed, such as the adoption of non-banking financial institutions that exist everywhere in European countries. Enabling work or encouraging the work of investment funds and alternative investment funds would create new opportunities to invest in our economy, i.e. They additionally place money, and thus, new jobs would be opened. All this is important in order to develop our financial institutions and achieve even better results in the economy. In the end, I would like to invite all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to the October 6th elections and to support the Serbian list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61773	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61774	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to thank Mr Sinisha Malo for all the great results he has achieved in leading the Ministry of Finance. I want to thank him for a very detailed interpretation of all the provisions of the bill that are under way. I want to thank all my colleagues from the SNS, all the colleagues who belong to the parliamentary groups who are with us in the coalition. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the opposition, especially my colleagues from the SRS. We have shown that we can civilisedly discuss issues that are very serious, which are very important for this country, although we do not have to and do not need to agree on everything. We have shown that parliament is a place where a democratic debate and a democratic dialogue can be held, and I think it is a good message for those who for various reasons are boycotting the National Assembly sessions that there is no other place to discuss important social issues besides the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to say to you, Mr Ministers and MPs of the SNS Group and MPs who belong to the parliamentary groups of our coalition partners, is that we will vote on Monday for the draft law amending the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, that we will vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax and on the Amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, because we want President Aleksandar Vukic, in line with his constitutional powers, to sign those laws, that these laws be published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the economy of the Republic of Serbia, as soon as possible feel all the positive effects of these laws that we are discussing these days. So I call on you, distinguished colleagues and, above all, SNS MPs, but also our esteemed SPS colleagues, the SDPS, the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, the PUPS and, of course, all others who want to join our fight for our economy and for our public finances to be in even better shape than they are now and that our citizens and that our economy can feel all the results of those difficult measures that we had to take in 2014 and which now give their results in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 and in all those years ahead. Of course, I can't help but take advantage of today's important day for the state of Serbia, it's important for the Serbs living on KIM, it's important for the whole Serbian people. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to invite all Serbs living in KIM, all displaced persons from KIM to vote for the Serbian list on Sunday, October 6, 2019. It's not a hard choice. The Serb people in KIM are facing a difficult choice, but in some ways easy. Anyone who does not vote for the Serb list actually votes for the KLA in different forms and under different names. The Serbian list was led by Pristina, led by all four Albanian lists, but against the Serbian campaign were led by some of the fools from Belgrade, such as Dragan Djilas, such as Vuk Jeremic, such as Bosko Obradovic. This campaign is being run in the most unsuspecting way today. Of course, the campaign is hit primarily by Aleksandar Vukic, because our enemies and those of Pristina and these fools from Belgrade know that he is the head of the Serbian list, that he is head of the Serb people on KIM Aleksandar Vukic. And just today, and right now, an alleged independent journalistic research association, KRIK, has published a photo showing Milan Radojicic, Mr Rakic and Pacoli speaking. That is why they do not need to vote for the Serb list, and this Ljoticvac, who turned overnight into the EU's largest advocate in the world, is asking Aleksandar Vukic to resign. What else can Serbs do on KIM than hold talks with those chosen by Albanians? We didn't choose them. We did not choose the representatives of Albanians to be Bedget Pacolli, to be Thaci, Haradinaj, Ljimaj, Kurti and similar to them. They were chosen by Albanians. We have no other way to solve the KIM problem except to talk to those the Albanians chose. That the citizens of Serbia know, and know it very well, above all the Serbs with KIM, neither Dragan Djilas nor Vuk Jeremic nor Boško Obradovic nor Rada Trajkovic nor Nenad Rasic, as it is called, who calls in Albanian to vote for an independent Kosovo, but are on the Shyptarian search warrants Radojić, Rakic and all others who fight for the survival of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. So, just today, on the fourth of October, they found that the photo was published, as allegedly crown proof of why it should not be voted for the Serbian list. I say on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group – that is why it is necessary to vote for the Serb list because the Serb list is proof that the state of Serbia is present at KIM. You, Mr. Minister, know that the National Investment Plan, presented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, is intended to implement 350 projects in the various areas of social life in our KIM and that the total value of these projects is 150m euros. This is proof that Alexander Vucic, that the Serbian government, that the SNS, that the parliamentary majority, but also our colleagues from the SRS, who I want to thank for showing, and I know that it wasn't a simple decision for them, that they showed that they were able to subdue the party's interest to the state and national interest, I want to thank them for that, I want to thank them for showing them that in difficult times, like NATO bombing, we Serbs, when we want and when we have genuine will and desire, we can be unique about one issue that burns and hurts us all together, which is KIM, and these are Serbs who live on KIM. What Serbian citizens need to know is that one who does not vote for the Serbian list of votes for an independent Kosovo, votes for it to be normal for the "Serbian" video to be called a ban on KIM. Can you imagine whose application? Not after Haradinaj's report, not after Thaci's report, not after Kurti's report. A large, free, independent journalist, an intellectual, thinker Slobodan Georgiev reported to the Central Election Commission in Pristina the video "Serbia calls" and asked that the video be banned at its request, or after its application, the Central Election Commission in Pristina banned the Serbian list's video "Serbia Calls". Why am I saying all this? To ensure that citizens of Serbia know that today against the Serb list, against the Republic of Serbia, against Alexander Vukic, all four Albanian lists of KIM have been conspired against the government of the Republic of Serbia, that these fools from Belgrade, whose head is Dragan Djilas, have conspired to the countries of Quinte who are not in the interest of the Serb List to win Serbian votes at KIM. Just because everyone has stood up against our people in Kosovo and Metohija, now is the right time to show unity and that Serbs in KIM, those who live on KIM and all those Serbs who are forcefully displaced from KIM, on 6 October are voting for no one else, but for the Serb list. Because Serbia is calling for the Serbian list to be voted on. We're expecting tough days when it comes to KIM. The Serbian list's victory on October 6th will only be the continuation of a difficult and exhausting battle for the Serbian interests of KIM. And on the subject of KIM, we all need to be unique. Today, as in Kosovo in 1389, you can see exactly who is who and who is on whose side. I am proud that my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and the United Pensioners of Serbia, from the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, the Serbian Radical Party, have shown that they are on Serbia's side. And let it be a shame, especially those from Belgrade, to be rich in the torment and distress of our people, who robbed him, who brought us into this situation, Mr. Minister, you know very well, the economic and financial hopelessness, those who fled to Romania when the Cypriots declared the independence of KIM, those who set the border on Jarinj and Brnjak in 2011, should be ashamed that they are on the same side with Haradinaj, with Thaci, with Lejim, with Kurti and fighting against the Serb list. I am proud that we are from the SNS, which are our coalition partners, which are our friends, that our colleagues from the SRS are on the Serbian list, which means on the side of Serbia, on the side of Serbia that is present in both Kosovo and Metohija. I want a convincing victory of the Serbian list, I want a Serbian people in KIM peaceful and safe elections and Serbia, counterpart Mircic asked if we provided buses, since there is a direct television transmission, is not wise to talk about it publicly, but, believe me, we have made sure that all Serbs living in central Serbia and have a registered residence in KIM on 6 October 2019 use their right to vote for the Serbian list. I hope that in the evening of October 6th, we will be able to declare a convincing victory, not only of the Serb lists, the victory of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61775	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61776	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to thank you, Minister, for one responsible and serious approach during these four days and for the debate we have had on very important legislative proposals, not diminishing, of course, never the importance and importance of any legislative proposal. But when we talk about the budget and when we talk about budget rebalancing, it's life. You had one responsible and serious approach and active participation during the debate. I will wish you what I have done and the first day of exposure, to continue responsibly, seriously and committed to doing your job and, in the coming period, which is before us, to come to parliament with positive results from the economy and finance. Also, I want to say that in the previous four days, we had a constructive debate in parliament, that we had a democratic confrontation of opinions and a democratic debate. So we don't have to think the same thing about all the questions. It's just that sometimes it's not good to think the same way, because if everyone thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough. But we had a conflict of arguments, so the power of arguments, not force of force. And that's what one part of the opposition doesn't understand. In these four days, Parliament has shown what Mr Martinovic said in a debate on very important legislative proposals, and I fully support it, that it is the only place where dialogue is being conducted. The dialogue was conducted, conducted and will be conducted in the next period of time only in parliament. Because we have been given the mandate and trust of citizens to talk in parliament about alternatives to how to get as high-quality legal solutions as possible that will be in the best interest of our citizens. There's no other place. On the other hand, of course we support the set of legislative proposals proposed, and when it comes to the first, second and third joint debate, because, above all, they are heading towards what is the essential goal, which is to realise the declared objectives and principles of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the reform course of the Government of Serbia, which are based in 2014. When it comes to the second set, we have submitted a number of amendments. Of course, we expect to continue the debate in the democratic spirit next week, as was the previous days. But what is fundamentally important, Mr. Minister, is what you have said more than once -- Serbia is definitely on the right track, when we talk about economic and financial policy, because in each sector there is progress, there is a positive trend, but a positive trend based on sound foundations. These healthy grounds would not have been if we hadn't taken all together, and in 2014, when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic, the difficult, unpopular political measures, but the measures that were measures to save the Serbian economy and the measures concerning Serbia's future and the future of each Serbian citizen. The most important thing now is that the work we started, the process started in 2014 you, ministers, along with all of us, to the end and to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements. And what I said in the opening statement, I'm going to repeat today, to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements, to use the benefits properly in the future, which we do through this rebalancing, and to accept all those initiatives that lead to growth and development. So, essentially, another very important thing -- the budget rebalance, takes care of the citizens' interest, on one hand, when we talk about the standard of living of citizens who have been through a difficult period with us, but today we have the possibility, thanks to positive economic and fiscal results, to pay attention to the citizens' living standards through increased wages and pensions. On the other hand, public interest is taken into account through investment in infrastructure projects, as there is no economic without infrastructure development. Of course, expenditure won't jeopardize stability, public debt continues to fall, we talked about it, 52% of GDP at this point, we have stable inflation and we have a stable rate of dinar. At the very end, I'll take the opportunity, I have so much time. I agree with counterpart Tomic, of course that the KiM issue is about the laws we are talking about today, you are absolutely right and I will take the opportunity, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to invite all Serbs in the KIM territory to go to the elections and support the Serb list on Sunday 6 October, because the vote for the Serbian List is a vote for survival and the future of the Serb people in these areas. No one can share and argue with the Serb people in the KIM area. We believe that the Serbs in KIM know and recognize what their interest is and there is no need for individual opposition leaders to talk to them about it from a comfortable chair, not stepping down ever, but absolutely never to the KIM space. Today, one of the opposition leaders, I don't know if you had the chance, call the leader, hold a press conference and say that the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and the foreign minister, invited the Serbian people to KIM and did a terrible thing, and they shouldn't have done it. It is not about fear that, as he said, they would not break ties with Serbia, as the opposition claim, this is about both the president of Serbia and the government and the foreign minister, the entire ruling coalition always being with its people in the KIM area. The whole public is well known, the President of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, is fighting a brave, honest fight in the defence of national and state interests. Above all, on the international plan and through strengthening Serbia's international reputation and image, to move the KIM and the rights of Serbs and the Serb community to KIM from a dead end for the past seven years. Who was it issued by Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dacic, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period of time? These call the leaders of opposition parties have never, nor have they now recognized what national and state interest is, what is the interest of the Serb people in the KIM area, because their personal interests have always been, above all, ahead of the national interests of our only state, Serbia and our people. We don't understand their interest in not supporting Serbs in the KIM area this time either. Our people who, despite everything they've been through in the last two decades, have remained in their hearths. So this is about survival, about fighting for the survival of the Serb people in the KIM area, and we support the commitment, determination, the struggle of our people to fight through this unfair and incorrect electoral company for their survival in KIM space. Also, I have to say, there are a lot of political parties on the political scene of Serbia, but one Serbia is and this is what this parliament has shown today, and this is what our distinguished colleagues from the SRS have shown today, regardless of what comes from the opposition's ranks and represent the opposition political option. So we can conflict and exchange views with arguments through discussion on different topics, but when it comes to national and state interests, citizens expect, first of all, one responsible and serious relationship that Parliament has shown today. Only in this way can we defend national and state interests, because Serbia has always been as strong as it is unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61777	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61778	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will call immediately at the beginning, not only the Serb population, but all the endangered population at KIM, primarily Serbian, but also the other one who feels compassion for Serbs, who vote on their conscience, to vote in favour of the Serb list. To vote for the Serb list on their conscience, because I firmly believe that it cannot vote for Nenad Rasic or Nenad Rasic or Rada Trajkovic, Rada Trajkovici, by his conscience and consciousness. I especially appeal to the agricultural and rural population living in enclaves, not to show their love for their country with their voice, they showed that love by survival in the most difficult conditions possible. In small Serb camps in Europe, under NATO's protection. I appeal to them that for who knows which way they show their courage again and go to the polls and vote for the Serb list, to convince other neighbours, who feel for their suffering to vote for the Serb list. The vote for the Serb list is good for honest Albanians who want not to live against Serbs, but want to live beside Serbs and Serbs. It would be good to give up their criminal leadership, which, as murderers, as criminals, came to power with the help of its sponsors. Sponsors will also be leaving, and Serbs will stay, as Albanians should know, in their country, in their province. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that the Serbian List will win all the mandates, not only thanks to our appeal, but, above all, to the faith of the people who survive in that space. Today, not because of Serbs in Kosovo, but because of money, Serbia is visiting a person named Nikos Statopulos, "BS partners". We're talking investment funds. He came to protect his investment in Serbia. At least that's what these Luxembourg TVs say. He is president of United Group, a junior partner in "BS partners". They bought it from the "KKR United Group", which is registered in the Netherlands. His investment, in my opinion, was the purchase of ownership, BS partners, thus investing nothing in Serbia. The United Group is registered in the Netherlands. Why in Holland? Because there's evidence of ownership. It's very difficult in the Netherlands to check who owns a particular company. All other companies are registered in Luxembourg, including television. His TVs don't pay taxes here. His TVs, because he now owns United Groups, and thus United Media and all TV channels, which play cross-border channels here. He owns the scam. Its televisions are not registered in Serbia. He bought it. He is the president of United Media. The United Media and the Darekt Media are Gilasov's. I have here proof that United Group, or United Media, has transferred ten and a half million to the Darekt Media. Was it money, and it's not just money for the building that Sollac paid for? Whether it was money to finance political parties and political activists who are in Serbia on the path of this transaction, we remain to speculate, but the relationship is certainly known. His media isn't registered here, they're cross-border. He complains and says this about Serbia -- a problem with the rule of law, an independent judiciary, media freedom, stable tax institutions. Those are his remarks. Someone who bought United Group just a month ago, and therefore these double-crossing cross-border channels are saying this. I can agree with him in part. These judges who chose these yellow cockroaches in 2008, should make sure that their fraud doesn't work here. If you own an Investment Fund, then you must make sure that your investments are legal. They haven't arrived in this country yet. He invested in David Petreus, a former CIA fuck and former commander of military forces who owned the KKR, who owned the previous United Group. That money never arrived in Serbia, but he wants to show that the money he invested in the former head of the CIA is that he invested it in Serbia. No, the former head of the CIA, who bought the "SBB" that developed on the EPS, on the privileges given to him by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and the team, their first investor was Soros. He invested the IBRD. These are all changes in ownership. I urge him to consider the rule of law, when he talks about tax institutions, to cheat on the state of Serbia. Jugoslav Ćosic himself admitted that all their companies in Serbia are down. How do you, Mr. Statopulos, pay and buy for 2.6 billion SBB and United Group where the main feather is SBB and these cross-border channels, you pay for 2.6 billion? The SBB has been showing losses for years, Adrija News, who is trying to show here that it owns N1 television, and the real owner is Adria News from Luxembourg, that Yugoslavia Cosic is acting as director here, the company is here at a loss of 7.5m euros, in the loss of SBB. It is obvious that money is pumping up because Yugoslavia's Cosic itself says the revenues are 500m euros within the system. The system was bought for 2.6 billion, and then you object, cable operator, mostly cable operator, which, miraculously, only in Serbia could own Statopulos television channels. Imagine a printer who has his own newspaper. Europe tells us you can't own a pipe and a gas owner, that you can't own electricity and own a wire. But suddenly you can only own a SBB cable operator in Serbia and be the owner of television channels. Of course they skipped all the national channels and lined themselves up in seat number one and place number two. In doing so, these channels are not registered in Serbia, but are reportedly re-emitting the programme in Luxembourg. Mr Statopulos, the re-emission under the Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on Cross-border Television and our Media Act says the same thing. Re-emission is a simultaneous takeover of media services, without alterations, complements and terminations. So you're taking over at the same time. There is no evidence that N1 TV, New Television, Sports Clubs, Sinai and other SBB-owned channels registered in Luxembourg are broadcasting the programme anywhere but Serbia. If there is no broadcast in Luxembourg or Slovenia, there can be no re-emission in Serbia. It's an obvious scam. Just because they're not registered, they don't pay REM fees, they don't pay RATEL, they don't pay SOKOJ, they don't pay advertising taxes, and the advertising deals with CAS Media and the Direkt Media, owned by the United Group, and they were once connected to Gilas. So, Gilas and Solak are still doing business through that group, they have the right money for it, they have the right positions. Solak drives a 55m-euro plane, goes from golf to golf tournaments and laughs and says he is not a taxpayer in Serbia, but in Switzerland. Wait a minute. All these businesses in Serbia are down, and you've got revenues, you bought a $55 million plane. Where did that money come from? By pumping money across fake cross-border televisions, by paying them for re-emission and more euros per user, with 900,000 users in Serbia. The easiest way to pump money -- my operator takes money, I take money from citizens as a subscription, I pump that subscription by transferring money to channels that are registered to me by fake cross-border outside, I don't pay any taxes, fees in Serbia, no taxes and pump that money out and leave a loss here, and in doing so, Yugoslavia's Cosic who makes losses pay 4,000 euros and interest in a private company of 12,000 euros. Journalists in N1 television whose Adria News is lost have salaries of 3,000 euros, knowing the owners and journalists of our regular media. Imagine what would happen if all the media took our home, and fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and said – we are cross-border media, we pay nothing. What would Ratel, REM, and so on live on? Who would pay advertising taxes in the state of Serbia to domestic channels that they play on SBB and which make 80% of the visible programme? United Group, or SBB, pays nothing, Mr Stratopulos. They don't pay them anything. Although these domestic channels finance both REM and RATEL and SOKOJ, performers, etc., they get nothing, although their product, a program made by journalists, cameramen, installers, have to give free of charge to the SBB, otherwise they will not be visible to all viewers, pay them nothing. It pays nothing to cross-border channels, or very little, regular such as Euro sport, BN and various other, valid real cross-border channels. Only these fake cross-border channels pay a few euros per user. The goal is to pump the money out of one of your companies in Serbia, show the losses here, transfer the money to Luxembourg, Malta and Switzerland, and then hypocritically say - I am not a taxpayer in Serbia, I am in Serbia making losses, by pumping money, buying a villa on Lake Geneva, buying a "fallon", or as it's called, 55m-euro mark, and I despise you Serbs, but I take your money, taking it out. The fact that they're bought by an investment fund for 2.6 billion, that's clear proof that these companies, mothers companies, daughters of companies, sisters of the firm, are making and how they win. It's a confirmation of what I'm saying, that money's being pumped up, and that's "BS partners," and this junior junior Junior Stratopulos certainly knows and he's here to protect it. He claims they've been persecuted or neglected here. He who has a dominant position and needs to be checked, and investigates the people of the Competition Protection Commission, how the SBB bought a series of small operators and gained 54% of the cable market. It's a dominant position. They could not have come to this without the permission of the Competition Protection Commission. If she had done her job, she should have protected domestic media, living off advertising and getting nothing from the SBB, and paying all taxes to Serbia. They should protect them from black-based channels, pay nothing to the state of Serbia, and pump out money from subscription to Serbia. It's a clean robbery of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have to put, as was that saying, the point of the robbery, so let the "BS partners" see what they're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-04-0.u61779	Thank you. Since no one is coming forward anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue Monday at 10:00.
