ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68379	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 64 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Amendments and additions of the Law on the military of Serbia The People's MP Sreto Perić submitted the amendment to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Serbia, the army of Serbia is the army of every citizen of Serbia, regardless of any of its further definitions. Serbia's army is love, defence, and industry. Vidan is a positive shift in Serbia's military, only one who won't see, can't see, and so much about it. Mr. Minister, you said well yesterday that the Serbian Army deserves a brand-new law, but Serbia's military should be discussed at least once a year on any topic, because indeed the Serbian Army and Serbian citizens deserve it anyway. In order for you to have good material for the new law on the Serbian Army, you should respect the suggestions of the MPs, primarily the MPs of the SRS, because these others mostly think everything is fine, as it is on today. One of our colleagues said we should be a real nationalist, and if we are, then we can't easily reject the SRS proposal, that we should focus our co-operation on the alliance with Russia, that is, the ODKB. Perhaps you would be right about military neutrality, if Serbia were not threatened in the way it is, today if it had no problem, if it had not been kidnapped 15% of its territory, perhaps the status of military neutrality would most correspond to Serbia. But given the fact that it is not so, or that there is a danger of hijacking the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then connecting with this alliance and how good it is. He said one of his colleagues yesterday that we should establish and strengthen co-operation with NATO. It's kind of not natural for me. If we have in mind what they've been doing to us, we can never expect anything good from her. With the Russian Federation, of course, we can expect and gather some courage, Mr. Minister, you have good associates. To NATO representatives, they really don't belong at the General Staff. Be a good host, find them another location, but they don't belong there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68381	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word is from the National MP Dr Branimir Rancic. Doctor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68382	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests from the Ministry of Defence, respected MPs, in my address I would first like to thank and congratulate the citizens of Subotica for opening Ipilon Kraks on Corridor 10, which shows that SNS and its President, Aleksandar Vucic, for all the swearings, accusations and all possible negative things referred to Alexander Vucic, Government, ministers and MPs, are responding to new roads, modernisation of railways, new airports, new clinical centres, health homes, including the modernisation of the Army. Anything I say, I support the facts. For example, I have to say that the new helicopters from France and Russia are parked at the airport. Staff Sergeant Mihajlo Petrovic's military airport in Nis is richer for the new Hangar. This facility is designed according to the latest standards and will have H145M and Mi-35 helicopters stationed in France. As you can see, we are not only getting weapons from Russia, but also from other countries depending on our interests and Russia in Hangar with the battery cell of this aircraft will be protected from changing weather conditions. This is the first Hangar built after NATO bombing in 1999, where seven of these facilities were destroyed at the airport. Also, as an MP from Nis, I have to say something about the 63rd Paratroopers brigade, which is not only the pride of the Serbian state, but also the city of Nis. Following the formation of the Serbian Army in 2006, this unit, meaning the 63rd paratrooper and 72nd brigade for special reconnaissance-diversant-profile operations, has been downgraded to battalion rankings. So, after 13 years, they're back to the place that belongs to them. As for the 63rd Paratroopers and the 72nd Special Operations Brigade, I must say that the soldiers who serve in these units take two oaths - a military oath and a paratrooper's oath, whose motto is this: "For the country, for the second, for the rifle, for the military and the military honor, the paratroopers of the 63rd Brigade are working! “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68383	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68384	Thank you. I would like to say that I agree with the government's opinion, but also with what I want to point out, it is that this member of the law refers to secondary military education and to the production of those who have graduated from secondary military education in the rank of sergeant. Of course, every honor and all praise for the introduction of sub-offices and for the education of our students to obtain a post-office rank. What I'm trying to say is that the destroyers of Serbia's yellow tycoon company in 2005, abolished secondary vocational education, because not only did they not need an army, but it did not need a youth who, by his knowledge and skill, would work to protect the tools and weapons that the Serbian Army is using in its regular activities. I can say that only in 2015, when the Serbian Prime Minister was current President Aleksandar Vukic, and military minister Gasic, secondary military education was returned to our system. I have to say that only this year did the first class of senior officers come out and that they took a solemn oath in "Miloshove Takova". All congratulations to these officers, because they are doing their job today mostly on tools, on the Air Force and on air defense. I also want to point out that great efforts have been made by this government, our President, Alexander Vukic and, of course, by your Ministry in improving the conditions of life and improving the international conditions in which military high school students and high school students live. I must say, it was also a renovated boarding school that was built in 1976. In 1978, military high school students and high school high school students completed a new modernized space, and the state invested 180 million dinars. Of course, today there are those haters, those destroyers, those who have neither cheek nor honor, nor have had to strike in the worst possible way at the basic principles of the Defence Strategy, which is a matter of national sovereignty and integrity, but Dragan Djilas' politics, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic's policy is a policy of lies, politics of deception and politics of evil. This policy cannot win the policy of success and progress, and the politics of success and progress of the Republic of Serbia and strengthening the Republic of Serbia's Army work every day in the interest of the military, in the interest of the state, in the interest of peace and security of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68385	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojčić. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68386	Dear Chairman, Madam Vice President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I want to thank you for paying attention to the essence of military education. The essence of each army is training, it is preparation, it is education. It's incomprehensible and it can't be explained, it can't be explained rationally, it can be a little bit different to think about, and then it can be thought about the real motives of those who did it so that in 2005, you can end a high-school military school, end the preparation of boys and girls who will tomorrow maintain our aircraft, maintain our radar systems, our anti-aircraft systems, save them. They exist, but you end those who will take care of them. It's absolutely common sense incomprehensible and incomprehensible. I'm taking this opportunity to share with you and with the citizens of Serbia, to tell you what they wanted to turn into, and for good, they even managed to turn into a system of military education in general. Gentlemen in the uniforms you see here, their diplomas are written by an officer. Boys and girls who are now finishing the Military Academy and who have completed it in the past ten years, their diplomats read "manager in defence". They're defense managers. They prepared them to one day stop working in the army and deal with something else in their lives. Next year we'll change that. We will return, of course, by respecting the laws properly. We'll have the officer back as an officer, not a defense manager. Do you know that he's at headquarters training... It's a form of very important training for our officers, we've now introduced, more specifically, a return to military geography, military history, modern weapons systems. Imagine, we trained the highest-ranking officers, the highest-ranking officers in our army, without having military history or military geography? You're just wondering what they were learning. What did they teach them? We've come to the point that the student, the pitomatist, the fourth-year Army Academy cadet didn't have one single fight class. We didn't prepare officers for that. I guess we prepared them for a song and a game, huh? Imagine the extent to which it was brought? To make our military education more civil than civil. You don't prepare officers, you don't prepare those who will defend the country, you don't teach them military history, you don't teach them military geography, you don't teach them modern weapons systems. Then what do you teach them? It's all the things we change. For all these things, of course, it takes both money and personnel, but it takes time. This time from 2005 to 2015, when we abolished High School of Professional Military, can't be compensated. It's just not possible. We're fighting now. Of course, we're fighting to move as much as possible, to get the whole society to help us get the army back, including military education, where it belongs. We all need to pay attention to military education together. As we train them, they will be, such officers will be, so will our army. What we are doing now at the Department of Defense, what we are doing at the University of Defense, we are doing to return military training to the needs of the military, that it is the army that determines what it will need, to what extent it will need and what profile of the officers, what profile of the sub-office she wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68387	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68388	It is good that the army returns to traditions, or traditions that return to the army, above all, and when it comes to secondary vocational education. We all know and remember when the military high school was an elite school, where they were literally the most capable. I don't remember it used to be from high school, if it wanted to be activated, to be activated as in the act of a lower officer. I don't remember, maybe it was, but I don't remember. What is very important is that the financial situation here has also improved when it comes to the military and when it comes to the concerns and finances that are related to the Army of Serbia. The budget for next year is about 800 million, not counting the additional funds that are intended for equipment and all that the military needs. So, imagine what kind of effect that would be, and when it comes to education, and when it comes to equipmenting the army to throw down less, let's say, this one that runs traffic and buildings, that doesn't share so much 300 million, because in those 800 million that are meant for the Army of Serbia, something over 300 million is for salaries employed in the military? Imagine what order it is when she lightly accepts that "Bechtel" increases the price by 300 million? Imagine if funds at the level of local self-government, according to the DRI report, were misused, spent, scattered, billions and billions, if these funds were used rationally, especially for the needs of the military, in what situation would the Serbian Army be, which is a very important factor in defending the enemy rather than thinking about war?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68389	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68390	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, an analysis of the proposed additions and amendments to the Law on Serbia and the proposed Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, it appears that a thorough analysis has been carried out of all the members of the Law on the Serbian Army and that amendments and amendments to the Law remove many misunderstandings, unresolved issues, as well as members who need to comply with the other laws of the Republic of Serbia. Also, adding new members regulates issues that have been unregulated so far. I particularly point out the reintroduction, i.e. the return of the officers of the first-class captains and lieutenants of the battleship, as well as the second-in-command officer of the first-class. By shutting down these acts all these years, individual officers and delinquents carried certain acts for many years, which did not provide continuity during certain duties and was not provided for to gain experience in senior duties, as well as career training and staff management. Already after reading the additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, changes and additions to the Law are seen to create conditions to ensure a more favourable position of professional members of the Serbian Army, especially professional soldiers, as well as elders who are in service for a certain time. I come from Jablanic County, from the town of Leskovec, which has always been true of a city that loves and values its own army and whose country is always in first place. This occurred at the time of NATO aggression, when the then Leskovac Military Division, in order to fill the military units, mobilised the country's most reserve. All those who participated in the defense of the homeland were willing to give what was most valuable, and that was their life. These days, in symbol of the importance and marking of 20 years of NATO aggression, the local self-government of the town of Leskovci will discover a memorial to the names of all the dead fighters. Every year, local self-government of the town of Leskovec and the Ministry of Defence together promotes all military schools. As a result, we regularly have a hundred candidates for all military schools and always about 30 received. These eligible candidates, at the initiative of the Ministry of Defence of Local Self-Government Centre Leskovac, will escort the city with the mayor and wish them good luck with the presence of all local media. On this occasion, the town of Leskovac and the center of the Ministry of Defence for local self-government Leskovac present appropriate gifts to all eligible candidates. This way, a continuous positive promotion of all military schools is being made, increasing the number of interested candidates for military school competition, so there is already a huge interest in the competition for school 2020/2021. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68391	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68392	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have seen that there is a lot of evidence that the Serbian Government is working on the development of our army and everything that follows and there are a lot of facts that we can talk positively about, that is, in support of the fact that the military is now at a level that has actually earned all these years. I'm also thinking about getting new planes, new helicopters, new armored vehicles and other equipment. I'm also referring to the better material status of our soldiers and other military employees. For example, in 2012, the Ministry of Defence had about 50 billion dinars from the republican budget, and today we are talking about an almost double amount. Today it's about 95 billion dinars. Today we are talking about a bill on Serbia's Army, which will also bring about changes for the better, above all, concerning the status of soldiers, giving them the opportunity to work both in other state bodies or abroad. Another thing that is good is raising the age to 40 years for the admission of officers and officers to Serbia's military, or 45 years, through the possibility of passing training specialising in Serbia's military entry. We have also had the opportunity to hear many things about the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, and it is doubtless a comprehensive document that will have great importance for Serbia's defence system. The documents clearly define the objectives, clearly define the government's intensities, which also concern security issues, defence issues, but also economic development, but most importantly, it is unequivocal to define the preservation of independence, sovereignty and military neutrality. When we talk about the army, unfortunately, we have bad examples from the past, we have examples of irresponsible behaviour by statesmen. Some of them are now leaders or supporters of the Alliance for Serbia. We have examples of absolute indifference to this state resources, and we can even say in some cases that it was a conscious destruction of military equipment and infrastructure, just as we are today having attacks on our dedicated industry. By day-to-day placement, the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia are harming Serbia's security and defence, seeking to harm Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian government, which has both results in the development and uplifting of both the military and the dedicated industry. These attacks go so far that a few days ago we heard heavy accusations from Marinika Tepic, who, of course, told Dragan Dilas in the hall of the Assembly that we are giving the money from the sale of weapons to countries we expect to withdraw recognition of the so-called Kosovo. Seeking to harm Alexander Vukic and SNS or the Serbian government, they are in fact doing damage, irreparable damage to Serbia and citizens must be aware of this, must be clear of what the Alliance for Serbia leaders are doing, and that is actually destabilizing the entire system in which Serbia's defence and security are most important. The SNS parliamentary group will vote to support these proposals and will support the Serbian government not to give in to these pressures, because we want to continue living in a strong country, in a developed, modern and secure country, and the Serbian government has shown us that it is in this and their intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68393	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68394	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I must say that I am shocked that the National Assembly continues this debate as if nothing were going on. I don't know if you've been informed that tonight in Montenegro has been brought so-called. A law on freedom of religion, which created the conditions for the Serb people and Serb sanctities in Montenegro to experience some new March 17th. The MPs of the Democratic Front, who opposed it, were arrested. The people and clergy of the SPC gather all over Montenegro. There were roadblocks too. The situation is very tense and the question is whether there will be an escalation, whether there will be blood, whether civil war may occur, and you act as if nothing is happening. The state of Serbia's reaction does not exist. The Serbian president's reaction does not exist. The Republic of Serbia government's reaction does not exist. Will at least the Serbian Parliament and will you, at least as a national representative, be able to get the strength and courage to raise your voice and protect the Serbian people, to what, among other things, you are bound, but only declared, and by this law. Are you ashamed to be silent and to suffer that the Serbian people are experiencing humiliation without you reacting in any way? The regime in Montenegro has passed this law because it has been encouraged precisely by the absence of any reaction from Serbia since the moment the draft was adopted, so the bill, etc. You're whining like a grandmother, you say - we don't know what to do, what can we do? It's your only reaction. You should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68395	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68396	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the reform of any kind of education is a very important undertaking and I wish you much happiness in this work. You certainly had the honor of being westernized to regain what was once in the military school system. Why did it come to us that we'd been wiped out of military school? Well, because those who came to power on October 5, 2000, had an obligation to repay those who brought them to power and had no sense or wisdom to say – wait, brother, so you're tearing down a branch for me, tearing down a part of my education without whom I can't progress. But you said it would be hard to make up for. The army has capable personnel who have knowledge and know how to beat everything. I believe you'll succeed in this business and I wish you good luck. At the same time, I wanted to commend my colleague Sreta Perić's discussion, which was indeed a real opposition discussion, but as cultural and educated people do. He also pointed to the quality of this law and what you're doing, but he also pointed to how some things should be solved. I think that's how every opposition should behave. As for counterpart Sarovic, so as not to say that I am afraid to answer what he said, we are all aware of what is happening in Montenegro. I believe the government will respond properly. But we can't be cowboys or Indians and act like that, but we must be wise and smart, so as not to do much more harm to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68397	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You don't have a colleague, Sarovic, right on the line. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68398	Mr. Arsic, several members have been injured. Article 27 has been injured which obliges you to conduct the sessions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And a member of 104 has been injured, which determines that the MP is entitled to a replica if someone misreads his exposure. Mr Stojmirovic called me by name and said that we had no right to be cowboys, that we had no right to be Indians. If you feel that you, for example. That someone said you were Indian, that it wasn't offensive, that's your right. Mr. Arsic, I find that offensive and that in such a way no one has the right to address the MPs of the people. Perhaps, Mr. Stojmirovic, you are not afraid, but obviously the leaders of the regime and these here who play the heads of the parliamentary groups and the first fighters, some quasi-elite of yours here in the Assembly, that they have nothing to say and that they do not have... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68399	Kola Sarovic, if you find it offensive that counterpart Ljubisa Stojmirovic said he could answer you, and then he started talking about counterpart Sreti Perić, who did not report for the replica, while speaking with praise to fellow Members Sreti Perić, I do not see what your basis for replication is. ( Nemanja Sarovic: You obviously did not listen to his exposure. He just said that he could answer you, nothing more, and he kept talking about the amendment that he submitted... Nemanja Sarovic: Have you heard the story of cowboys and Indians? ) Comrade Sarovic, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68400	Mr. Arsic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have the right to plead and demand that the National Assembly be declared, but at the same time... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68401	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Goran Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68402	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry, I got a little later on, so this won't apply to Mr. Sarovic's discussion. I'm sorry you don't take this the wrong way. I wanted to look back at something that was earlier, which is the remarks of opposition MPs who came here in the O.R., and some more in the hall at the press conference said there was no transparency when they passed these laws, which is essentially not really standing. We're talking about the army here today, we're talking about defense, we're talking about security. Is there more transparency than this that in front of a million audience, we're talking about all this here today? I will dedicate myself to Mr. Zivkovic and his press conference the other day when he said, so cynically, how does he know that only he knows that there is no writing on page six – there is no rule out the possibility of armed intervention, so now he's asking himself this kind of sneezingly – who are we planning to defend ourselves from, are we aware of our environment, why isn't it written by who we plan to fight with? I have to look back at his follow-up, what he kept talking about, so he kept saying that according to the different combinations and theories that the armies' families are planning to use if there's an intervention on us, so we move on, and he says, "What will be the schedule of military units, so what is their capacity, so what is their weapons, so what is their personnel's equipment?" It's all something that, I think, a lot of foreign agents, who hang around Serbia, would want to know, so probably Mr. Zivkovic decided to help them out a little. I have to tell Mr. Zivkovic that Serbia has no intention of war with anyone, but it intends to defend itself against anyone. I will remind the public of what President Vukic said when he visited Greece, that Serbia is not a great and powerful force, but that it is an honest and loyal friend. That sentence contained everything. It is clear here that all those who want to be Serbian friends in Serbia will find an even bigger friend. To all those who do not favor us or we are not in favor of them, Serbia will try to give the hand of friendship in an argument and try to agree to them to be on our side. It is essentially a peaceful policy that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is leading. It is a prevention of Serbia's defence doctrine. Was Mr. Zivkovic, when he made decisions and was prime minister, and even the click that was in power at the time once was transparent? If you trust a fellow MP, General Bozidar Delic, and there's no reason not to believe proven patriots and soldiers that in July 24, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Zivkovic promised, accepted, donated, I don't know what to call it, that 800 soldiers of our army would go to Afghanistan in 2003, and that they would go into some peaceful operation, so let's not go to misery, but the action was called "search and destroy", a pure military operation, which resulted in the arrival of coffins with the bodies of our soldiers in Serbia. When it was suggested that it wasn't a peacetime operation, but a military operation, nothing happened. The general staff reacted, the political leadership didn't respond. Only when the army asked twice for 50 million, or 100 million for the equipment of these soldiers, to save their lives, did they just react to the system – we give your lives, but we do not give our money. How is this opposition present, when it was in power and when it made decisions, did it transparently destroy, or disbanded, 63rd paratroopers? It's not. General Posh did it. When it came to the 72nd Special Brigade, General Ponos did it quietly. Now General Ponoš became Zdravko Ponoš and then Zdravko Ponoš became the right hand of Vuk Jeremic. Now the two of them would probably like to break up Serbia. That SNS, our coalition partners, President Alexander Vukic will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68403	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Army is the most important institution of every state and every society. It's been like that since ancient times, that's how it's gonna be today, and that's how it's gonna be as long as there's a human race. What I want to say is a positive fact that the status of the Serbian Army is improved compared to the period after 2000 when the army was completely destroyed, when some experts, by order of the Western forces, considered and resolved that we did not need the military. No country, no society can do without an army. She has a saying that says, "He who has no army of his own will have someone else." Once again, it is good that the army is recovering and investing more and more in the military, because our society and the state of Serbia thanks, above all, the largest part of the army. What's not good, which is the status that declares this power, the status of neutrality. Neutrality is a questionable term. We can say we're Martians, but it's not up to us, it's up to others. We were both neutral in 1992 and 1999, so that did not prevent our enemies from committing aggression against our country and our people. As far as this education is concerned, it is good to reform that education in the military. It finally became clear what it was all about, but what I'd like to say about it is the fact that more insistence on this patriotic education is needed, because it's known that a soldier will understand better what to do with some patriotic song than with many lectures from tactical training and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68405	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68406	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing very important laws in the area of the Ministry of Defence and I hope that we will all agree that, as a state and as a region that had a very difficult period, it is important for us to maintain peace and the peace-building process. What I would like to stress on this occasion is that in the last few years we have made major progress in the process of co-operation of all the security structures in our country. That's where I would like to highlight the Ministry of Defense and the BIA. The minister in front of the ministry and BIA director are in charge of the co-operation, as are the MUP headed by Minister Stefanovic. What I would like to add to this occasion is that I am increasingly intimidated by the appearance of some so-called Alliance for Serbia leaders. I would stress that this is an alliance for Serbia's destruction and destruction, given what press conferences have been holding lately. On this occasion, I would also like to add to the list where a fellow MP from Triestenik, Mr Alexic, is regularly listed, and for 362 days, the work of this Assembly has been boycotted. I asked some questions at one of the previous sessions, but the gentleman did not do well, and he had already held a few conferences in the hall of this house, where each one did not pass without him calling Mr. Gasic. I don't know why this man is so obsessed with Mr. Gasic's character. Maybe because Gasic did more than two years when he was mayor of Kruševac than he did during all the time of his URS rule in Triestenik. This gentleman, you know he was seeing the BIA himself, so he published various tweets, and on the journalist's question whether it was true, he said he was just joking. I really can't believe a man of 40 can joke and act like a child five, six years old. What I want to show the same to our citizens, that on December 25th, he signed up neatly on the list where he attended the session. So he didn't have a little bit of a payout for the National Assembly, and he doesn't get into this gym. He signed orderly to get travel expenses. The same thing he did on December 26th. So, a man who doesn't even live in Triestenik, but we see him here in Belgrade, in nearby cafes where he's having some talks with some of his fellow Alliance colleagues gets signed neatly, gets paid, and doesn't do what the citizens paid him for. He did the same thing on December 12th. Honestly, I'm not someone who controls those lists, but I'm here on the same side as him, so when I get a chance, that's exactly what gets my eyes stuck because I see what that man's doing. Although I had a chance to see and hear what the Triesteans said about what he was doing in the period when he was president of the Triestenik municipality. He often knew he was talking about the laws of the Department of Defense, and I don't know if he ever served a military service. He only took the gun when he killed an animal and then boasted about social networks. I mean, I really don't know what else to say about this man. What I would add more, so here's my colleague agreeing with me, is that as president of the Triestenik municipality, it led the municipality to the brink of destruction. The data from the Anti-Corruption Agency says he's had more cash compensation, so that's a huge number, I'm afraid the Tristenics would faint if they heard all this, so I'd better not say it again. But that the nepotism as he performed at the time when the president of the municipality was never seen by maltenes because he placed his closest relatives on all possible functions, responsible functions, well-paid functions, from father-in-law to wife-in-law who still works on TV today, Tristenik, and otherwise that man knows very often that there is some media darkness in Serbia. I would add that the Triesteic municipality of Trstenik was not called Trstenik, but rather the principality, by the name of his father-in-law, because, as I said, he appointed the Lord of the family of the Princes to all responsible functions. Now that I'm dealing with his character today, I'd add that he didn't respond to what school he finished, because he's supposed to be being run like some kind of graduate economist, and I don't even know what college he graduated from or when. Then, I would add, another citizen must know what kind of errand Jeremic is working on, because he sold his party, as you know. I don't know how many supporters there are in Triestenik at all, but we have to remember that it has just been established by a public utility company called Počevina in a local community, a company founded just to take care of it as a fit of the URS. This Mr. Miroslav Aleksic, who does not hesitate to call all those successful people from Kruševac, the Rasin County, just to gain some cheap political points and lead the citizens astray, but the citizens know who Mr. Gasic is and who he is. What I would like to add is that through his party, in fact not party, but also those leaders who are in the Alliance for Serbia, he has recently given instructions to Mrs Sandy Raskovic Ivić, so in the lobby she has tried to clear the same thing on Mr Gasic and Mr Ivan Mijailovic, otherwise former VP manager at the "Kruševac". She said many lies about this gentleman, and all the Krushevians know in what state the foster home was in 2012, and what kind of institution it is now. So, unrecognizable has led to the manager of the previous one, Mr. Ivan Mijailovic and I can proudly say that as his party colleague and as someone who comes from Kruševec. The man who led this facility to such a state that we are all proud now and we are happy to have such a man who did all this for our city. So all those in that alliance for Serbia if they don't have a programme, as they don't have it, if they don't have arguments, politics, don't continue to deal with this kind of untruth and make all kinds of lies because we all know what kind of people they are because we come from these parts. They only work through the placement of lies, so they also work for the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, and for our local leaders, our colleagues, are trying to draw attention from the policy they led until 2012 and everyone knows what they left the state, the state that was on the verge of bankruptcy. What I want to add, in the voting day, we will support these good laws because I think it is very important that the Ministry of Defence continues to work as it has done so far because what is most important is the preservation of peace in our country, which is the basic goal of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68407	The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68408	Dear MPs, Bratislava Gasic is a valuable, decent, capable man and of course he will be attacked and of course they will be attacked, but the citizens of Kruševac, you know as they say, is the hardest to be a prophet in his village. Bata Gasic now has more votes than he had when he was the mayor of Kruševec. It means that the citizens recognized his work, that they recognized what he was doing for his environment and that they recognized what he was doing for his country and of course they were going to attack him. We can't expect to be praised by those who, as their only result, have an over-indebted community and nothing else, and of course they will attack it, and it's an honor and pleasure for us all to have such a man with us and of course we'll be there for him and for him and every lie that comes to you, she can hurt you in politics and damage you, but in the end, she knows who did what, and that's all that counts. If, by the amount of hate, elections were made, Aleksandar Vukic would never enter parliament as much as he was hated and attacked, but somehow, he entered parliament by miles of roads, by the amount of profits, by how much you increased your pensions, how much you improved your health care, how much stronger your army is. That's how you win the election. So hate hurts, hate insults, hatred brings nothing good to anyone, especially to our citizens, but hate and points to those who do the best and the sincerest. Thank you for distracting me and giving me the opportunity to give concrete information when it comes to improving standards in the Army. I'll give you some simple data that can't be falsified. They can be checked, they're very clear. The military's biggest salary during the DOS and DS regime was about 2008. There were probably some choices, so there was something extraordinary to increase, some money split. It doesn't matter how much inflation it was, whatever. They raise you 20%, and inflation is 30%, and they're worth what they gave you, but it doesn't matter. To be exact data as much as it was worth in the euro - the supporter in 2008 received 423 euros, today 564, Lieutenant 456, today 574, Captain 497, today 646, Major 557, today 756, Colonel 654, today 904, Colonel 837, today 1,001 without inflation. The money is worth no inflation that the state takes away what it gives you. With all the other things we've tried to make available to our army, from every active soldier having two uniforms, having new boots, having a third M93 working uniform to increasing the caloric value of meals. It may sound funny to someone, but for people who live and work in the Serbian Army, it's important that their meal be calorie and stronger, they have more food. We, ladies and gentlemen, came to this point, we were in a position to keep our food reserves in the Army single-digit, they're 100% today. So, as far as it's supposed to be food, fuel, clothing, shoes, they're at maximum, and it doesn't seem like much of an achievement, but it took time and money, it took the brave and responsible fiscal consolidation policy that President Vukic then led us to get the money, so that we could recover the collectives of companies that could produce it. Buy a uniform, so where to buy it if you don't have a jumko that's going to be real. And which "jumko"? Remember what "Jumko" looked like in 2012, 2013, shut down, cut off their electricity, workers strike, no wages, tax, contributions, nobody pays anyone anything. Now it is a company that is able to open new plants, which opens new factories, which is able to carry out all obligations to its customers. So things change, they change for the better. Is that enough? Of course not. Of course, every soldier of ours, every officer of ours deserves more, deserves much more, but will have more and can hope and can surely expect the state summit and its commander-in-chief to take care of him every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68409	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68410	Mr. Arsic, if you are unable to hold meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you do not seem to be able to, leave the presidency to someone else. Article 158(7) has been injured. I'll read it to you, you obviously don't know that member. He says: “The legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak about any amendment for up to two minutes. “ Up to two minutes. The minister just spoke for four and a half minutes. Did you take a nap, Mr. Arsic, or did you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, that's what you'll tell us when you give your answer, but it's obvious that you've allowed the minister to speak much longer, two and a half times as long as what the Rules of Procedure prescribes. Second of all, did you listen to the minister and the speaker before him? Today, military laws are on the agenda, Mr Arsic, so it is not a free topic and if anyone wants to propose a agenda item titled "How much I love Bata Gasic" so that MPs, ministers and all others compete.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68411	Comrade Sarovic, just to let you know, first of all, that the same measures were used when determining the topic of the agenda when you were speaking. So you cannot challenge the right of colleague Barisic to use the same criteria as you. The second thing, I must tell you, fellow, when it comes to time, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has spent nearly nine minutes more than the time it belongs to the Rules of Procedure so far. You can check that out, too. The minister has so far spent 34 minutes of three hours, as much as he has available. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68412	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68413	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister of the Army with my associates, I must note that you are one of the few members of the Government, who has been in the National Assembly all along. I want to point out here that our army is at war against the world's most powerful military force against NATO. During more than two and a half months of unsuspecting criminal bombing, our army came out less damaged than was damaged during those who came to power by a five-octobaric coup, on NATO's wings. Why am I pointing this out? Because during this bombing, which was by the amount of fire-exploited uranium missiles, this war was, in some ways, being wiped out and nuclear, and by the toxicity and amount of the poisons that were poured into the ground, water, or into the air as a result of the chemical oil and power plants, we can say that this was also the chemical war. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to point out here that it is embarrassing, for the dignity of a human defeating fact, and very offensive to national and patriotic feelings that we today, after more than two decades of criminal NATO bombing, bid on the number of victims, that we today do not have an exact list of dead civilians, soldiers or police officers. As for the participation of our peacekeeping forces in peacekeeping operations around the world, the position of the SRS is that we have nothing against the participation of our forces in the coverage of the UN, but we are against all those engagements of our members in the organisation of NATO or the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68415	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68416	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. Dear Ministers, officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to now, at the end of the debate, to express my great support once again and to call on my fellow Members of Parliament to vote in favour of these proposed strategies and the proposed law because their application and realization will make our country's defence and our country's security much better, much stronger, much stronger, much stronger and much more quality. I thank the ministers for your work and for all these suggestions and for everything you've done in the past few years, given the empowerment of our army, the strengthening of our position and position, and the respect of our army on the international agenda. Also, I want to tell both Serbian citizens and my colleagues that I have received a new public opinion survey in Serbia, to convey one fact that the Serbian Army and the president of the Republic of Serbia have the highest rating among Serbian citizens, over 50% of the points positive. I think it says as much as the president of the state, as much as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as much as our defence minister, Mr. Vulin, with the Chief of Staff and all co-workers and officers are working on it for the state of Serbia to be the rights, modern, strong, neutral and economically strong country. After them, by ratings, it's a church to mention. After the army and after the president. And also, this development and this empowerment of the military and everything that is yet to come comes from another fact from the research that I've had the insight to see, which is next. This is a very good news for the citizens of Serbia, very good news for our country, which is that up to six months ago in all public opinion polls, in the first place when it comes to the priorities of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to their concerns, was unemployment, they were jobs. At the top of the charts, the table, it's gone and it replaced 34% of the price of goods and services. So, the people of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia no longer care so much about the possibility of employment, parents don't worry about the possibility that their children are employed, grandparents don't care about it, and don't think about having to support their grandchildren, because there's no job, there's no firm where their grandchildren will be employed, but Serbia has this today thanks to Aleksandr Vukic. Thanks to his opening of over 150 factories in Serbia over the past few years alone. Because Panchev opened a CTF factory a few months ago where the average profit is 1,700 euros net, so that's about 2,700 euros gross. The average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 500 euros today. From 16,000 dinars, we managed to make a minimum profit of 30,000 dinars. We managed to allocate a lot more money in our budget for capital investment, for infrastructure, for highways, for our army, for the police. So for this infrastructure that will help us to make our country's position stronger, better, for Serbia, as it is, to be even more prominent and to have an even stronger position in international frameworks so that the best possible way to defend our national and state interests. Also, I want to say that this research tells us that there's also support for those who don't come here for the session, and they can accept the salary and raise the logs for arrival, so I guess they'll go around this building and see it 1.2%, 1.2%, support for the Wolf 62%. I have to tell you, this research wasn't done by Serbian agencies. It was done by American agencies. Without even a single reason to strengthen and without motive to strengthen the position of Vukic and to strengthen Serbia's position. Of course, I call on and remind you of what happened two days ago, and this is a statement still by Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic that Serbia, thanks to some black money, was working in an illegal way to withdraw the recognition of so-called. Kosovo, the least it can do is my personal opinion and I hope all of you here in the O.R. is apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and never do it again. Such as those citizens will be there by the end of April or early May, I don't know when the President of the Republic will call extraordinary parliamentary elections, they start to return when they have seen these surveys, some of them are doing research, they're starting to return to the hall, they're going to send these people's history to the dump site, who have constantly destroyed the dignity and reputation of the Republic of Serbia over the past few years. I remind our citizens and my colleagues that we have never had such politicians, who are able to do so against their country. Neither during the Progressive Government, Jovan Ristic, Stojan Novakovic and Liberals, nor during the rule of the Radicals, Nikola Pasic, nor Milan Stojadinovic. There's always been a strong opposition. There's always been a heated debate in parliament. During the presentation and exposé of Milan Stojadinovic on one draft of the budget law, one MP from Montenegro, I think his last name was Arnautovic, even drew a weapon, drew a gun on him but missed out on good luck. You remember everyone, you know, discussing the Concordian crisis. Here I go, Mr. Arsic. Just give me another 30 seconds to say something about the church. The state and the church are separate. Of course, in one wise way, we will take care of Mitrovica in Montenegro and try to protect the interests of Serbs and SPC in Montenegro, but again the same mistake is being made, we are again trying to do what we did in the 1990s, head through the wall. They better have written to the American Congress, the Senate, President Tramp to support them because they are extremely Christian politicians who have a sensitivity to church and Christianity, not to fight alone and in some ways that are not good for their own interests and the interests of the church.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68417	The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68418	Dearly respected, Milo Djukanovic's regime has been pushing into civil conflict and he hasn't done it since yesterday, he's been doing it at least since the moment he began to support NATO's aggression against the SRJ in 1999. Milo Djukanovic's regime is maintained by showing its value as an anti-Serbian policy instrument. Mil Djukanovic's regime is being held in Montenegro and in the mercy of foreigners, by running against Serbia, by always doing something against Serbs that would not even occur to the worst enemy. What's going on in Montenegro is only the result of such a policy. You can't be worried. What I'm saying and what I think we should say and do, I'm not saying on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we haven't had a meeting on that subject yet, I expect, of course, that the Government will have a clear position and that they will take it, I expect us to get out of it as soon as possible. But I'll tell you what I think we should do. First, we must do nothing to endanger the Serbs in Montenegro. Declarative support means nothing, it can only mean Mila Djukanovic to declare them traitors and say, "Here, they bring Serbia into Montenegro, they want to bring our country down through them." We can't do that. Of course, like any of you, the closest thing to that first reaction would be to end all diplomatic relations with Montenegro, as long as they don't come to their senses. But what about the Serbs in Montenegro if we do, if we cut ourselves off the possibility of influence, if we cut off our ability to communicate? We can't do that. We must not allow Serbs in Montenegro to be accused of being extended by anyone on the outside. What I think we should do and have to do is immediately invite the Montenegrin ambassador to explain to us what's going on there, to insist on all international organisations to make a statement about what's going on. When I tell international organisations, I mean from forums like the Security Council or any of the EU institutions, to NGOs, to forums dealing with human and religious rights. But, and more than that, I believe that as a state, we need to make it clear that Milo Djukanovic is a problem, not the citizens of Montenegro, and that means that Mila Djukanovic and the carriers of his regime, the state of Serbia, should consider determining a set of measures that are affecting them directly, not the citizens of Montenegro, not making it impossible to communicate with the movement, trade with the citizens of Montenegro, but to see what we can do to the holders of the regime, but to see which property can be subject to some attention from the state of Serbia. Let's see what kind of movement, travel is, let's see where the state of Serbia can directly affect regime holders who find their political purpose only in anti-Serbia and in nothing else. That's my attitude. This is not the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia, this is not the position of the president of the Republic of Serbia, this is my position as president of the Socialist Movement as part of the ruling coalition. I think we need to determine who the anti-Serbian politicians are and start treating them as individuals as a state. That's how they treat us very often, and so can we, too, that's how they forbid us to travel, and that's how they can tell us that this politician or that politician is not welcome. Perhaps it is time for us to say the same - the citizens of Montenegro, we have nothing against you and we have no feeling for you except brotherly love and solidarity, none, however you plead, all of you citizens of Montenegro. But against those who use their position only to harm Serbia and ultimately cause conflicts within Montenegro itself, against you and how we have and we need to find effective ways, state ways, allowed, legal ways, legal ways to determine who these people are and to know that Serbia recognized them. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68419	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68420	Thank you. You, Mr. Minister, said what I was about to say here yesterday, more or less alike, by having you for your words from the ruling majority get applause, and I've received attacks and insults. But whatever. It's important that in such important things and at such an important moment, we at least try to be constructive. I will not cite everything here and quote, although I have time, according to the Rules of Procedure, what he said in previous days, and Serbia's Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, and the President of the Republic, and how much this was below the severity of the moment. But, as I said yesterday, in terms of asking questions, not to the government, but to the morning, when someone says that what you just said now, with a little different words, that the state should simply react as a state, there is a whole range of diplomatic measures, then only malicious or completely ignorant, and I believe that you, or the ruling majority, are not ignorant, they can only think that it is then an invitation to war and mugging and conflict. There are reasonable diplomatic measures, an entire leprechaun, that tends to be much softer and less. I must admit that I am amazed at the exposure, and not for the first time, Mr Marinkovic, I do not agree with many others here, but his little debate, or discussion, because I think it is simply multiple below what the Serbian Parliament should say at this point, if it says anything. So, calling for an ambassador's interview, a demarch official, protest note, including the temporary withdrawal of the ambassador, and, after all, withdrawing his or her own or asking, let's say, this one to leave. There are a lot of these purely diplomatic measures, plus a government statement, and it wasn't all about this thing. It was just -- let's not accidentally tickle. No one's nagging. But you have to act like people, like MPs, like a state, especially, to keep minimum, but minimum, personal and state dignity. No more than that. In that sense, I support most of your word, Mr. Minister, and you yourself said it was in your personal name. I don't think there was any reason not to adopt Mr. Sarovic's proposal, or Col. Sarovic's proposal that the Assembly should be announced at this time, we as MPs, we don't have to wait for the government, we don't have to wait for the president, we have to say something, because our colleagues were detained there, our colleagues have been arrested, fellow MPs. On the side that they are representatives of the Serb people there, at least most of them, but anyway. In our neighborhood, in our immediate environment, someone introduces it, it's a real situation, someone beats up church dignitaries, the bishop was beaten up tonight, they were detained, the entire assembly was arrested. It just deserves an answer. I'm not gonna answer much unless it's necessary, so I'm gonna be collecting some political points here right now. I simply appeal to you and end it, not just to you as a minister, not just to you as a ruling majority, to act as a state. Well, we were withdrawing the ambassador, and not only the ambassador, all diplomatic personnel from Macedonia, from Skopje, for a much smaller matter, Alexander Vukic ordered the withdrawal of diplomatic staff, we emptied the Embassy in Skopje for one vague thing, and then they returned! Well, we can at least invest an energy demarch! As I speak here, Montenegro's ambassador should be invited to the ministry, it's the least we could do, to the foreign ministry. I see some colleagues are impatient. I'm saying, this is too important a thing and an important moment, that now something would fall back on those day-to-day political bickerings. And indeed the last line - when you react to every, often, unwise statement by an opposition representative, which hurts you, true or half-accurate or false, false, you don't wait for big decisions, you don't wait for an official position, so, come on, react to something like this, or we react to something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68421	Right on line, Minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68422	I just want to underline once again that we must do nothing that the Serbs in Montenegro will expose to the problem, expose the dangers. We must not by any chance allow Milo Djukanovic's regime to portray them as a remethyling factor, to display them as an extended arm of Serbia or anyone else. No way. The state of Serbia must react. I suggested how I think he should react. That's my attitude. But make sure that we say very loudly here too, Serbs in Montenegro, the Serbian political parties, are not extended hands of Serbia or anyone else. They represent their voters, and that's their choice, their legitimacy. There's no other way. And we, like Serbia, have the natural right, and yet the right that we foresee by strategy, to take care of Serbs, no matter where they live, especially when their rights are at stake. Of course, I would also like to add, I believe that direct communication with the Serbian Orthodox Church is needed, I mean the patriarch Irinea, because this is not just a blow to Mitrovica, this is a blow to the Serbian Orthodox Church and therefore must be watched and brought to the heart. All Serbian Orthodox Church must give a unique answer. If this passes in Montenegro, why not pass in Kosovo and Metohija? If foreigners are left with the opportunity to keep this quiet, they will keep quiet what is happening at KIM, what they wanted to do when they tried to put a fake state of Kosovo into UNESCO, with the idea that Gracanica and Decan will be Kosovo's cultural heritage tomorrow. Not the legacy of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but Kosovo's cultural heritage. You know, who doesn't have his own culture, who doesn't have his own history, who doesn't have his own tradition, he has to steal it from someone. He's got to kidnap someone. Now, we recognize that by what Milo Djukanovic is doing, we also know that by what the Shipari are doing in Kosovo. Once again to underline -- Serbs in Montenegro are loyal to their Montenegro, they love their Montenegro, they are not extended hands of anyone, they have legitimacy in their voters, and the state of Serbia is concerned and is there to take care of them. This cannot end unless the Serbs in Montenegro are satisfied with the outcome. I'd be the happiest if Milo Djukanovic could figure out what he's going through and stop doing this. If not, I have suggested what I think should be done with individuals who are carriers of anti-Serbian politics in the Mil Djukanovic regime, not according to the citizens of Montenegro. Serbs in Montenegro are not responsible even for what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68423	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. My colleagues, I gave my word to Marijan Risticevic. I don't understand your application for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68424	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the church is separate from the state, right, Mr. Karicu, but we are not separated from the church. I am appalled by the behaviour of Montenegrin authorities towards my citizens of Serbian nationality and Serbian Orthodox religion. I'm appalled by the beating up of Episcopal Methods and other believers. But you must bear in mind that Milo Djukanovic held himself in power first by fighting against the so-called. dictatorships of Slobodan Milosevic. He had the sympathy of the West and the Western powers of justice and won in the fight against Slobodan Milosevic. It was a factor that was necessary to bring down the so-called. The dictatorship of Slobodan Milosevic. Today is Milo Djukanovic, I'll remind you of the so-called. The attempt of a coup, today Milo Djukanovic, who sold the entire coast to the Russians, is allegedly a fighter against Russian influence. Now he wants to represent himself as a fighter against the Russian influence that goes through Serbia, so it's some Serb-Russian influence he's fighting. It is a severe provocation and, above all, a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. I'm surprised Dunji Mijatovic hasn't heard from her yet, she's been answering for less. This goes directly into that declaration of true religion. The right to confess is the right to be exercised on a particular property. You cannot claim the right to express your faith in the sea and in the meadow. That is why I expect, believing that our state authorities will measure their behaviour, I believe it is time for the EU to come forward, but also for a human rights commissioner named Dunja Mijatovic, who has been a critic of everything and everything. It's extremely difficult, it's hard to see these unloved scenes, it's about our people living in the state of Montenegro. We do not destroy the sovereignty and integrity of Montenegro, but Montenegro is now a divided country. It was divided by Milo Djukanovic and Milogores by their behaviour, not by Serbs. Let's not let Milo Djukanovic prove that the unrest in Montenegro has occurred under the influence of Russia and Serbia. We can't get into that trap. I believe it's hard for all of us, that it's hard for Vlasima. Imagine how difficult it is for us who haven't changed our faith or our nation. Imagine how difficult it is for us who in 2006 and our nails and our hands and our fingers, no matter how much we were opposition, tried to keep Milo Djukanovic from achieving most of the referendum, while Kostunica and his supporters were lying down, they didn't give a shit. Imagine if it hadn't been for 2006, if this leadership had run Serbia, if Montenegro had been an independent state and what would have been the reaction, if the community had survived, what reaction would be possible today? In 2006, it reduced our maneuvering skills, as far as Montenegro is concerned. It is an independent, independent state, a UN member state. We need to be measured and, again, to make sure Milo Djukanovic does not drag us into the story that, behold, he is a fighter against the Russian influence that comes through Serbia, so there, like, it all reflects on the Serbian Orthodox Church. We can't let that happen. I believe Djukanovic will fall. The road from the top always leads to the bottom. He himself decided not to come down slowly anymore, but to make a noise at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68425	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68426	Dear Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, first of all, to strongly condemn the scandalous, anti-constitutional and illegal arrest of 17 MPs of the Democratic Front by the anti-Serbian regime of Milo Djukanovic. It is clear to all of us that MPs of the opposition Democratic Front, contrary to all democratic principles and rules, have been deprived of freedom for one reason only – that MPs of the ruling coalition at the deaf time of night, at two, three o'clock in the morning, could vote the shameful and anti-civilization law on freedom of religion or, more specifically, the law on the kidnapping of the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In Montenegro, therefore, 13 years of independence has been systematically discrimination against the Serbian people. In Montenegro, European values are being violated against the Serbian people -- freedom, equality, democracy, human first, rule of law, religious freedom. All that is Serbian, both Serbian and Cyrillic and cultural workers, intellectuals, artists, church, Serb leaders, were attacked in Montenegro. In Montenegro, Serbs have no status, no status... People, and they don't want to be a national minority. Serbian language and Cyrillic have been expelled from primary and secondary schools. Serbian is not an official language in the Constitution of Montenegro, Serbian is the second-class language. In public and schools and curricula, a shameful review of history is being carried out. Serbia and the Serbian people are declared aggressors, which is scandalous and contrary to all historical facts. Known Serbian writers are kicked out of the literature textbook, both Petar Kočić and Matija Bećković and Dobrica Ćosic, Ivo Andric, Oscar Davico and many others. Modern Serbian writers in Montenegro are on the full margin. They do not have the opportunity, in fact, to publish their works in Serbian and Cyrillic. Serbs in Montenegro cannot be employed in state services. The Serbs are not in the seats of kindergarten directors, primary and secondary schools, ministries and other important places. Serbs are fully on the sidelines, under pressure, threats for 13 years. Serbia's leaders are being persecuted in Montenegro through mounted court proceedings. The authorities have filed hundreds of criminal charges against sympathisers, activists and members of the Democratic Front. The situation is unbearable. Bringing this scandalous and shameful bill of so-called. Freedom of religion is just the tip of the iceberg. I think we should do a few things. First of all, I think that our Ministry of the Interior, or Minister Dacic, should call for an interview of the ambassadors of Montenegro in Belgrade, a gentleman, seems to be named Tarzan Milosevic, and should give him a sharp and determined protest over the arrest of 17 MPs of the Democratic Front, most of whom are Serbs. A special scandal is the fact that the regime has arrested MPs who have not even removed immunity, which is a constitutional and legal category. So, every day the regime can come and say, come on, now you two MPs are going to be arrested, the three of us are going to be arrested in the afternoon, we're going to arrest you at three o'clock at night, we're going to do what we're going to do. Where are the democratic principles? Where are the European values? When we talk about this, I expect a reaction and official Podgorica. Here again, the great Serbs, the great Serbian hegemonists, attack Montenegro. No one attacks Montenegro, Serbia has strong respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Montenegro, but it cannot calmly look at this systematic discrimination and oppression of the Serb people. Montenegro can't be a happy country. Montenegro cannot be a stable state unless there is a historic agreement between the Montenegrin and Serbian people. If the Serbian language and Montenegrin language, whatever I think of it, are not official languages and are not equal. If Cyrillic and Latin are not equal in official use. So both languages and both letters. What to say to the fact that the proposal for this shameful law on freedom of religion has been brought by the government of Montenegro with twenty members. There are no Serbs among those twenty members. The government has proposed a law on regulation of relations with the SPC. In that government are the majority of the national Montenegrins, i.e. former Serbs. I respect anyone who wants to be a national Montenegrin or a Martian, has the freedom of choice, to define national and religiously as they please. In that government, we have several Croats, and Albanians, and several Bosniaks and Muslims, and now the government without any Serb has passed the bill and referred it to the assembly procedure so that this parliament, or the ruling majority in Podgorica, would bring it to three o'clock this morning, at three o'clock most of the votes, again of the national Montenegrins, i.e. the former Serbs, Bosniaks, Albanians, Croats and others, so again, not Serbs. So, no Serbs again. What kind of message is that to the Serbian people? Where are the democratic principles, where are European values? I also call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Dacic to prepare a single letter, which would list all examples of discrimination against the Serbian people in Montenegro since its independence in 2006, to send this letter to all relevant international addresses, the UN, the Council of Security, the Committee for Human Rights of the UN and the European Council and the European Parliament, but not only to the leaders of the European Parliament, all the heads of Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Commission, but not only to the European Commission, the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other relevant international organisations, the most influential countries of today's world, to appeal, to ask, to stop discrimination against the Serbian people in Montenegro, to open a fundamental dialogue and to find a lasting, fair and fair solution to the Serbian issue in Montenegro, with the support of relevant international factors. I repeat, what is a fair solution? To give the Serbian people the status of a constituent nation. So, that Montenegrin and Serbian people carry Montenegro, that they are factors of peace and stability and progress in Montenegro. Both languages and both letters are equal and defined as official in the Constitution of Montenegro. It's the only right way. Such Montenegro would be a modern, European and free country, not a country that wants to be an EU member, and does everything contrary to EU-based principles. (President: I thank you, colleague Linta. In the end, I would like once again to give strong support to all MPs of the Democratic Front, I have information that 14 were released this morning, that the three, headed by Andrija Mandic, Milan Knezevic, were detained in custody, I hope they will be released during the day. Full support for the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro, headed by the Metropolitan Amphilohi, full support and solidarity with the Serb people in Montenegro, with the desire to end this 13-year period and finally make the Serbian people their own in their country of Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68427	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68428	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry about the earlier reaction may be too harsh, but over my head, the chairman, the Serbs in downtown Belgrade, it's over my head to listen here to the various smarts of various large patriots in downtown Belgrade or here in the National Assembly, who have done nothing alive and at a time when they may have been able to do something, and today they lamentate, for God's sake, over the position of the Serb people in Montenegro. Yeah, that's where I mean that Vukadinovic, who's no longer in the O.R., came out faster and better after those nonsense he was talking about earlier. I hope he's headed to Montenegro, maybe he's in the car and headed to Montenegro. If he were in Montenegro this morning, he would already be on the border today, going there to defend the Serb people over whom false crocodile tears flow from here. The question arises as to what Serbs in Montenegro are, as we have said, the most endangered at the moment, what do they have from Serbia in downtown Belgrade? What's a man in Podgorica or Pljevi, Niksic, Beranam, anywhere today, what's there to measure patriotism with big words? Do you think I have a problem saying that the Ustasha regime of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro is working? Do you think that's my problem? It's not my problem. But what do Serbs get out of it? What do the Serbs in Montenegro have from me saying that the Ustasha regime of Milo Djukanovic, who succeeded in what didn't go after the Turks, which didn't even go after the Nazis, to kidnap Serbian churches and saints? What do the Serbs in Montenegro get out of it? I can't understand how someone can't understand that Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government, the Serbian government has extra responsibility, extra weight. We must not make any move that would make it difficult for the Serbs to be in Montenegro anyway. Is that hard to understand? Is that hard to understand? Alexander Vukic has extra weight and extra responsibility and must not allow himself the luxury that I just allowed myself, because my word does not have the same weight as his. Yes, I can say the Ustasha regime of Milo Djukanovic kidnaps Serbian churches and shrines, I can afford it, so can Mr. Linta and Marijan Risticevic. Alexander Vukic cannot allow it, because Montenegro is an independent state, unfortunately, an independent state. But this is the result of 2006, not in 2019. And what was Gjorge Vukadinovic doing in 2006? Researched in the lottery. I apologize for looking at you, I'm talking to you because you're here, but this applies to Gjorge Vukadinovic, researching for the state lottery public opinion. Is that what he was doing? What was his Kostunica doing then? Sent a free train, enabled students, the peak of Serbia's government in 2006 when the referendum was that they allowed a free train line if someone wanted to go to vote in Montenegro. So is that all they could do at that point? Well, we had so much power in 2006. What was Tadic doing? Well, nothing, of course. What was George Vukadinovic doing? Nothing. I was in Podgorica in 2006, the SRS I belonged to didn't interfere with the pre-referendum campaign. I went personally, completely personal, privately to try to make a contribution, I guess, in that youthful charge or something. And what was Gjorge Vukadinovic doing then? And here today, he complains to us and sheds crocodile tears over the position of the Serb people. So that's one highlight of hypocrisy, the chairman. That's why I apologize again for the overly severe reaction just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68429	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Miljan Damjanovic. (Alexander Markovic: There is another Serb great from the centre. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68430	Whether, Mr. Markovicu, I am a great Serb or not, I can proudly say that my roots are from ancient Herzegovina, from Montenegro beneath the Ostrog. (President: Mr Damjanović, please, according to the Rules of Procedure. I refer to Article 27 because you did not interrupt the previous speaker, Aleksandr Markovic, when he spoke to an inappropriate dictionary about other MPs. Whether Alexander Vukic has or does not have the strength or will to say what is going on in Montenegro, and you here to defend him and call Mil's Ustasha regime a complete nonsense. And since the president of the state has the right to summon these people and to ask... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68431	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. I don't think there's been a breach of Article 27. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go. (National MP Miljan Damjanovic continues his presentation. I'm sorry, Minister. I give you a warning, colleague Damjanovic. (Miljan Damjanovic: Did you give me a warning? Yes, I am. (Miljan Damjanovic: For what reason? Yes, I am, the MP who comes here. (Miljan Damjanovic: Why a reminder? What's the warning? Tell me why the warning, explain why the warning. Shame on you! You want some more? You want to kick me out? Do you want to act like Milogorians? You want to arrest me? No, you want to, but you won't have that honor. (Miljan Damjanovic: Please call security. You want to arrest me? Shame on you! Shame on you! You think you're gonna shut me up? ) The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68432	I hope that our debate, which we've had with a lot of arguments, a lot of tactics and bring to an end exactly that way, and I really don't want the Assembly to turn into any kind of conflict today. What I'm trying to say is, therefore, my attitude towards the events in Montenegro I said, there's no need to repeat it, I hope that others will plead to it. But what I'm saying is that nothing that happens and happens in Montenegro, and nothing that happens or happens in Republika Srpska, can be without consequences in Belgrade. Let's all pay attention together to what's going on, because by chance, at the same time in Montenegro and Banja Luka, almost in the same scenario, the citizens we view as ourselves, the closest, do you think that those scenes are Banjaluci, that they were painted in Podgorica? Do you think it's not done to end up in Belgrade right now? Do you think that this is not done to bring it to Belgrade at the end, to get together here, here I am now getting information that Bosko Obradovic has come gloriously in front of the Montenegrin embassy and written on the facade – Milo Thieves. There you go. Great. Now they're gonna spit on us and attack us to say you didn't secure the embassy. There, that will be, that is the height of that achievement. Then they will gather 20, 30, 50 here to attack the National Assembly that the milk, cowardly, traitorous, and then they will attack the National Assembly, and then someone will react and we will forget what happened and how it started, we will only see a Serb on a Serb, we will not see anything else. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everyone who deals with politics, please understand how serious it is, to realize that what is happening in Banja Luka, Podgorica, is not an accident and that it has to end, that they want to end in Belgrade, that they want to end conflicts between Serbs. In Banja Luka, Serbs clash in Podgorica. In the end, it must end in Belgrade. We have to do everything we can to make sure it doesn't come to that. We must do everything that is up to us not to let it spill over in Belgrade, and if it spills into Belgrade, it will spill because it is what the residents want, not because it is what Serbs want. No Serb can wish for a conflict in Belgrade, as neither Podgorica nor Banja Luka want it. But strangers and whatever they want. Please, once again, yes and in our debate today, whatever we do in the days ahead, take care of the whole of the Serbian people as our decisions apply to all Serbs, no matter where they live. Once again, what happens in Banja Luka, and subsequently in Podgorica, is done to end up with Belgrade. Let's not give it up, let's not give it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68433	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68434	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable MPs, it is good that from here comes a kind of serious concern for all events in Montenegro, because we must not be silent, but on the other hand, I will agree with my distinguished colleague Markovic, when he said that we must in no way give lessons to others, and especially not to our authorities. (Miljan Damjanovic: Don't, they'll give you a warning. Give him a warning. ) And how well our government, starting with the President of the Republic of Serbia and our diplomacy, knows the situation in Montenegro's territory as an independent state. Let us not forget the fact that just the president of the Republic of Serbia has received representatives of the Serbian people from Montenegro and that he has talked to them, that our diplomacy and how well he follows the situation in Montenegro, that the facts of the threat of the Serb people in Montenegro are known, that as regards the threat of national identity, the right to write, even now on religion, in language, to representation in the institutions of the system, to employment, let us in no way be so unserious that the government does not know it. And how well he knows. That's why it's least acceptable and completely hypocritical for a part of the opposition to share a lesson on what needs to be done. Again, we are obliged to contribute to all of this, which means solving problems in Montenegro, but this contribution must be what they are looking for all the time and how the president of the state and our diplomacy are doing, and that is to fight with peaceful means. Not one word of ours, not one move of ours, anything we do today and in the future, must be flammable, in any case be the initial chapel for what our people might say – God forbid. The president of the state has always insisted that things be resolved peacefully. We need to send a message like that from here. In Montenegro, all problems must be solved by peaceful means, but only in order to protect the interests of all peoples and peoples of the Republic of Montenegro, and among these peoples and peoples, we must consider our Serbian people. Therefore, our appeal is to get out of here a message that implies concern, but also to support the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, the President and our diplomacy, that, as we are sure, the right means will fight with legal mechanisms for our people, not only in Montenegro, but also in Republika Srpska and Kosovo and wherever the Serbs are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68435	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you under Article 27, Mr. Arsic, this is my request, you do not have to respect it, regardless of the temperamental hasty reaction of my colleague, Miljan Damjanovic, I suggest you withdraw this notice. Nothing to the Serbs in Montenegro will do us any good if we start to grab hold of our throats here, we advances with radicals. At the moment Bosko Obradovic was in front of the Montenegrin embassy in Belgrade, he wrote the car with spray – Milo thieves, Milo Vukic, etc. He now holds a press conference outside the presidency building and announced his arrival outside the National Assembly. He doesn't care about the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro, and he doesn't care about the Serbian people in Montenegro. You saw what was in Banja Luka the other day. He screened the same, which is to burn Serbian countries and get us Serbs by the throat and that, given the fact that there is only one military alliance in the environment, you all know very well who comes here and says, "Come on now, peace." So we won't achieve anything if we race here who's a bigger Serb. You are Serbs as we are, and you are Orthodox Christians, just as we are, and so do we want the good of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian people in Montenegro. But I draw your attention to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the government that is leading internal and foreign policy along with the President of the Republic. SNS MPs have full confidence in the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that they will take whatever is possible by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to protect the legitimate rights of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also the rights of the Serbian people in Montenegro, as I am convinced that what happened in the Montenegrin Assembly, the Vasseleen Patriarchate in Carigrad and the Russian Orthodox Church and all the city Orthodox churches in the world will react.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68437	Thank you. We are withdrawing the notice to Ambassador Damjanovic. We respect your suggestion and your suggestion and please return to the agenda and continue our work. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68438	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, the SRS wants to draw attention to a very complex issue regarding the military and the defence of our country, namely the true state of the field. The defense of one state depends predominantly on the size of the army, the weapons it owns and enough trained people, and most of all on the morals of the people. We know from experience that morals are most affected by living standards. as much as they are rewarded. The biggest problem with our army is the outflow of personnel, i.e. It's a number of states. Is there a gentleman's record in the last 10 years of how much professional staff has left the Army, if it isn't secret and how much damage per country Serbia's selection is getting worse every year? The response for military schools is weaker, and the army is getting older by the average, and with the old, with all due respect, the state cannot adequately defend itself. At present, our army is mostly used for parades and honors, while the basic problem that should be seriously addressed is leaving, i.e. leaving the expert staff, as I said. In particular, the status of soldiers and sub-offices, the foundation of each army, should be improved, especially their career advancement, which has been completely halted for decades, i.e. that it is harder to become a flag than a general. Then what can motivate these people more than career advancement? What is our status as members of the wars? Both active military and retired, these people have no benefits, not in any segment of life, not in progress, not in terms of early retirement, housing, treatment and other. It's not just the generals and the colonels that make up the army. We won't hear from them that the situation in the army is bad and at what level their morals are. Someone once said, "Whoever doesn't have his own army will pay someone else's salary." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68439	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68440	The situation in Serbia's military is incomparably better than it was in 2012, when Aleksandar Vukic became defence minister, incomparably better. You can see that from material indicators, numerical indicators, how many weapons, what weapons. Well, when did we have the latest and most modern means? When could we boast that we bought four MI-35 helicopters, the great, the best in the world in our class? When were we able to boast that the army had won five H-145M helicopters the best in its class, five new MI-17s? When were we able to boast of such a refurbished technique? When were we able to boast of the introduction of "Norom" in arms? When were we able to boast that our soldier had two new sets of uniforms, plus an old one? When were we able to boast that our hulls and outside the hull were raised to the maximum level? When were we able to boast and raise our wages so much? Here, I had a chance to read your salary here, when they were the biggest in 2008, so today. So you see that things are going better. The fact is, it's not enough that no one can slow it down. The fact is, our soldier deserves more. The fact is, every officer deserves more. But if it wasn't for that brave policy of Alexander Vukic in 2014, we wouldn't have this, we wouldn't have anything left, we wouldn't be able to buy this either. Do you know how much a helicopter costs? How much is a remont tank? The army's an expensive thing! And it needs to be expensive because freedom is even more expensive, and freedom is the most expensive. Of course the military deserves it, but you have to keep an eye on the entire system we're re-establishing. The army is a system, care. Never, not even in JNA time, did these officers have more salaries than their fellow civilians. They're people with college education, let's compare them to engineers, compare them to doctors, and then they didn't have salaries, which were more than them, but they had a system that cared about them. Well, they had the opportunity for better treatment and for their families, so they had the opportunity to get an apartment, so they had the opportunity to rest in military facilities, so they were taken care of and cared for. It's all destroyed, planned and deliberate. Now we're getting it back. Here's the housing process. Well, that hasn't been done since Titus's time. Every year, over 2,000 military members and family members go to some of the facilities for rest and recreation owned by the Serbian Army, on the cost of Serbia's Army. We've introduced mandatory security for all members of the Army, Ministry of Defense, 24/7, whatever they're doing and happening to them. We introduced solidarity aid when a child is born and, of course, solidarity aid, far away, in case of death, in case of a serious illness. It's all things that bring back the system, but it'll take time, a lot of denial, a lot of work. What is more important, perhaps of all things, is the patriotism that all members of the army carry inside themselves and who was defended, who was punished. Now they know that they can love their country and show it openly and that they will not be punished for it, but rewarded and that no resident will come to tell them what they will look like, what acts they will bear, who they will fight for, who they will fight for, who they will live for. Now, that's another big and important change, but just one word. System. We're getting the system back! It's the essence of the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68441	Thank you. The word is Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68442	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, today, when we are discussing the Law on the Army of Serbia, in particular, I would really like to highlight the situation in which the dedicated industry is today and to underline the successes with which the factories of the dedicated industry are operating today. In particular, in Tristenik, the plant of the dedicated industry was doing negatively, it was almost bankrupt, and I really have to point out the numbers that will show the negligence of those to whom citizens were at the time shown confidence. Back then, this factory was on its knees, and the workers were getting 20% of the salary they were making hard. The accounts of the dedicated industry were blocked by 20 million dinars. They owed over 50 million dinars for electricity alone. Not to mention that the workers worked in the halls, which they sneezed, in which there was no heating. Well, the obituaries haven't been paid since 2008. In such a situation, we found the factories of the dedicated industry, but by bringing the SNS to power, the situation had changed completely, the responsibility and commitment we had joined our industry, which we wanted to recover. Today, we are proud to say that the purpose of Triestenik employs 710 workers, that a fully rehabilitated factory has, in agreement with workers, made a decision not to increase wages from the money they earned, but to invest in the purchase of new machines, so they have not bought nine new machines out of their own resources, so they have no credibility, so they have bought as many as nine new machines. With the support of the state, they acquired three-and-a-half million euros, additionally equipped the Machine Park, so that the machines no longer date back to 1985, but we can proudly say that new halls and new hardware were equipped. More than 30 million dinars have been invested only in working conditions for our workers, as well as in security, and we are proud to say that in a short time we have significantly improved the conditions in which workers work, but we have also provided stable contracts that will provide security for these workers. The purpose of Triestenik is one real impulse to develop the economy and indeed our pride and not only the Trieste, but also the entire county and the whole of Serbia, and we trust that by coming to the new highway of the Moravian Corridor, it will further expand its work and capacity, because our goal is to employ young people, to train them through dual education to do these jobs better and to stay in their own regions. What I want to particularly underline is this difference between our factories and our workers, according to our economy, 2008, 2010 and today. No wonder all these people lost citizens' trust when you compare these numbers that really don't lie and show how much we did in a very short time, but with one thought-out, responsible policy, strategy and with the political will to move the economy, not to shut down and the factories collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68443	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68444	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, respected representatives of the Serbian Army, someone today said the Serbian Army serves only for parades. Of course, the military and the state organizes military parades, and that's where part of what our military force has. The military parades have another purpose, which is to bring our people closer to communicating with their army, to get acquainted with it, to feel proud of what the army has and what the military has to do with the achievements that the state has managed to make with the improvements for the standard of our army. But it is an insult to the military to say, especially to the Army of Serbia, that it only serves as a parade if we know what challenges we face in our region and if we know what problem he had in KIM, then we know that today is a secure Serbia, and peaceful and stable, not because anyone is being threatened or threatened by anyone in any way, but because he has a stable economy, stable finances, resulting in better equipment and the military, the police, which is why today the state of Serbia is much safer and much more stable than it was ten or fifteen years ago, when our tanks, the rockets were melted into the "Smederevo Irons", then our country was open to attack and endanger anyone. Today, the Serbian Army is not an aggressor, but a deterring factor for all those who would aim at endangering any member of the Serb people or territory of the Republic of Serbia in any way and anywhere. Today, the Serbian Army is a guarantee of stability, peace and security for every man living in the Republic of Serbia and for every Serb wherever he lives. Serbia's military today prides itself on all its citizens because they see security and see it as a guarantee of peace. They see it as a guarantee of certain peace for our country and for our citizens. The more stable and better the security system, the more orderly the army, the more equipped the police, the more equipped the army, the safer the country. Well, when you have security, you have legal certainty, a good economy, stable finance, then you have people who want to stay in that country, you have people who want to have a baby in that country, you have people who like to go to the military, they don't run away from the military, you have more and more people who sign up for voluntary military service. These are all great successes and the Ministry of Defence, but above all that policy that today in Serbia is personified and led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68445	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68446	Thank you, Your Honor. The importance of this law and, in general, of the Ministry of Defence, especially at times like this, is too much to say, but I would only refer to the prior exposure of one of the colleagues who said that if we love some people, there should be an appointment of sessions about them. I don't think so, because our commander-in-chief, Mr. Vukic, and the leaders around him who run this country have shown enough in the past few years what they've done. Not now would those of the Alliance for Serbia fight by force come to power, but would honestly go to the polls and fight at least to cross the censorship, but aware that by 2012, they were only working robbery, that they had devastated the state, that they were working to harm this people, they had no courage to do so. There, and today's attempt by Mr. Obradovic, to call him a gentleman, but he certainly did not, because we are aware of what he was doing in this assembly. After all, you were one of the women who suffered his and his insults and violent behaviour, but they are judging citizens and will show if in a few months' time in the elections and drive them all to a political dump, so that Serbia has decided with whom and how it wants to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68447	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68448	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I quoted Kennedy and today I will do it again. It seems to me that he said: victory has a thousand fathers; defeat is an orphan. We found this orphaned in 2012 and 2013. A completely broken, decapitated, politically decapitated state, broken, without a chance for the present and future generations. It was supposed to raise that country. The issue of the army and the strong army directly binds to the state of our economy. If a certain percentage of GDP is allocated to the military, I suggest that in future, from each percentage of growth, a certain portion goes to obtain new techniques. I want to, and I believe in your beliefs, the modernly equipped army with the most modern weapon. We don't have kids to throw, but it's easier to bear the loss of technique than losing a child. I want us to have that kind of economy that you can have the most modern drones, planes, rocket systems, whether they're Chinese, Russian production, whether they're S-300, S-400 and so on, that we have a strong air force and that we can defend ourselves from others and that we can protect ourselves from the weaker and that we can protect our people. We have to make that money, so don't just talk about how we should have a strong army. We turn to work, not to spend time on the couch, but to work, to earn more and to have more money for roads, investment, economy and of course for the military, because the military will share the fate of our economy. If we have enough money for technique, if we modernly train our army, then there's nothing to be afraid of. The former regime destroyed the economy, destroying the army parallel to the economy. We have to do the opposite. He says a saying – it is not right to turn swords into plowshares, nor to melt all plows into swords. We must have enough plows and swords, so that what the plow earns, the sword can defend. That is why I welcome the efforts of the state leadership, the efforts of the MPs to raise Serbia's economy, because it is not important for the state of Serbia to just rule. It's even more important for this country to build, to build an economy to build up, to strengthen the economy. If our economy is strong, we will have enough money to equip our army and that the one now strong enough in the region is even stronger and that it can defend the vital national and state interests of the Serbian state. No wonder there are attempts to pull Serbia back under water again, to get our heads under the water. Serbia is economically stronger. Serbia will dominate economically if we are smart and do not fall for provocations, Serbia will progress. When it's economically advanced, they all know that nothing can stop it. Many who have talked about Great Serbia should know that Greater Serbia is the one that is great inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68449	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68450	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, respected MPs, Serbia is a military neutral country. It's something specific to Serbian history, which is a property of a Serb military being. Throughout history, we've had enough wars. It's good to strive for military neutrality. Serbia was and will be committed to peace and justice. Through her tumultuous history, unfortunately, she got to know all the horrors of war well. Serbs as a perilous people, who alone were struck by dark ideologies, are a people who are proud of their resistance and the fight against these all forces. That's why military neutrality is a position with perspective. Serbia is working with everyone and we want the best possible relations because of the future of our citizens. Our country monitors environmental changes and adapts its security policy to protect its national interests in the best way possible. Peace and stability are our country's vital interests. For the whole region, stability and peace are important, and everything is doing better for our people's future. The policy of strong and successful and military neutral Serbia is the policy we advocate. The defence strategy sets out security challenges, but also measures to overcome these challenges. Serbia has learned the price of freedom. By practicing with others and learning from them, we gain new experiences and knowledge. We're so ready to keep the peace. Serbia has changed. Serbia has made progress. It's much stronger today. The Serbian army is the best guarantee of a free, independent and secure Serbia. These are the values we fight for and the values we stand for. Only a stable and strong Serbia is the best guarantee for the protection of all Serbs, as well as security and peace in the Balkans. It is therefore important to equip the army to safeguard the country's military neutrality. To the pride of all of us, our army has progressed. That's why investment in the military is important, because if we have a better military and a better national security system, we'll have a more stable and safer country. A stable and safe country attracts investment. It is a factor in stability, strengthening the economy and other social resources, to protect our freedom values and traditions. That's why the army has to be stronger, it has to be stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68451	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68452	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, I want to take the opportunity to point out that investing in the military, investing in every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and that this is very important and that the goal of our government and your Ministry of Defence is absolutely clear, and this is investment in equipment and weapons. In this way we are absolutely directly strengthening our army, and besides, improving the quality of life of members of the Serbian Army and not only members of professional soldiers, or, as we have stated there, by the rank of officers, captains and others, but also by their family members, which is very important. Also resolving housing issues, both members of the Serbian Army and their members. The salary in December of this year was increased by 9%, together with all members of the military service, as well as representatives of the interior ministry, as well as members of the defence ministry and members of the BIA. Also, we can boast that some 8,000 apartments are planned for the Serbian Army. Also, we can boast of the exact results, that we can deal with about 20 housing issues per month for soldiers, for members of the Serbian Army. Also, what's very commendable is that our soldiers are now 24 hours, seven days a week, secure, anywhere and anything that happens to them. So their health is certainly at its maximum. Also, our government and the President of the Republic, of course, the Ministry of Defence, is thinking about future generations, by investing significant funds in military education. We're opening new departments, which is very important, because we're thinking about the needs of the army for the future. Also, we invest in opening new orientations. This will create a new vessel for rejuvenation of the army. Also, I can't help but point out that we've invested a significant amount of money in the reconstruction of boarding school for the Military High School and also for the Military Academy. I would also say that this law is certainly commendable and that it certainly needs to be passed this law, because it clearly sets out some of the conditions that we need to meet for the easier handling of the army, too, and for better functioning of the army, and in the end, certainly, for improving and functional and operational capabilities of the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68453	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68454	Here, friends and comrades, let me say something about all these problems. I wouldn't want to repeat myself and say what others said. I want to say that when we talk about the military and the state of the army, we need to know where we were 10 years ago and what the situation was and that this situation where we are today, where the army is, is a major improvement. No one can argue with that. But we have to move on and we have to move faster. What would I say nobody said? Ministers, in rebuilding, in strengthening the army, the army, should use as many domestic capacities as you have done, as you do in Priboj in "FAP". And then, when you're in, when you're looking for that domestic market, first of all, you're looking for where the owner of the state is, where no ownership relations have been solved yet. So, step up our capacity, because only a strong economy can create a strong army. We are now strong enough to be independent. Serbia's future is to be independent. Serbia's future is that it will be an EU candidate as long as possible. That's my opinion. I have the right to my opinion. On the other hand, I'm listening here, everyone's suggesting something. We need to know that we know a lot, but we don't know much. So, the ones up at the top know a lot more. We must look and that is enough to ask that Serbia must react. How will he react? That's what our president knows best. That's what the foreign minister knows. What I think Milo Djukanovic is doing is actually doing the West. So it's an organized game where Milo has to listen to what the West does. And as long as he's interesting to the West, he'll be in that position and we need to keep that in mind. So he's just a toy in their hands. And this is a great provocation that we can't get into and where we need to be aware that relationships in the world are very complicated. I am confident and confident that our leadership, that our president will surely take the right stance and that what you said, we will protect, above all, the interests of the Serbian people in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68455	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68456	Thank you. This amendment, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army, proposed the erasure of Article 8(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In principle, in the course of the debate, the SRS' position on the Yugoslav Army was clearly stated. The amendment is in line with the position of the SRS, and the SRS also advocates the organisation of the military as a professional service, allowing its dependence on any political party, in addition, to prevent active officers, sub-offices from being party-organised or engaged. Countries that did not pay enough attention to the defense were very easily defeated and enslaved in the moments of attack on their territory. One of the most important components of defense, along with equipment, is the care and development of patriotic feelings among members of the military and the people in general. The history of the Serbian people is full of examples of patriotic sacrifice and personal sacrifice in defending Serbia. Serbia's military must be trained to successfully carry out all assigned tasks and carry out combat facts and other accompanying activities under the conditions of war and armed combat. This implies a unique concept and doctrine of war as a sort of programme of action of the Serbian state. The military and all responsible state institutions must act continuously to defend Serbia and protect citizens. This operation also involves the engagement of all development systems of information, alarming, protection and care, and specialised forces and evacuation of people and resources and goods. Serbia cannot be militaryly neutral, because no one can guarantee us. The neutrality depends not on us, but on the great forces, and the SRS categorically opposes Serbia's entry into NATO pact, which bomb us ruthlessly, not choosing goals. The Serbian Radical Party is seeking to join the organisation of a collective security contract and to enable the formation of a Russian military base on the country's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68457	Thank you. You've wasted your time. You only have two minutes for the amendments. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68458	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Mr. Vulin, honored guests of the Department of Defense, esteemed Members of the People, I would like to speak with regard to this Article 8 in particular, or Chapter 7. – Obligation to serve in the Serbian Army after schooling. I think we were left unspeakable when we talked about the admission of professional soldiers. As a doctor, I'd like to talk about the admission of professional soldiers to the Sanitary Service. Voluntary military service lasted six months. For the first month and a half professional soldiers of the Sanitary Service are undergoing general military training in one of the training centres – Sombor, Valjevo, Leskovac, followed by a month and a half of the special service for the sanity service in the Niš military training unit. After completing training in Nis, soldiers are directed three months to one of the military health institutions for specific training, and these are: VMA, Nis Military Hospital, VMC Novi Sad, VMC Belgrade, to be fully trained to work in the military health system. After the end of the voluntary service of the military, interested professional soldiers, general medical technicians, pediatrician, gynaecological and obstetric direction, laboratory technicians and pharmaceutical technicians will be allowed to join the service of military health institutions in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, as well as VMA. Why was I saying this? My particular question, if you can answer me, dear Minister, you said we didn't have any sub-office schools, you're planning to open a sub-office school, do you plan to open a high-sanitary military school that used to operate in Novi Sad? If you can answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68459	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68460	It is precisely this strategy that results from the Serbian Army organisation in the coming period. I expect next year that the Serbian Army will come up with a new school plan, which is under way. In the first place, the military must tell us what it needs and tell us exactly what profiles it needs, in which number it needs the proper profiles, the proper professional equipment. We're definitely planning on starting a school for the officers. Now, let's see if we can get medical, see if there's any other services. There used to be, say, middle music for soldiers. Now she's gone, and now it's just a question to what extent we can bring it out, who's interested, what are the real needs of the army. Thank you for your interest and for reminding me that it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68461	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68462	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law. I asked the amendment to delete the 4th position of this member. You know the position of the SRS regarding the military neutrality you're talking about and who you're after. It is clear to everyone that in the world as we have today, there cannot be a word of military neutrality. Neutrals can only be those countries that have a powerful army, such as China. They can talk about military neutrality, because they are able to guarantee their own safety. Small countries, like Serbia, can't do that anyway. That's why we have to stay there or here. There's a criminal NATO pact on one side, which has caused us a lot of trouble and trouble. The memories of their crimes are still fresh and the consequences of it will be long and long. That's why the only way out is where our traditional friends are and we all know it's Russia. For these reasons, Serbia should immediately become a member of the ODKB. In this way, we would preserve our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, protect ourselves from potential enemy attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68463	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68464	Thank you. Honored President, Honored Minister, Article 8. The bill concerns one of the very important missions of the Serbian Army, which is participation in multinational operations. I must point out that the Serbian Army is currently participating in nine multinational operations, five within the UN and four within the EU. Also, I must point out that the Serbian Army is presenting, in the best possible way, the Republic of Serbia and, of course, all the training, all the knowledge, all the skills and everything that is best and belongs to the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, during their participation in peace operations, they gain additional knowledge, additional experience and, of course, that what they value in Serbia's return to Serbia is their knowledge and their experience, but I have to say one more thing. The commander-in-chief of the Republika Srpska Army, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, first began to mark the day of remembrance of those brave soldiers who were in Kosharam, who defended our country from the Cypriot terrorists, and this year the team marked 20 years of battle in Kosaram. Also, our president and commander-in-chief of the Republic of Serbia's Army mark 20 years of memory of one of our greatest tragedies in the 20th century, which is the criminal NATO bombing and killing 2.5 thousand citizens, including 79 children. Our president and commander-in-chief first introduced...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68465	Thank you. You've wasted your time from the parliamentary group. Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that the minister could not hear this, but I must say that the reactions of the regime in Belgrade, in connection with what is happening, which we had the opportunity to see last night and this morning in Montenegro, are mild and insufficient and do not show that the regime in Belgrade is showing interest in the position of the Serb community in Montenegro. Due to less important things, because of statements, because of the announcements of certain authorities in Sarajevo, Zagreb or elsewhere here, extraordinary conferences, reactions, meetings, miracles were convened, and today, in the process of kidnapping all Serbian in Montenegro, after what we had had the opportunity to see in the creation of that nation, the Montenegrin, Montenegrin language, has now hit the SPC. I remind you that the SPC was the foundation of our survival in times of Turkish slavery. The Serbian Orthodox Church is much older than Montenegro. If it hadn't been for the SPC, our people might have disappeared in those centuries of slavery. I'm going to remind you of those scandals that we've had the opportunity to watch, and when it's completely invented some affair with an alleged Russian spy, there's been tried to do something against Russia from Belgrade. On the same day that video appeared, a National Security Council session was called. All the media transmitted it. It was a question of maximum, essential interest in the security of our country, our people, even though it was an event that happened a year ago, and only today did we see the video. On that day when a National Security Council session was called, only a public video came out, a video of events a year ago, and everything rose in Serbia to its feet because of our security that was allegedly at risk. This happened last night. If there is no more serious reaction to what is happening now in Montenegro, you will thus show that all your announcements about this alleged ageing for Serbs, wherever they live, are just one dead letter on paper, that they serve you only for marketing purposes, that they serve you for pre-election purposes. In contrast, this is what you, Mr. Minister, have been talking about here for the past few days with the reactions and actions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't say we should start the tanks and lift the planes and go to Montenegro, but we should, exactly what you were talking about, in every way and diplomatic channels to try to protect the Serbian people in Montenegro. It is easy to say that Tadic is a traitor, that Kostunica is a traitor and that they left Montenegro to declare independence, that they did nothing when Kosovo declared independence, etc. But by inaction, you show that you are the same as them. By your inaction, without your reactions, you show that there is no difference between you. What does the Government of the Republic of Serbia need to do and do it urgently? He's supposed to be looking for a UN Security Council session on this matter. So Montenegro is facing civil war today. Since 2006, an accelerated process of depletion has been going on. So, creating a Montenegrin nation, language, and now we see churches, first on the freedom of religion, and second on private property. So, not only does this have to do with the Serbian people and their collective identity, but it is also against the law. So, we now see that the security of the Serbs living in Montenegro, who remain in addition to all the pressures, besides persecution, besides all the anti-Serbian hysteria that the government in Montenegro continues to have on the list more than 30%, not to mention that there are more than 50% of them who still say that they write and express themselves in Serbian, and that there are even many more who are believers, those Orthodox who are SPC. He can't go through this without reaction. You have made statements of some irrelevant figures in Croatia, some irrelevant figures in Sarajevo, I mean politically irrelevant, giving statements, holding press conferences, and not talking about all the pointless reasons besides those justified, held sessions of the National Security Council. This may be in addition to trying to form an army of Kosovo and those incurring ROSU to northern Kosovo, the immediate greatest threat to the security of our people in your term in the last seven years. This issue is one of the most important issues in the entire term, so throughout this entire period of time, you are in power. Don't do that at the expense of diplomatic relations, respect for Montenegro's independence and sovereignty, you're doing something that goes in favor of an open anti-Serbian state. Montenegro is, unfortunately, an anti-Serbian state today. Montenegro is not our friendly state. Who doesn't understand? Let's show some concern for the Serbian people living in Montenegro and ask for a session of the UN Security Council on the matter. Point out the violation of the rights of Serbs in Montenegro not only on the issue of freedom of religion and private property and property of the SPC, but also on everything that happened in Montenegro, the persecution of Serbs. Today, Serbs cannot be employed in the public sector in Montenegro, there are fewer than 7%. Instead of Serbian, some native language is taught. Wherever, whoever says to himself that the Serb is being shown whether in public, whether at work, anywhere in Montenegro. Let's not talk about it being internal then things, because if you really think it's the inner things of Montenegro, that Serbia can't interfere, then get it out of your strategy, then you don't care about the Serbian people, wherever they live. It's in collegiate with what you're talking about. We've heard from you tracts about the historical exploits of Vukic for the past seven years, how he did this, how he did it for the first time in history or the best in history, the formulations are mostly like that. Despite such a brilliant, historic Vukic, the world's best today, unfortunately, all this is going on in Montenegro without a response from the state of Serbia. It can't be a reaction - I'm not happy about it, but what to do. Here's exactly what to do - look for a session of the UN Security Council. At the highest level raise this issue, do everything you can to protect the Serb people in Montenegro from persecution. It may unfortunately happen to us, if this continues, if it escalates this conflict now in Montenegro a new 17th of March. What are you going to do then? Are you going to say it's beyond the border then? The internal issue of the state of Montenegro? If you really do, and if you really want to respect what you're talking about, I don't see any reason why you don't listen to the SRS appeal and it's a question of protecting the Serb community in Montenegro from the top priority and showing, when you say so, and in part that it is really different from those who were in your previous position, from earlier regimes, from the Democrats and these and those, etc. We invite you to do everything you can to help the Serbs in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68467	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68468	Just for the sake of informing all our citizens to say that before anyone here appealed, mentioned the Security Council, I said so. So, I'm, maybe you weren't there. So, I said it was my position and I expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come up with its position as soon as possible and what it can and should do, to address the Security Council, to be realistic when it comes to it. Do you know who the chairman of the Security Council is now in December? United States. Just so we know. I think we should address the Security Council, not just the Security Council. Once again, I want to say that I believe this question must be resolved with the consent of the SPC. I don't mean one part of the SPC, but I mean the patriarch and the SPC in general, because this will not be an attack on one part of the SPC, but on the church everywhere, that it must be done too, and I think it is necessary to underline what the regime bearers in Montenegro are towards which Serbia needs to be determined in terms of, I don't like that word because the Serbian people have suffered a lot of sanctions and I don't like it when they're spoken, but to determine ourselves according to their financial, political interests in Serbia, where we can. Of course I think we should call their ambassador to explain to us what's going on here, to continue diplomatic communication. Let us once again underline and I am sure that you will give me support for what I am saying, Serbs in Montenegro and their political parties are not extended hands of anyone, do not act or work on behalf of anyone other than their constituents. Do not even give them the chance to mark Milo Djukanovic and their regime as some intrinsic elements that cause problems in Montenegro, and in Serbia's interest, as if it were in Serbia's interest to have a riot in Montenegro. No way. Everyone here who deals with politics must be aware that we have to make sure we don't hurt them, so that the Serbs are not found guilty of anything. It is undeniable that every Serb believes that the SPC must not and cannot be owned by any state, that no one can take it from the state and take it from it. It is undeniable, but only once again to make sure that we do not accidentally give them the opportunity to be questioned by the Montenegrin government, that Milo Djukanovic, whom I personally believe should be the persona non grata and that his property and associated persons must be examined here in Serbia, that he must not get the opportunity and opportunity to mark Serbs as unfair to his country, to do something against his country and that they are guilty of such a thing. We can't possibly do that. As we all must understand that what is happening in Banja Luka, so what is happening in Podgorica is not an accident, that it is done at the same time and that we must not allow it to end in Belgrade, which is the plan, which is the goal. You know, to call His name -- when you break your body's head, it's a pain in the ass. It's an idea for Belgrade to be set on fire, and then there won't be anyone to ask, or to say what I'm saying now and what you're saying, to challenge conflicts between Serbs, to bring here 50 or whatever they're called who's going to attack their assembly and we'll forget what we've been fighting about. It will only start the continuity of the conflict and will only say -- here, Serbs are fighting everywhere, fighting with the brothers, and all the conflicts, what Stjepan Mesic would say, will end with conflicts among Serbs. We can't let that happen. I said what I thought was supposed to be done. The government of the Republic of Serbia is sure to make the right decisions and of course it will not go without a reaction, as it has never gone without a reaction. We have no reason to break anything over our knees. Here, I've said what I think. I am a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I will represent that opinion wherever I can and however I can, but I only ask everyone, just so much, that we trust our country and make sure that whatever we do we don't allow Milo Djukanovic's regime to blame the Serbs for anything. The easiest, most sincerely I would break diplomatic relations with Montenegro, but what about the Serbs down there, I cannot allow it, I cannot allow it. So, once again, I ask that we all take care of this together just so we don't hurt them, and once again I will underline, solve the problem first in consultation with the Patriarch, with the SPC, make sure that there is no conflict between the Serbs and that certain anti-Serbian policy holders at the head of Milo Djukanovic, who should be properly shown, make it difficult for them both to move and travel and deal with politics and, of course, to disable the availability of assets in a country that they hate so much and that they attack so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68469	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68470	I didn't ask for the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to discuss it if possible. (President: There is no more time. There's no more time. Then on Article 27, that you should look after the application of this Rules of Procedure and direct our discussions precisely for the sake of the well-being of the Serbian people, not the Serb community, of the Serb people living in Montenegro, so that this does not come up here with some unkind debates and the conflict of Serbian MPs with Serbian MPs, because we are here in the hall right now. Together, we want both Montenegro and our people who today are not a bit easy. I don't want anyone to go public to suspect that there's nothing to say here in this House or in our country in the Serbian government. That's not true. The government of the Republic and we as MPs of the ruling majority could say a lot about what was going on in the parliament of the Republic of Montenegro tonight. Would our words, emotional words help someone in Montenegro, at this point, I don't think so. I don't think so. They would discuss it too emotionally, the hard words would be heard and the plan of the one who made it all blurry. And it is no accident that this is happening these days in Republika Srpska, that Serbs are arguing with Serbs and it is not by chance what happened yesterday in Montenegro, so let's be a little wise and calm and not allow us to argue here, argue and share on those who love Montenegro more or less, or more or less support the Serbian people and the SPC in Montenegro. What we are tasked with here in parliament, and what no one has yet said and what I want to draw attention to, is that at this point in Montenegro's prison there are 18 MPs, 18 MPs of the Democratic Front who have parliamentary immunity and who are arrested in the Montenegrin Parliament building. Our mission is here, as their colleagues, to ask to be released as soon as possible. I don't know what you're throwing, but it's not funny, it's not funny. This is a very serious thing. Eighteen MPs, if you want to talk about Serbs, then Serbian MPs representing the citizens of Serbia in Montenegro, who voted in favour of them and their list, are now in jail. Yesterday, they were brutally arrested and taken to prison in Montenegro. They have parliamentary immunity. We should fight for democracy, we should fight for their freedom, so that they can continue to represent the interests of citizens of the Republic of Montenegro belonging to the Serb people. That is our task, and it is my appeal to give them support and to appeal from this place to the President of the Republic of Montenegro to do everything possible for them to be released. And the rest of what I think about what happened yesterday in Montenegro for the benefit of Serbs living there and our relations, not with the regime, do not relate to current regimes anywhere in the world, make good relations with our countries in the environment. Whoever's in power, whether we like it or not, we don't have to look for a solution to being a little youthful, a little emotional that we think we're going to solve something if we say now, let's all go now and now we're going to solve this problem, we're going to raise an army and I don't know what we're going to do. Well, whoever's clouded this place and sometimes in the not so distant past, who's trying to do it again in the region that's become both politically and economically stable after a long time, he's going to give us all medals, if we kill each other now and we go after each other. Now, that's why you have this silence, and that's why we're trying with you guys who are younger, who have a little more hot blood than the ones that we've been through in the past, let's just say, just slowly, just wisely, just responsibly. I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia knows what it is doing at this time and that in the right way, we will, in the right way, not in a Hucom, Noise, Emotions help the Serbian people and SPC wherever they are, and these days in Montenegro. So I ask that we jointly appeal that MPs, representatives of the Serbian people in Montenegro be released to freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68471	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68472	I don't really know if anything we say here today will help the Serbs in Montenegro, I know that ignoring them won't do them any good. That's for sure. As for parliamentary immunity there, it's as if in a mob criminal state, some parliamentary immunity means something. I guess we could have expected that, and we know what happened, and we know what happened to that alleged coup, when it was the election of that coup, and so on. At the time, it seems to me that there was also a bad reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which instead of the Serbs who were falsely accused of attempted coup, Russia's involvement, etc. Instead of supporting the Serbs, I will give you everything you need. As for those of us today that we are afraid to connect them with Serbia, with the regime in Belgrade, these Serbs who are in the Montenegrin Parliament, Alexander Vukic first put them on that bus and always takes them everywhere in the front row and brought Christmas Eve to the presidency building last Christmas. In this way, he must have contributed much more to them being considered to be those who have support from Belgrade than I am in discussions in the Assembly. I'm not against it, I support it, but don't play it over that crazy one now. We had and the fact is, on much less insignificant statements, announcements, statements, whatever, we had National Security Council sessions on this matter, we were silent about this. It doesn't matter that America is the chairman of the Security Council. We should be looking for it, it should be our initiative, it may not be on the agenda, but we should advocate it and demonstrate our intention and if we are not in any condition, at least to support the Serbs who are being persecuted in Montenegro today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68473	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68474	Thank you, Chairman. I agree largely with what Mrs. Gojkovic said, but the trouble is that she probably because of the various obligations, she wasn't here in the O.R., none of us can be around all the time, and that's mean when someone's not being hunted, and then she gets up, so it's called. So, from what I understand, there's no more time on the side of the SNS parliamentary group, which is why I'm deliberately mentioning it, so it can respond based on replication. Better than misusing the Rules of Procedure. What she did not hear or see Mrs Gojkovic, it is that a good part of the debate of her colleagues from the ruling majority had just been against and passed by the intensity she was talking about here, and also the minister, anyway. So I agree that we should not give cause and basis for someone to abuse our reactions and our words. I always try to talk like that. But when he's in a bad mood, whatever you say, whatever you do, someone's always gonna use it, change it, fake it a little bit, stretch it a little bit, and then use it. I mean, when you're dealing with the regime, and now I'm talking about the regime in Montenegro, but that applies to each and every one of us on a political stage, there's always a reason to make a drama or turn something against the intensity and intent of whoever was talking. I'm here very often an example of exactly that kind of abuse. The discussions of colleagues from the ruling majority, at this important moment, at this sensitive moment, are just an example of how they are wrinkled and how each other is going to conflict within Serbian. The most constructive discussion, the consensus, one part I went ahead, one part on the line of what was said here, and Mr. Vulin, the minister, were welcomed to the knife. So, welcome to the knife, with such disqualifications, and we are talking about unity, we are talking about a common Serbian, national and state attitude towards such an important and sensitive issue, no, here, unfortunately, most people care, or one good part of the MPs and political actors only care about collecting political points, care about protecting the ruling party's ratings and president of the Republic, not about the interests of the Serbian citizens and the interests of the Serbs in Montenegro. Because otherwise, you wouldn't have missed your reaction. Not as a colleague said for a moment, in terms of waving, hitting war drums and running tanks, but simply making the state react in a way that it can react. The proposal, very specifically, I support this proposal, not only do I know in what form to be excluded, at least when it comes to our fellow Members. That's exactly what I was saying, Mrs. Gojkovic. I mentioned that our colleagues are sitting in prison, although I thought there were three of them right now, only three of them, but it's not just, and one of them is, it's a lot. The others were released from custody. So, everyone's been detained, three of them are detained, including Mr. Andrija Mandic, but whoever it is. So I think the least we can do is find a form and a formula to react, to support our colleagues and to seek their immediate release. Secondly, what is the problem for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to address, say, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, international institutions? The Security Council is not the only institution where this can be discussed. These are all logical, normal, expected measures and suggestions. Maybe they're good. Maybe not. I think the reaction to our political summit was inadequate and weak. Not enough. Maybe I'm wrong, but let it be said. Is it possible to say that here, and that whoever says it or I don't have polyvados of insults, subjects that have no connection, and believe that I could, very easily, be more malicious, now here to show you photos of the gentleman, the closest, most difficult hugs of Mr. Djukanovic, Mr. Vukic with Mohamed Dalan and some suspicious faces from the BOLO. But I could do things. Don't contribute. It's no use to us, dear colleagues. But you're really doing it. Or at least some of you do it all the time. In that sense, come on, or we're going to be constructive, but then really be constructive, if we're not going to poke Serbs into Serbs and make an atmosphere that someone will then use, someone from the country or someone out of the country, then demonstrate that good will, not that someone turns out to be an idiot by constantly talking, trying constructively, and being welcomed by attacks, in fear that your rating will not be compromised. It won't be compromised, your ratings are strong, your ratings are high, which is due to little, and what about media manipulation. In any case, most of you support it. Don't worry about it. But anyway, let's react responsibly here, state-of-the-art. Let's at least try it that way. Remember that we emptyed the embassy in Skopje for just some speculation and rumor, or some information, we pulled not only the ambassador, but all the embassy staff in Skopje! It's never or very rarely done. It's not always done during the war. And we did it. And now we're afraid even to call the ambassador, if he hasn't already been invited, to give him a demarch. And one more thing. Like, we don't want to confuse and threaten our countrymen's positions in Montenegro. I think they would feel encouraged if, for example, the Assembly, as the highest legislative authority in Serbia, referred some kind of appeal and support. On the contrary, they would not feel abandoned, as they may feel. Of course, and I end this, co-operation with the Serbian Orthodox Church, not co-operation, the most difficult consultation, both with Mitrovica and with Patriarch personally, besides, the patriarch has made his position very clear, the Sanhedrin has expressed its position, the Mitrolija has expressed its position -- a bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church has been beaten, Montenegrin parliament MPs have been arrested, citizens are beating themselves up, the situation is chaotic. We're not gonna pour oil on the fire, but don't make these people feel abandoned by us. At least in this situation, let's try to react together, so there'll be less room for manipulation and abuse on various sides, benevolent or less benevolent in that matter, both on the outside and on the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68475	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68476	I have a big dilemma that political option MP Gjorge Vukadinovic represents here? For all I know, he entered here, in parliament, on the list of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Dvori. His political colleagues are in front of the embassy of Montenegro, so they are five minutes away, on the staircase and are trying exactly what SNS MPs and representatives of the authorities do not want to do, which is to turn one nation against another people and pour oil on fire, which will not help anyone at this time. We'd all like to be here, when we're in the middle of a debate with an MP, to know exactly which political option we're talking to. If you are a follower of Boška Obradovica's policy, then don't whine here that because of some of your views some other MPs, who disagree with you and will never agree with you, and that is their political right to answer you. You never gave up Boško Obradovica and Dveri, so with full right SNS MPs with you respond as an absolute political opponent who wants to destabilise Serbia, who wants chaos here and who doesn't know what he wants at this time to do the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government. Say it out loud what would you do? What would you do, Gjorge Vukadinovic, at this point? What good would you do for Serbia and Montenegro? Let's hear what these measures are, don't sell fog here in parliament, peace in the world, but not world peace or I don't know what you're talking about. You entered the list with Bosko Obradovic. You're the one who kept quiet when they beat me here in the cabinet. Now something, I'd like to say, but not to say I don't give up Bosk, so I don't know what. What would you do? They'd raise an army, what? Tell that to the citizens of Serbia, that they know who they have here as a representative, someone who thinks it's a phenomenal option for people to die. It will protect the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian people in Montenegro? Well, he won't. Peace, silence, stagnation, moderation, measurement, not pouring oil on fire, that's all we have to say. It is not the Serbian people in Montenegro who care about them or not, but who care about them such as yourself, such as Bosko Obradovic and such as Gilas, who knows whose policy they are trying to conduct here in Serbia and the region. It was enough to be like everyone in politically correct some gloves, so it became a fashion that no one should dare you, you as a representative of that national policy here in the Republic of Serbia, that no one should answer you. He can answer you. I stand by my views. If you think you should do something radical today, then say it in a microphone, and not like the Dalai Lama around, that we're trying to understand your political messages, if you have any political messages at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68477	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68478	I'd just draw attention if the lady had spoken for four minutes and 10 seconds. It's the same way to abuse the Rules of Procedure. The second is to have someone finish the sentence or think for 15-20 seconds, and the second is to double, triple the time. I said, Mrs. Gojkovic, what I mean specifically, and if I have to do it again. You weren't in the O.R., so maybe you didn't hear that. But, of course, you've heard enough times that I've fenced myself and said – nobody here is talking about calling forces, military and tanks, but it doesn't suit you, so you're using words, you're just twisting in the way I just said. No, there's a whole bunch of political and diplomatic moves. Here, we're on our way to some. I was even now constructively discussing and trying to say, to support some idea of a joint response. But, no, it just shows that you, not only do I mean you personally, but generally you as the authorities and the ruling majority here only care about protecting your ratings. You care, Mrs Gojkovic, because you called me, to keep the illusion, to keep the citizens who are watching us or who will watch the report from this, the illusion that you are taking care of the Serbs in Montenegro. You don't care about that, you don't care about them. I don't light fire, I call for reason. But, dear gentlemen, dear colleagues, there will be no... Why don't you call a National Security Council session? Why didn't you offer parliament a resolution? Why didn't you now offer some paper that we would support here, and in some way cause those who aren't here, who aren't in parliament to sign that paper and appeal? That would be smart, that would be state-of-the-art. I'm not Bosko Obradovic's lawyer. We were on the same list, but we're different parliamentary clubs. If I were to support that policy of his, I'd be in his party. With a few gestures, I fenced myself from the moves my colleague made. But, you know, when someone attacks that way, they're always the same people here in the Assembly, so my feeling somehow doesn't allow me to join that lynch now. It was much more critical of politics and of some colleagues from the opposition, that you attack them a little less, that you shoe them a little less here, that every discussion on any topic is not actually calculated on the difamation, prosthesis, swearing, uglyness of these absent colleagues. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not someone who can't be attacked. No, I'm here the most attacked and nonstop most attacked and personally attacked, except for these absent colleagues. If these colleagues who are not here for different reasons, if we exclude them, I am among the most attacked. The attitude towards me is an indication of how you treat the opposition. Not facing attitudes, but ad hoc, ad hominem. So every discussion of mine is always followed by the same performance, by the same words of the same man or the same man. And the people of your MP group are aware it's a farce. Well, how do you think you can convince someone from the EU, from the European Parliament that you really care about the work and order in parliament and that people who are boycotting come back from the boycotting parliamentary groups, when you treat one of the few members of the opposition here like this? It is a measure of your democracy, not those sweet statements to the representatives of the European Parliament. So, I don't want to be fenced, fenced in the lobby, fenced when someone asks me, but here, ritualically, I don't support the moves of some colleagues. After all, I'm here, they're not. I will join the protest outside the Embassy of Montenegro, but I will not contribute to anything that is made within the Serbian divide, fighting, fighting in a way that will suit others. I still spoke shorter than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68479	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68480	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, 107 - A violation of dignity. If anyone tells us – we don't care about the Serbs in Montenegro, it's an insult. We who have relatives, families, friends, who are sincerely concerned about their fate, are appalled by the actions of Montenegrin government towards our countrymen, their citizens of the Serbian nation and Orthodox religion, very concerned, but we want to say that the Montenegrin government has at this moment made a divided state, its country divided. She divided them, Serbia's guilt is gone. Milo Djukanovic will do anything to throw the blame on Serbs and the Russians because of what he caused, to say that he is now a victim of Russian influence through Serbia as a fighter against Russian influence. It's clear to all of us. But to say that we who are sincerely concerned and who are not to blame for the fact that Montenegro separated in 2006 during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, that the state union survived, and the previous speaker supported Tadic and Kostunica just to win the lottery, we are sincerely concerned about the Serbs in Montenegro, tell us -- we don't care about the Serbs in Montenegro, it was an insult to me. It's hard on us. Imagine when it's hard on Vlasima like this, how hard it is on us? I didn't change the nation. The previous speaker will be in Vlahe tomorrow, and I will still be a Serb. It is difficult for us, and I believe it is difficult for Vlasima, but we must be wise and smart and we must not fall for the provocation of Milo Djukanovic, at any cost. But someone keeps trying to show him that he's a fighter for the Serbian thing. So, where was he in 2006? And another thing, most important to him today, he's not just a fake Vlach, he's a fake traveler, he's the most important one today to take 4.580 dinars by lying he came from Novi Sad. For days three or four, he claims he has traveled from Novi Sad to Belgrade. Days, years. Well. 1,269,000 dinars were raised from the register, because it reportedly travels from Novi Sad to Belgrade every day, and we know that in Mother Jevrosima, we all know, but because of the tolerance towards Vlasima we are silent. He says today we don't care about the Serbs in Montenegro. It's like we're doing for the ratings. No, we don't miss the ratings, he's missing the ratings. He is trying to politicise to draw a point with Bosca Obradovic Ljotic. Well, it wasn't Bosko Ljotic who carried the list, it was him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68481	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68482	I want to tell the MP he really insulted me. You insulted me. I have spent 30 years in politics and 30 years trying to be, as far as I know and know, with all my heart, sometimes quite and emotionally, recklessly, and now in a much more mature way to be on the side of the Serbian people no matter where they are, and at the most difficult times. But we're in the 21st century, so I'm not Punisa Racic, and neither are you Stjepan Radic, so that we're counting on the way honor used to be when someone is exaggerating in their insults, thinking he'll get one, two, three votes, not from the citizens of Serbia, but from Bosko Obradovic. I have a question you haven't answered - whose political and political option are you representing here? You say you don't boycott the work of parliament, you use the time of an entire parliamentary club acting to boycott the work of parliament, not boycott because every day they're here and every day they're doing something, they just don't go into the O.R. So, whose? There, drinking coffee, your leader Bosko Obradovic, who makes up that he is on the side of the Serbian people in Montenegro, says – he will go there and I don't know what to solve. What problems he will solve, only to cause a problem for the Serbian people and even more to create a problem for the Republic of Serbia. But I didn't hear you say anything about Dragan Gilas, at a time whose government, his government and his president of the state split up like this between Serbia and Montenegro. And tell me whose time you spend in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia if you do not belong to any political option. I still want to appeal, along with all of you who are present here, that Milun Zogovic, Andrija Mandic and Milan Knezevic as MPs be released from prison. (National MPs Bosko Obradović and Ivan Kostic enter the hall with transparent ones on which it reads: "Milo, thieves, we do not give you holiness! "and "Why do you keep your mouth shut? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Ivan Kostic: How are you not ashamed to sit here today? Where are you, Markovic, today? Where's Linta? Where are you? Shame on you all! You who deals with this subject, where are you today? ) (Bosko Obradovic: Do you agree, colleagues, with this? Tell the public whether you support Milo Djukanovic's regime and the persecution of the Serbian Orthodox Church and people in Montenegro. Do you support beating up Episcopal Methods? Do you support the arrest of 25 colleagues, our opposition MPs in Montenegro? Do you support the arrest of citizens who blocked Montenegro so a scandalous law could not be passed? Do you support the abduction of Serbian sanctity and property in Montenegro? I call on you to organise an extraordinary assembly session and for the Serbian Parliament to take a stand on what is happening in Montenegro. You can do it, you have most, you can do it. ) Dear MPs, I'm interrupting the session. Please, everyone, calm down, please. I ask MPs not to fall for Bosko Obradovic's provocation. Please don't fall for Bosko Obradovic's provocation. Please do not fall for the pre-planned provocation of MPs Bosko Obradović and Ivan Kostic. That's all they came here for. Please don't fall for it. I ask you all to calm down and not fall for the provocation of Boško Obradović and Ivan Kostic. They came to parliament today just to cause an incident. Please just keep in mind that they're here planned to cause an incident. I ask the messengers to sit down, please. Please sit down, leave Bosko Obradovic and Ivan Kostic alone, let them do what they planned. Let them do what they planned, make whatever they want to do here. It's a picture of them, not a picture of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. It's all clear. It's clear, we've seen it these days in all the parliaments in our environment. Nothing new, please. Please don't fall for it. I'm asking the security department not to react. I'm calling security to keep him from responding at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68485	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry about all this, but I don't think what's happened now can become the central theme of the National Assembly session. Of course, this is not something that needs to be supported, this kind of behavior and, of course, causing conflict and attacks on the MPs, even if they are political opponents, they are inadmissible, but don't just forget that instead of talking about what's very important, really right now, what's most important, that we are now dealing with such incidents. We have already said and pointed out that the very ones Serbia has been oriented towards, which is the EU, have been supporting Milo Djukanovic for 30 years, that they care about democracy as they are called on in Serbia to care for democracy and the electoral process, they would have long seen Milo Djukanovic's back. It shows you that of human rights, rule of law, democracy, there is something more sacred to them and that is their interest. So is Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, only because it is in the West's interest. This gives us an excuse and a basis for our position that the only future of the Republic of Serbia and only where it can ensure military security, energy and economic security is in integration with the Russian Federation and that the sooner it should become our foreign-political orientation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68486	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68487	Serbian citizens, unfortunately, were right. Unfortunately, this morning we said that everything would be done that the conflicts organised and orchestrated in Banja Luka, Podgorica, were to be spilled and ended in Belgrade. This morning we said there would be an attack on the National Assembly. This morning, we said they would try to end this terrible attack on the Serbian people, wherever they live by clashing Serbs in Belgrade. This Latvian attack, this fascist attack on the National Assembly, disgraced the National Assembly but did not embarrass the Assembly, disgraced those who did. How did this violence help Serbs in Montenegro? Will the Serbs in Montenegro now feel better when they see a quarreling, well-versed Serbia in which the MPs are fighting? What prevented the MP from taking his place in the bench and asking and saying anything? What was stopping him? Was he right and could he and if I and all these people here invited him to go to the bench and ask for an emergency session or whatever he wanted, because that's his parliamentary right? What made him come here to take a picture that will now spin in Pristina and Podgorica, which will spin on every anti-Serb channel? What prevented him from doing this disgrace that Serbia's enemies would now be very happy to show and show as the face of the Serbian parliament, and it is not the face of the Serbian parliament? The Serbian parliament's face is an argumentary debate of Serbian citizens' representatives. They have disgraced everyone, trying to embarrass the National Assembly and to embarrass this high House, to embarrass our people. I pray that all citizens of Serbia never, ever believe that what happened today, that this is the face of the Serbian parliament. They are not Serbian parliamentarians, they are not fascists, they are not people who will come to embarrass their assembly. There's a million ways to say what you think, if you think anything. But when they order you to embarrass your people, when they order you to conflict in the Serbian parliament, when they order you to end all conflicts between Serbs in Belgrade, then you don't think anything and do what you're told. That's what happened today. Excuse me, Serbian citizens. I'm sorry you saw this. I'm sorry, Serbian brothers, wherever you live, that you saw in your capital, where you believe all strength and all goodness, that you could see is not so. Sorry, Serbian brothers, for seeing that there are those who will also challenge conflicts among Serbs in Belgrade. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but believe us, they're a minority, this isn't Serbia, this isn't the Serbian people, this will never happen again, you'll never be able to watch this again, the Serbian people fighting among themselves. We know who our enemies are. We know what they want, we see how they conflict us in Banja Luka, in Podgorica, in Niksic, we see how they try and hope that the Serbs and this century start and end with each other's conflicts, hatreds, mutual debates, so that blood between us doesn't fall. We're not the kind of people who'll fall for that. All Serbs, wherever you live, remain with our brothers in Montenegro today, but never, ever think that violence among Serbs will solve anything and help anyone. Don't ever think that the conflicts in Banja Luka or Podgorica or Belgrade will help anyone, be with your people, your church, your country, don't ever support anything like this and do it. Thank you, and I'm sorry, wherever you've been watching this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68488	Thank you, Minister. This was just a try. So we didn't even fight, there was no conflict, because most of them here, the vast majority of MPs did not participate in the attempt of Bosko Obradovic and Ivan Kostic to challenge here something that would calm citizens who have confidence in Serbia. The word is Vojislav Vujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68489	Thank you. Article 107, violation of the dignity of the Assembly. You know, this looked a little bit like Venezuela right now. If for days and months back we call on the opposition to come equally with everyone involved and that possibility can be exploited now. Especially when amendments go to very important laws. They're not using it, they're savagely breaking in and doing what they're doing. So I never convicted anyone from this place. On behalf of the JS parliamentary group, I condemn Boška Obradovica. This isn't a way, this isn't a mechanism. Yesterday we talked about what is Serbia's mechanism to react at the moment. You want to fight? You want a million people to go to Montenegro? It's not our right. We gave support to the SPC, yesterday we drew attention to the best possible thing that happened in the Balkans, the thing that beat politics in Montenegro, which is that Islamic religious communities, the Catholic Church, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the people of Serbia living in Montenegro, expressed their opinion. But we, like another country, have no right to interfere in a different way, a more verbal way. My colleagues, if you think this is on the agenda, it is not in accordance with the laws, if you think we are violating the interests of the Serbian border and of the Serbian people, come and tell me. What we're doing is in Serbia's interest and I call everyone to calm down, to the consensus, we're going to pass these laws. Thank you again to the officers, the entire department team, who worked on making these laws. This is for the future of the Serbs the right thing to do, and please, President, I don't know what you could have done anymore, but at least if this situation didn't happen, your appeals, or everyone, didn't help us act normal. Once again, we don't need Venezuela. This is where the people chose those who needed to talk. The fact that someone is mocking the people doesn't apply the right that the law gives them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68490	Time. Thank you. I've done everything, but to the primitives and the thugs, it's worth nothing to them. I've done everything to avoid this, and I think we've done the best we can, which is a calm situation, and what is the picture and opportunity of Gilasova, Jeremic and Bosko Obradovica and Dveri movement, has shown here who they are and what they are to Serbia, the whole of Serbia has shown, to the Serbian people, wherever they are, who they are. George Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68491	Thank you, President. First of all, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to express my gratitude to you that you have responded peacefully, that you have managed to bring, in spite of these scenes, and introduce a session into a normal course, to continue working in a democratic spirit. What has been seen in parliament is not the image of what the ruling coalition wants to do and what it does. We have repeatedly said that the lack of political power, lack of political influence, lack of political ideas, leads right to this, to the most primitive behavior. This is no longer a policy, this is not the essence of the existence of politics, and this must by no means be the basic norm of social behaviour in Serbia. All the time we've been saying one thing, one part of the opposition has a policy, which is the image of violence, hatred and conflict, and through incidents, they're trying to reach political points and be active in public. Nor will there be political points, as citizens rightly recognise and value what the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing and does, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is neither the first nor the last, believe the incident that's about to happen. No one has prevented them from entering parliament and from showing their strength through a reasoned debate. Because of the inability and political anemics and I will say, political impotence, they have come out of parliament, because they do not have the possibility, not the power of force, ladies and gentlemen, but the power of arguments. Hate doesn't contribute, hate doesn't build, it degrades. Serbia needs stability and it is important that we act wisely and rationally and to maintain this political stability. Believe it or not, this is not strange, so in recent days we have all witnessed, from that part of the opposition, that they are trying in the most ground floor, the cheapest way to devalue and degrade all those results, which the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved in defence of national and state interests. Just a few days ago, the words of Bedžet Pacolli, we could hear from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. So, as a parliamentary club, we believe in a wise and rational policy and the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, and have our full support, and we are fully convinced that they will find a solution that is in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, let's not just condemn those who came here and brought the banners. I'm more concerned with those who sit here today and greet them on their way out. Is it supporting them, is it supporting policy of violence, conflict of causing incidents? We have to condemn that too, gentlemen, and tell the public today that that's what it looks like. On the other hand, this is, as I understand it, a broken boycott of parliament. It was sought, therefore, a way out of a pointless and hopeless political situation, and this was the only way to challenge the incident, to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, support for you presidents, support for your colleagues, and gratitude to colleagues and colleagues for not responding in the way that was expected of that part of the opposition that went into the room to cause incidents and I believe we will continue to work in a democratic spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68492	The word is Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68493	Thank you, President of the Assembly. I would also like to express my personal support to you for all that you have done in the last few decades and for a dignified stance and for defending the dignity of the National Assembly, as well as for all my colleagues who represent the ruling majority, who have been very dignified in front of this aggression, violence and behavior, which is not adequate, the behaviour that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should have, but such behaviour cannot be tolerated on the street either. In his speech, my colleague Djordje Milicevic well noted that there has now been a peak of this farce promoted by part of the opposition headed by Dragan Gilas and the SZS. Neither is the boycott, nor is the struggle for citizens for the people, for ideas for the Republic of Serbia, their goal, but the fight for violence, aggression, to come through, as they have repeatedly said by some Ukrainian or Macedonian scenarios, come into these benches and come to lead this country. I have also said this in my speech and since this morning that they are being denied, denied by the people of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the research that I have been quoting since this morning, says that this is their so-called. Boycott at 1 percent support level. It is, who knows, and who is dealing with this, knows that it is a statistical error and knows that our majority and that President Aleksandar Vukic, have the support of more than 60 percent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so in any case, this behavior is sad and sad that we have colleagues like this. I don't think that in two hundred years of history, the Serbian state, Serbian parliamentaryism, we haven't had cases like this, and we haven't had a situation for people like this to be in parliament and to be represented in state institutions in any way. What is essential to me is that in the next parliamentary and next local elections of the people of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will say the last word. They'll drive these people away, I'm free to say, this scum that's coming to attack the MPs, the president of the National Assembly, the minister, is coming in front of these honorary officers to embarrass us here, to embarrass our citizens that this image of parliament is going to the region, to go into the world, to drive them to the waste of history. I believe that with one consistent policy, with a common stance, we will defend the Republic of Serbia, defend our national interests and defend against those who say Serbia is corrupt, and that Serbia is giving some black money to withdraw recognitions of the so-called Kosovo. Once again, thank you President, we are fortunate that you are leading the Parliament and that your decades of experience has now been seen in action, that we have defended the dignity of the National Assembly and what is most important to the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68494	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68495	Thank you. Article 109(1) I know that the chairman, indeed in a recent situation, was unable to react and I do not blame the chairman for the provocations that had just arrived, but I want on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia to condemn any provocations and any violence that is happening here in the tide. The prey is a place to talk. All MPs have the right to discuss all the points of the agenda and we have talked here by amendments, but we have also talked about the situation in Montenegro, and so could representatives of the opposition. Unfortunately, they have defined themselves as another method of work. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes the Assembly is a place for talks, the Assembly is a mirror of democracy, not a place for any violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68496	Thank you. We have Gjorge Vukadinovic on the list. Just tell me what time you're wasting. (Jorge Vukadinovic: MP groups) ) Of which parliamentary groups, that I can define, because today from your discussions I didn't understand which parliamentary group you belong and does this mean that your parliamentary group broke up the boycott, which is extremely important for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and for everything we experience, that I know who did not break the boycott? (Jorge Vukadinovic: They boycott, and I don't.) So, as an individual, you spoke. If you are representing the New Serbia parliamentary group - Serbia's Rescue Movement... (Jorge Vukadinović: Give me your word. ) So they are not boycotting Parliament's work. That's not how you spend your time with the MPs, not your time. (Jorge Vukadinović: Give me your word. So either Jeremic boycotts or doesn't boycott. Right? Either Vela Ilic and his MPs boycott or do not boycott. If you are the boss, deputy head of the parliamentary group, you are no longer boycotting the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and I want you to say it in the microphone. Your group of MPs doesn't boycott apparently. Then what are we doing in front of the public? Is he boycotting or not boycotting parliament's work? Is this raid a savage boycott or not a boycott? (Jorge Vukadinović: Give me your word. I don't know what you're showing me. But indeed, your group of MPs has wasted their time. The head of the parliamentary group has a few minutes left. So, you are not boycotting parliament's work, but representing the Serbia-New Serbia-Serb Movement and Sandra Raskovic Ivić and Dijana Vukomanovic, and Jeremic and I don't know who's boycotting, is not boycotting. It doesn't exist - I don't boycott, I boycott. (Jorge Vukadinović: Give me your word. ) Then you cannot use 20 minutes of the parliamentary group. Either we take parliament seriously, or we make what was just before, try it on. Otherwise, MPs' groups have wasted their time, and I can no longer let the MPs report individually. You've wasted your time. [[Alexander Seselj: But I have a replica to present Mr. Minister.]] On the first amendment, you spoke two minutes after the second amendment. Both MPs Bozidar Delic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. You have two minutes. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68497	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic Bureau of Statistics has changed the methodology for calculating average earnings and publishing profit data by two months of delay, and that is precisely the reason for these amendments to Article 95. Army law. However, we have proposed that, in the second position of this member, the text allowing the Government to grant appropriations in the Republic of Serbia's budget for salaries to establish a lower base for the account of salaries of professional military personnel, to be deleted, because we believe that this is inadmissible, given that for each financial year the number of professional members of the military is accurate and that this is the basis for the planning of salaries in the Republic of Serbia's budget and cannot be allowed for the government to establish a lower base than the legislation prescribed. In earlier times, the situation occurred, and there was a disturbance of budget funds at the Ministry of Defence, which again led to the abandonment of more important tasks, such as military equipment, military training and the like, and that all had a negative impact on the military's operational capabilities. The government could not deprive other users of the budget, because they would immediately go into protests, so the exemption of funds has always been made from the military budget, because it is the only user who does not have the right to strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68498	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here, you have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68499	Thank you. Just before you missed out on giving me a chance to talk to the Rules of Procedure, but I don't mind, of course, we're all a little excited about everything that's going on. I wanted to ask you and advise anyone who doesn't have the right to use boss time, yet you give the opportunity to keep provoking as he did before this attempt to cause an incident in the parlametary. I watched with my eyes when he and Bosca Obradovic, as the children say, confirmed five and congratulated him because they were able to do what they were planning to do in the Assembly, here, to cause little interference. What they haven't done is they haven't been able to cause an incident that could be a disgrace to this House. One more thing, I'd like honest finders who tried to cause an incident here to return the phone to my colleague Bojana Bagica, who seems to have been able to steal in that crowd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68500	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68501	Article 106rd, in critical days following the survival of the Serb people and the Serbian Orthodox worm in Montenegro, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at times when the Serbian people should show unity and give full support to our brothers and sisters in Montenegro, we have experienced an unremembered, brutal incident, those who would come to power to use fascist methods and physical assault on fellow MPs. Is it the end of that scenario? Is it an accident? First, we had a preparation at the National Assembly of Charges that the current power, maltene, supports Milo Djukanovic's regime in what it does, in an attempt to kidnap the sanctity of the SPC. After this ideological preparation, a well-planned incident followed. What's there to achieve? Is it all over? First they went to the Montenegrin embassy, which is exterioral and which the police must protect, protest there and strategize on the walls. What happens if a new meeting is organised, so someone tries to endanger the security of staff at the Montenegrin embassy? The police will have to react. And then there could be a conflict with those who protest. Will all this then turn into an invitation from Bosko Obradovic and other fighters to chase at the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions, to violently take over power? Don't you think that this brutal incident in our assembly has now in turn suppressed brutal violence and the arrest of our fellow MPs in the Montenegrin parliament? The second question -- don't you think any other reaction and protests in front of the Montenegrin embassy could also challenge the protests of followers of the Mil Djukanovic regime outside the Serbian embassy in Podgorica? Was that not too much of a risk of a conflict between the Serb people and those who support Milo Djukanovic's regime?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68502	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68503	Madam President, for years, we've been saying that by order of Kyle Scott, Bosko Obradovica you pushed into the National Assembly. He had no censorship to have MPs, nor did Sanda Raskovic. I, see, come from a city where methods, whose follower is Bosko Obradovic, have turned my city black. By order of Dimitri Ljotic, together with the German Nazis, Marisav Petrovic carried out students from the Kragujeva High School and grown men, thousands of them, and shot them in the forest. What's waiting for us? What do you expect from a Bosko Obradovic, who was a direct follower of Dimitri Ljotic, which we have been telling you for years, and what did he and the Serbian radicals here in the Assembly have to admit indirectly? Mr. Minister, as far as the professional status of soldiers in the military is concerned, and we Serbian radicals stand for professionalization, so that our professional soldiers have absolutely the best equipment, but also more wages. As Zorana Mihajlovic fell apart by giving Bechtel 300m euros more for the construction of this Moravian Corridor, you could, and that is always the intensity of the SRS, when it comes to the draft of the budget law, to give a lot more for the military, and so the salary of a professional soldier is instead of a total of 44,000 and 45,000, as far as it is now, 55,000 dinars, as the average is at the level of the Republic of Serbia. A great contribution was made by those who were volunteers in the war in the past country wars, who fought for Kosovo and Metohija, but later some of them went into professional soldiers. It is my responsibility today to say that Marko Paukovic, a Republika Srpska fighter who was released twice in court, was sentenced to 12 years by the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, based on imaginary witnesses who witnessed a false video link from Bihac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68504	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, for the first time I am standing up in this assembly in respect and support of all those brave and truthful in the Montenegrin Parliament who have risen to defend the greatest sanctity of the Serbian people. They are the same ones Serbia, along with the president of Serbia, accused of having to do with the Russian intelligence service and of preparing a coup in Montenegro. They're the same ones that, instead of giving unique support in the struggle to survive for the preservation of life, faith, churches, we're doing performance here. We watched Serbian radicals of everything and everything in the Serbian parliament, but we haven't seen a setup like this yet. Instead of condemning the strictest, most strongly condemning Montenegro's leadership, those we've known from the beginning have been involved in SNS and intelligence services. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68506	I do not allow you to insult SNS MPs. I won't let you do that. (Milorad Mircic: Let me finish. I'll interrupt you every time you say something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68507	We are today discussing the Serbian Army, discussing and saying it is based on the tradition of the Serb people. You forgot that a good part of the tradition of Serdar Janko Vukotic, Marko Miljanov, is that this tradition has its foundations in Serbia's Montenegro. You forgot that quickly. But you haven't forgotten when it comes to the leadership of Montenegro, the mafia, the thieving, the sanctuary, the asylum, the protection, that's what you don't forget. You have been walking around Belgrade by those who stole, sickened Montenegro, those who are the main ideologists in the fight against Serbia's national being in Montenegro. They're walking freely around Belgrade. They still boast that they have full freedom in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68508	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. (Jorge Vukadinovic: By amendment.) You've wasted your time, and you haven't told me which MP group you belong to, so I can run a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68509	Mrs. Gojkovic, indeed, instead of all these performances, we really understand that it can only distract us from the subject. I think it's enough for everyone to know what they think about incidents of that nature. I don't think we should talk about that anymore. (National MP Djordje Vukadinovic approaches the chair of the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68510	I'll give you your time back. (National MP Djordje Vukadinovic addresses the speaker of the assembly. We'll talk about it later. You can make a press conference. This isn't a private conversation between you and me. But you must, your parliamentary group claims to boycott parliament and the work of parliament and you cannot spend. Is that your problem or isn't it... So you're not boycotting. If you do not boycott parliament's work as a parliamentary group, I will give you time. Thank you. Djordje Vukadinovic now said his parliamentary group is no longer boycotting the work of this parliament. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68511	Thank you. So, already on 24 and 25 April 2016, the SRS said what it was and said which parliamentary group, i.e. That coalition was transferred over the election, which did not have enough votes. You also took part under the pressure of the US Embassy to introduce that parliamentary group, that party to the National Assembly. And now it's coming back to you like this. I think the SPC issue in Montenegro is currently the most important issue, and it does not deserve by any chance to replace the debate now and not to focus the issue, to discuss any incidents. Any normal person will condemn what happened. Every normal person knows that the right to his opinion is one of the basic human rights. So, even though I don't agree on anything, except that today is Friday, it's the only thing I might be able to agree with some MPs from the government. But indeed, they have every right to say whatever they want and must not be physically threatened. It's not a topic, it was, it happened, let's not talk about this nonsense anymore, let's see what the state of Serbia has to do about the scandalous attempt to kidnap the SPC in Montenegro. That's much more important than who pushed whom and why who didn't boycott and who was boycotting other things. This is now designed to get this topic out of focus, this whole performance. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68512	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68513	Here, the citizens of Serbia could see it in direct transmission, and then I didn't want to interfere, how you're trying to make fun of the truth that happened two hours ago when I was talking, but let's get back to the subject. The serious state had to be prepared for such moves as Milo Djukanovic's regime and what happened yesterday, what happens today and what happens in the coming days, be assured, will remind and be prepared for some new 17 March and we all have a moral obligation and each other to defend the Serbian people wherever they are. The state of Serbia has shown weakness. You're calling to keep quiet. No, we should not be silent when attacking and beating the Serb people in Montenegro. You were saying there were MPs arrested. The people of Serbia need to know that at this point, more citizens of Serbian nationality and Orthodox religion in Montenegro have been beaten. Once, even in Mojkovac, a broken rib was broken by police beating Mil Djukanovic, and once a broken hip. What are we gonna wait for? What is Serbia waiting for? What is the Prime Minister and the President of the State waiting for? To banish our people from Montenegro? That there's a flash and a storm to react? The Serbian Radical Party has always been with its people and has always shown responsibility everywhere in the Assembly and has been ready to defend Serbian national interests. Do not put us in the same basket with various mercenaries, traitors, who would always draw attention from the most important topics and events.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68514	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68515	Thank you, Madam President. I'd just like to take a moment to look back on what happened. I mean, at least the PUPS MP group, and PUPS thinks so and strongly condemns these attempts to harass the public, because if that wasn't their goal, they could have done it on the street. There is no need to come to the congregation, so in the congregation, do so and cause chaos. They will boast, as they are already doing, here in the lobby that they did it for patriotic reasons because, for God's sake, none of Serbia's official institutions reacted to what is happening in Montenegro. I think Minister Vulin's been saying things this morning like he's already seen them happen, so he's been describing us. I don't rule out, no, I don't rule out, I expect the possibility of other forms, now these days, and other places of such provocation and so forth. But there's something else I'd like to say. Today, we did not just have this event inspired by them, those who boycott the National Assembly. We had one, before that, about an hour and a half ago, two here, also motionless, according to me, event. Starting from his post, the MP, where I was speaking, is going towards the chairman and the presidency with a clear display of revolt and willingness to conflict, especially if you come to the Assembly in the Bank. By the way, several years ago, the Working Group was formed in the Assembly, a proposal for a code of conduct was made in the Assembly and we did nothing further. I think this shows that it should be done. In addition, just to add one more thing, the Service of Security of this Assembly is not organized and set up as it should most effectively provide for the work of the Assembly, the normal work of the Assembly, especially when we have what happens here. I'll just say one thing. When a Bosko Obradovic, after everything he has done by the institutions of this country, and even in the Assembly itself, is trying to break the door, in the Assembly, then he must stand at the door to this hall and when he enters the hall, he must follow him. First, because he can't cause anything physically, and secondly, he can be threatened. That's how the service has to work when we're in this situation where we are, and where people can come in whenever they want to get in. Someone who's breeding to boycott the Assembly can't get into this congregation's hall as it comes to mind. He can't. In the end, just once again to underline what was going on at the beginning, the harshest, as a parliamentary group, we condemn all that was happening in the assembly today unkindly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68516	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68517	Madam President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is in full support of strengthening the battle's security of members of the Serbian Army. In my opinion, as a lawyer, I believe that after the Constitution, the most important law on the Serbian Army is the Law. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what the enemies of the Serb people who were against the armed forces did in 2006, so they removed the elite brigades, such as the elite brigade of 63nd and 72nd. Those elite brigades had great importance today, in my opinion, have great importance for the struggle and defence of the state of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ask me, I just heard the president ask - what would one of the MPs do in particular? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first thing I would do is arrest thieves and robbers who robbed the state, took away property and bought from that property, not one "400 s", but two "400 s". What would you do, pardon all convicted of false crimes such as stealing chickens or bicycles, so you gave them a place, these robbers and thieves to fill in. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has the opportunity to strengthen its army's battlelock. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68518	You've wasted your time. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68519	Don't forget, please, on several of these topics we talked about and that what happened now is the most important issue now, which is the position of the Serbs in Montenegro and the continuation of the persecution of the Serb people in Montenegro and the attempt to kidnap the Serbian Orthodox Church. We have already said today officially and repeatedly call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to request an official Security Council session on this matter. So, Montenegro is on the verge of civil war, all because of willfulness, because of the mafia and criminal regime of Milo Djukanovic, which is aimed at destroying Serbian national identity. Don't be a theme just whether Bosko or Vukadinovic or any of them are going to make incidents here. It's all about getting off the subject. The topic is what the Republic of Serbia can do to protect Serbs in Montenegro. The first move should officially be an initiative for the UN Security Council session. We can't give up and we can't ignore it, because if we ignore it, pretend like nothing's going on, say what you're going to do, it's an independent state, we can't ask ourselves about the internal affairs of other countries, then they'll just go further until they ethnically clear everything from Montenegro. Don't let it get past us without any reaction. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68520	There's no replica, because it was deliberately challenged. You're just mentioning it. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have once again witnessed that Bosko Obradovic has played a maestro for the regime. Besides, that's why you've been canceling the election at 15 polling stations to have this kind of service. But we will not allow the topic to change, and the main topic is what Milo Djukanovic's regime is doing to the Serbian people and the SPC in Montenegro. The fact that not even in Turkish times, their empire did not go that way, nor Ustasha Croatia, nor NDH, the formerly, when I say Ustasha Croatia, I mean today, they did not pass such laws even though they tried to form some parallel and canonized Orthodox churches, but Milo Djukanovic's regime does. What a shame it is for him to do so, so is the shame of you who are silent and now you see that there was a little more sense this morning that you listened when I was talking about this, maybe this incident wouldn't have happened. Maybe you wouldn't need it that way. It's better, ladies and gentlemen, to have an expedient mind than none, and the sooner you realize that it will be better for both us and the citizens of Serbia. You're here now in one place at a time and you're talking about how awesome that Bosko is. It's not scary to me at all, and we told you in time who he is and what he is, but look, there's almost 200 of you here, and we've had 20 of us working on it, but we'd never let him beat up the head of a parliamentary group like he did... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68522	This has nothing to do with your amendment. Maybe you didn't even read it when someone wrote it, so it relieves you of your responsibilities. Representatives Bozidar Delic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted to the 14th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68523	We have seen that here Minister Vulin explained that no one can pressure Serbia anymore and that Serbia is independent and must no longer suffer pressures, etc., and we are witnessing that Serbia, i.e. The authorities in Serbia have suffered pressures from the European Parliament, former European parliamentarians and NGOs. As a result, the SNS proposes LDP candidate for the REM Council, Judith Popovic, former LDP MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party is proposing for the REM Council and the advances will vote for it. I want to tell you that you are right, Mr. Vulin, and in Banja Luka, things are happening and things are happening in Republika Srpska and Podgorica, and everything is pointed at KIM, against the Serb people, and it is not an accident and you are all right. When all this starts happening in Serbia, on whose side will Judita Popovic and the likes of which you support and for which you will vote? Will they be on the side of those who will defend Serbia and the Serb people or will they be on the side of those who attack us? We do all this because of the EU that we will never enter and we are able to endure because of these pressures, to make decisions that are not in our interest. The sooner we stop this situation here, the more we turn to the ODKB, the more we turn to the Russian Federation. You said today, you quoted His man. He said when they told him as a remark that Russia is far away, that it is a pity that Russia is far away – and the sun is far away, but warms when it will. We need to bond with the Russian Federation and thus protect our people in the Balkans, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68524	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68525	Mrs. Gojkovic, Article 107. Here, a flagrant violation of the multiple Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly for not giving me the word neither for the replica when I was called, and before I try to use the nine-and-a-half minutes of parliamentary time I have, which is at my disposal. You know it well. You can deceive those who don't know how things are with the Rules of Procedure and the Groups. As long as there is, until someone withdraws their signatures, that MP group exists. You've denied me time just because I wouldn't say so and to maintain the media and the auditorium and those who look at us in the wrong belief that this time the incident was caused by representatives of the Dvori. I don't agree with my colleague Bosca about a lot of things, and it's not a secret. We even had some sharp polemics, but this time he made only one performance as it is made in the European Parliament, and he was attacked by MPs, attacked by SNS MPs. One of them ran off on a colleague of Kostic's and turned down like a ping-pong ball. So, as much as he disagreed about tactics and other things, the incident was caused by representatives of the ruling party, and they had some performance as it is made in both the European Parliament and the Montenegrin Parliament. I'm ending up, what's terrible is that it took an incident like this to realize how serious this is. We're supposed to show a style here. Thanks to the conduct of the ruling majority who every second uses here to insult the representatives of the opposition, we have the situation we have. So it's clear who attacked, who approached this time. It's clear who's the subject of constant chit-chat by the MPs here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68526	Thank you, MP. I am responsible for the citizens of Serbia who did not watch that part of the session when your colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia, to whom you obviously belong, fell into... Will you be so parliamentary as to listen to my answer? Djordje Vukadinovic throws. I'm asking both MPs to let me go. He didn't see the video. He saw the video without a problem. Fire here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Stand here in front of the table, attack Arsic and make, challenge, attempt fascist methods here at real chaos in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing we've noticed is that you and your colleagues and the Alliance for Serbia welcomed them, with an "A" or "Give My Fife". And that's an impression of you as an MP one tells when you turn on the microphone and the other works behind the back of the cameras. And here you are their logistics support in the O.R. They're outside, and you're here in the O.R. And that's my assessment. It's my right to say it here. And it won't do anything with the microcrisis. Either your parliamentary group boycotts parliament's work or it doesn't boycott a point. It's your internal, family matter, you clear it up and go back to parliament, so let us know who you really belong to. But Serbian citizens must know that you and Bosko Obradovic, Ivan Kostic, with the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia when they tried to create chaos here and cause a fight here, a Serb fight here in parliament, hailed with a "giv mi faif". And you judge not them, but who gave whom the word and how many seconds does anyone have to speak? I don't know who you belong to. Define yourself, agree on a holiday with Sanda Raskovic Ivić, with Jeremic, with your leaders, whether you boycott or do not boycott parliament's work. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68527	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected viewers, it is clear to all that people who receive wages and do not work have come to interfere with the violent people who work. It's not too much to explain that there was someone on my right, among the organizers, and that's why he threw five, because he was able in part to convince this guy to create this mess. I think he should bring five signatures, that we know that this MP group exists, not throws five. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want a strong Serbian Army, which is derived from a strong Serbian economy, which will surprise both politically strong Serbia and militaryly strong Serbia. We can't be prevented by anyone in the region, and the needs of what's happening around us, the need to have a strong army that came out of a strong economy more than evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want peace. I want peace and Djukanovic's supporters, Serbs, compatriots, citizens of the Serbian nation and Orthodox religion to defend their sanctity in peace, peaceful means because they deserve it. I have to say, the way it was - time is the best solution, Him. Every authority falls, the Mills fall. Montenegro is a sovereign independent state, but I believe I firmly believe if Serbia is economically dominant and militaryly dominant in the region, I believe that many Milosevics will remember and return to its Serbian roots and Montenegro will be a state, but the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68528	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68529	I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate and everyone who faced their opinions with their arguments, who showed the citizens of Serbia that we are thinking about Serbia, that we respect Serbia's Army, that we love our army, that we love our Serbia, and that I want to apologize to all citizens for this Latvian invasion of the Assembly. I would once again like to tell everyone that conflicts between Serbs must never, ever, ever repeat, that everything we have warned unfortunately happened. I just want to say once again that I am infinitely sorry that now all the enemies of Serbia are going to try to present this disgusting picture as a picture of Serbia. Now they will try to equate the right beating and the real violence in Montenegro will try to level out and make a catch between Belgrade and Podgorica, to show that all of this is essentially the same and how we all behave in the same way. The truth isn't like that. You're the truth, you're the better face, the better face, the face we should face the world. Thank you if you support the laws, if you support the strategies, thank you for trusting the Serbian Army and your country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-27-0.u68530	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, December 27th, 2019, starting at 15.15pm, as a day for voting on the items of the 10th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 138 MPs, one MP did not vote. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote the amendments of Ambassador Alexander Seselj to Article 2. Finalizing vote: for - one MP. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on Article 3. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 of the Ignorance of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of MEP Miljan Damjanovic on Article 5. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dubravko Bojic to Article 7. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments of Parliamentarian Zoran Despotovic to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to Article 8. Finalizing vote: for - three MPs. I would like to put the amendments of MP Tomislav Ljubenović on Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 8. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to vote the amendments of Bozidar Delic and Ruzica Nikolic on Article 9. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 10. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic to article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments of Miljan Damjanovic to article 11. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Bozidar Delic and Peter Jojic as a member of 12. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendment of Alexander Seselj on Article 13 to the vote: no one voted. I put my opinion on the vote of the amendments, Nemanje Sarovic, on Article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Bozidar Delic and Alexander Seselj to article 14. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Marijana Rističević. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law. I put to the vote the proposal for a defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the field of defence, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 139 against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 138, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 8(2). The Law on Electronic Media, members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, elects most of the votes of the total number of MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Access to the vote on candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal from the competent committee of the National Assembly. The candidates for the selection of one member of the Council are Nenad Zoric and Judita Popovic, on the proposal of the National Assembly's committee. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that every MP can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Nenad Zoric as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, the abstentions – there is no vote, not 134 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Judita Popovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, six MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Judita Popovic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, on a proposal from the National Assembly's competent board. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the Association of Film, Film and Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council on a proposal from the Association of Film, Scene and Drama Artists and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia are Zoran Simjanovic and Bozidar Zecevic. I am putting the motion to elect Zoran Simjanovic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 139 against. I am voting on the proposal to elect Bozidar Zecevic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted for 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Zoran Simjanovic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body on a proposal from the Association of Film, Scene and Drama Artists and Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the National Councils of National Minorities. Candidates for the election of one member of the Council on the proposal of national councils of national minorities are Aleksandar Vitkovic and Dragomir Zupanc. Since one candidate is selected from the two proposed candidates, I note that each member of Parliament can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Aleksandar Vitkovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs. I am putting the motion to elect Dragomir Zupanc as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 138 MPs for – two against. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Alexander Vitkovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal from the National Councils of National Minorities. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body in the selection and wish them success in their work. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2019, at 10 o'clock and 39 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 27 December 2019, at 11 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 158(7). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote - no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Given that the National Assembly has carried out its consideration and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Dear People's MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ends this second regular session in 2019, so I invite you to listen to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. ) Thank you all for your work, and I wish you happy New Year’s Eve.
