ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-30-0.u63379	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 peoples. To determine the quorum, please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for the act referred to in points 1 to 7 of the agenda. First item of the agenda – I would like to put the draft postal service law to the vote in principle. I conclude the vote and I find that for - 136 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted for two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana Petrovic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 18 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to article 29 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting amendments to article 32, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I am putting amendments to article 39, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for -three. I am putting the amendments to article 41, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: in – two. I am putting the amendments to article 42, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: in – two. I am putting amendments to article 47, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for -three. I put the amendments to Article 49, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: in – two. I put the amendments to the 53rd vote, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for -three. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – two. I am putting the amendments to article 82, which were jointly submitted by MPs Mira Petrovic and Snezana B. Petrovic. Finalising vote: for -three. I put the amendments to article 109 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on postal services in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, no one, with abstentions, voted four, a total of 140 MPs. I find that a bill on postal services has been passed. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on Confirmation of the Act of the World Postal Federation, in general. Finalising vote: for – 140. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the acts of the World Postal Union. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary to the Information Security Act I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Security Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: 140 MPs voted in favour. I find the law accepted, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Natasha Jovanovic to Article 1. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Marijan Risticevic to Article 2. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 9. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine MPs. I put the amendments to Article 13. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 19, with the correction, Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 20 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 22 to the vote The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare that 141 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Information Security Act. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the general safety of the product I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare that 141 MPs voted for it. I find the law accepted, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted jointly by MEPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five MPs. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Necessa Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3, which were submitted jointly by MEPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7 which were jointly submitted by MEPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which were submitted jointly by MEPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare that 142 MPs voted for it. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the General Product Safety Act. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Exporting and Importing Two-way Slaves I would like to put forward a draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act for a double purpose, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare that 142 MPs voted for it. I find the law accepted, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Milljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six MPs. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 6, with the correction, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I now put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of double-use goods, in general. Finalising vote: for – 141 MEPs. I find that the Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of dual-use goods. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, in general. Finalising vote: for – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I now put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Republic Fund's financial plan for pension and disability insurance for 2019, which was submitted by the Government, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142 MPs, against - no one. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miladin Ševarlic, at a session at 13 o'clock and 18 minutes on 23 October, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – one. I find he's not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 25 October at 12 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(4). Rules of Procedure. Please plead. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 25 October at 13 o'clock and 4 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Ljupka Mihajlovska, at a session on 25 October at 16 o'clock and 9 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure. Please state whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. Finalising vote: yes – no one. National MP Borisav Kovacevic, at a session on 29 October at 12 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Members, as we have discussed all points of the agenda of this session and the decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you.
