ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60633	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 91 MPs are present in the O.R. and that we have conditions for further work. We're continuing our work. We move on to a search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PANTS LAW. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment, Ambassador Alexander Seselj submitted. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law and it can be immediately concluded from the law that this is another law to be passed under the EU's recommendation. However, when it comes to the EU and when it comes to this area, we cannot argue that in this area they are above us and that some of their solutions should be applied but not applied in the right way. It is not disputed that this intellectual property is protected. It's perfectly normal, because we've had situations where there's been a lot of abuse in this regard, but this law also speaks of patents, let's say within one company, one company, one employer. It is said there that some contracts are signed on if one of the people who participated in the direct process of production has improved some things, so he should sign a contract to protect his innovation, his invention. However, the signing of such a contract does not guarantee that there will really be protection or intellectual property security, and I therefore believe that this amendment of mine, which I asked to define in another, more precise and better way, should be adopted. However, the government has not adopted this amendment, but I think it should have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60635	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go. Please, next time you're talking in the microphone, I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60636	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. So, Article 7. The patent law prescribes what findings are panthetic, as well as what is considered to be a finding. So patent is the right to be recognised for finding out from any area of technology, which is new, has an inventive level and is industrially applicable. Also, the same law prescribes which items cannot be protected by patents as well as activities that are not panthetic. We therefore conclude that the patent cannot be recognised for the intended items or activities that are excluded from such a type of protection. Also, if we take into account the European Patent Convention, Articles 52 and 53 are currently regulating these issues, so what are patentable inventions and what are the exceptions to patentability. We can see through the analysis of these provisions why the government has actually given the opinion that this amendment is being rejected, which I agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60637	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60638	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 2 is talking about when the patent ceases to exist, let's say this Gilasova, School TV, N1 and Nova S, what they patented when they cease to exist, debts will remain to suppliers in Serbia, and profits are long gone. These are the fake cross-border televisions, which like that brother-in-law, serve by pumping out the subscription and money that they receive via "Cas Media" from commercials in Serbia. It is in the region about 500m euros, of which more than 60% are in Serbia. Then don't be surprised where Gilasu 619m euros came from. There is strong evidence that Solak's United Media has transferred millions and millions of euros to the Darrekt Media, which has recently been linked to the arrest of some people from the Darekt Media, has shown that it is still behind the form. What is this patent when, for example, NovaS TV broadcasts in Serbia without having previously implemented it for the Luxembourg market, or for viewers in Slovenia, where they claim to broadcast the programme. How is it that re-emission without broadcasting I would like the state authorities to tell me and explain to me, since that's how this Solak, Đilas, SBB, "Darekt", "United Media", "Adria News", Jugoslav Ćosic, Duke of Luxembourg, business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60639	He's got a word, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60640	Thank you, Chairman. As part of the broader debate on the patent bill, I would refer to what the previous speaker was talking about, the distinguished counterpart Risticevic who proposed this amendment and cited some examples in this regard, I could add that N1 television in this way actually patented a way to play the law. She patented a way to make fun of the law. She patented a way to avoid paying taxes to the Republic of Serbia and thanks to our colleague Vladimir Djukanovic, who was visiting the other day on this famous N1 TV, we all had the opportunity to see what it looked like in practice. Well, that unfortunate leader and confused himself on that occasion, so he couldn't explain whether they were broadcasting, whether they were re-emitting, how it worked, what reminded me of that movie and that famous replica -- that I was a musician, yes, I'm not a musician, and then he said again, "I'm a musician." For all these reasons, I would like to support the amendment of the previous speaker and to support him in the appeal that the competent authorities deal more with it, to say, the shamefully ousting of the law of the Republic of Serbia, this N1 television that has actually turned into a machine for political propaganda of this group around the Alliance for Serbia and the predecessors in all those attacks on the Serbian government, on SNS and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60641	The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60642	Thank you. Mr President, the Honorable Ministers, the amendment should not be accepted, but what I want to say is that this law is not in line with European legislation, but this member of the law agrees with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that is with Article 100(2). The law on general administrative procedure which regulates the termination of proceedings in specific situations, including when it comes to death. What I'm trying to say is that the law on amendments to patent laws and how it contributes to the legal certainty of those investors who come to Serbia, invests with modern machines, with modern, modern machines that have modern technological achievements. I would like to stress that unlike the yellow tycoon company, which completely destroyed the Serbian industry, 400,000 workers were left without early jobs. Unlike them, the government of Aleksandr Vukic, Aleksandar Vukic himself, as president, is working to re-industrize the Republic of Serbia. As an example, I have to name the municipality from which I come, and this is the Municipality of Priboj, which thanks, first of all, to Alexander Vukic, was built an industrial zone in which nine companies operate. There are investors, with the most modern machines, from Turkey, from Sweden, from the Netherlands, as well as domestic investors with the most modern technology. In January of this year, a domestic investor, the company Inmold from Požega, came to employ 100 workers. Otherwise, it's a company with a state-of-the-art, so-called. CNC machines and the production of robots, as well as tools for spraying plastics and colored metals. This is how the government is responsible, that is what our President Aleksandar Vukic is doing, making every effort for investor security, but also for the legal certainty of all those who will deal with inventions and patents in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60643	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60644	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the laws passed with the intention of improving the situation in the area, in Serbia. It is normal for every democratic country, as Serbia is and ultimately seeking to be a democratic country, to pass such laws. We must enable our inventors, our scientists, the people who are innovators, the creators, to be able to realize all these inventions here. We can't let anything happen to us in the past be that our most valuable, most important people go to America, Germany and other countries, and they realize what they've created. The greatest inventions in the last century, which led to the rebirth of the entire human society, were the inventions of Tesla, Pupin and our scientists, and we lost it unconsciously and unsolicitedly. There's one other thing. We must not give up much to Europe, and because of it, we must make a variety of laws, because it all goes to some extent to our harm. I am taking the opportunity to have Minister Djordjevic there, so I will now say something, which I believe he will be interested in and that he will be one of our ministers who will try to get in the way of such phenomena. In the last month, I've been approached by a dozen citizens who have a problem with this species. They're getting a phone call from some people and they're asking them to come in for free checks. They're picking up a few addresses. One of the addresses is Dragica Pravica, the other is the Duke of Muscle, the third is somewhere on Starry, they didn't tell me the street. Approximately, it's a San Hill firm or something that invites them to come for free checks. Now, when someone gets interested in these citizens and asks what kind of company it is, which is a company, they get the answer that these are foreign companies, the biggest experts. What kind of tests are you doing? What tests are you doing? Everything, whatever it takes, there's no problem. Do you have permission to work here? Well, I guess we do, we don't. On the other hand, when asked which doctors they are, they say they are not doctors, but experts, top experts in these areas. Individuals say that when they went there, they couldn't see who was doing, what they were doing, but that they were some organizations dealing with certain things that were not in accordance with the law, which are not in principle purest, or most likely hiding some sects or other organisations that had bad intentions. Now, here we must be smart and wise, to protect our people from such phenomena and rely on our forces, to try to keep Serbia as it is, a fair, fair country, in which citizens can live with dignity from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60645	Thank you. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard, from the promoters, that the aim of this law is to improve the situation in the area of patents and that the aim, as you say, is to prevent brain drains, to prevent those most educated, most capable, who are innovators, to go abroad, to use their inventions, register and to make some other countries the ones that have benefited from it. I have carefully read this law and carefully read and explained, and I must say that I was very unpleasantly surprised and that is something that the general public certainly does not know, how many patents are registered in Serbia every year, small. Here, according to the data we received with the draft law in 2017, i.e. the first year of 2016 – 191 patent applications, in 2017 173 patent applications, even less, in 2018 162 applications. So, anyway, a very small number of patents, i.e. patent applications, decreases rapidly from year to year. I fear that your declared goal and that you're expressing some good wishes, that it won't really be enough. You say there will now be legal certainty between him who instills something and his employer, and you hope that there will be more patents in the economy. Legal certainty existed before, because there was a law. You're making changes today, you're changing laws, you're changing certain provisions, there's not a single fundamental change, there's no big improvement, you're going to agree to that. So somewhere there's a bit of a scenic dress, there's a change of words. I would ask the minister to explain to me specifically which of these provisions that are changing will contribute that, as we have heard from the previous speaker, young, educated, intellectuals, that they remain to report patents in Serbia, that they and the business entities in which they work benefit themselves? What is this increase in the number of patents you expect? So let's measure somehow in a year, two, three, relative to the goal given what it is that you've managed to do. So, you know, one absurd situation, you say -- it'll be better, so whatever happens, your standard -- that's the best possible solution. Let's measure it in particular, let's see what are the concrete and precise effects of the law that you expect, and then, in a year or two days, when, I'm sure, it's either changing and supplementing this law or adopting some new law on this area, and then we can talk more specifically and we know what the effect is, and what is what you promised and what is left.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60647	On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Zoran Despotović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60648	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, the amendment of the SRS refers to Article 2 of Article 43(1). The basic law, the text ‘to heirs or legal followers of the right holder’, replaces the words ‘to heirs, or legal followers of the right holder’, with the reason that the amendment is in accordance with the previous amendment. In this draft law, the emphasis is on civil law protection, and all with the aim of establishing a more efficient system of protection of invention, a better system of use and intellectual property. Intellectual property increases, as is known, the value of the company. In this respect, the employer also has the right to the necessary legal certainty, and the interests of the employee are not impaired. The point of these changes and the addition is that the employer will be the one on whose name the patent will be protected, but the employees will also have the right to be recognized as the creator of this invention, which means that the solution to which the law guarantees the employed protection of his moral right to be recognised as the creator of the invention he created. That act would give the inventor an asset right to compensation, which is quite correct and fair. Serbia's radical break considers it necessary to protect the interests of both employers and employees when patents were found in a working relationship. We need to protect the inventors so they don't leave our country and take them in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60649	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60650	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, when we talk about patents, inventions and innovations, successful entrepreneurs can be those who haven't invented anything new, but every entrepreneur at first is thinking in two directions, doing something first or doing it much better than others. Those who are in a position to do something first are innovators. It could be that they copied someone's idea and brought it to a territory where it hasn't been represented yet. Those who manage to do something much better than others, their jobs and the market build on the work of those who were the predecessor, or innovator, and everything that the innovator has ignored, those who follow him focus on that and can threaten him in the business. I think it's the most pronounced in technology companies. But between these two models, there's room for a very successful business and no revolutionary events. However, innovation can also be a small change in the process of production, the way of promotion or the introduction of some new materials. The Internet is full of ideas and can find something that can contribute to its business and make business easier and increase profits. Therefore, it is always necessary to seek the papers and be open to new inventions that are most often created by the employees themselves. This law will regulate this area, and it will be an incentive for the innovators to start implementing their ideas in action, and the economy can benefit only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60651	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60652	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister with the co-workers of the Ministry, this amendment is not accepted. It should be rejected for the simple reason that the language interpretation of the word comes to mean that word and or, which is not the purpose of that provision. What I'd pay attention to and what I'd celebrate, and that's what I do in every speech, is that no less land, no more smart people. Well, let's just remember Nikola Tesla. So, Nikola Tesla, mind of minds, my favorite, then Mileva Einstein, and Michael Pupin, and this great air-conditioned Milankovic. But someone said how many patents? Do we know how many patents he has? Well, there's a lot of patents. Here's a few examples. Nikola Cvejin - patented five of his inventions, Stefan Vela - 22 of his inventions. That's what I was talking about last time. Milos Radovic, a young scientist, finder, currently working on a "smart hand", accessible to touch-sensitive, adaptable disabled. He wants to stay in Serbia, continue working with his projects. He even refused a prestigious scholarship from the Bosch. Good for Milosh! The study company abroad aims to make its invention financially accessible to people from the Balkans. That's what young scientists in Serbia do. Interesting fact. Last year Milosa was invited by the car factory Fiat, the controversial Fiat factory, which is not at all controversial, to look at the broken robot on the production strip and he successfully fixed it. Next, Ostora Rajic. Staying Rajic is one of the gentlemen who deals with renewable energy sources, it is his passport. Imagine, young man. One of his inventions even turns seawater into a drink. Dry genius, which extracts salt that can be used in the diet and makes electricity throughout the process. It is currently developing a small flow water heater that will help save energy. Mr. Ostova is struggling with stained vessels for all inventors in Serbia and is asking to be treated as smart entrepreneurs whose inventions can open many jobs in production and sales, as well as to put Serbia on the map of the world. That's how responsible authorities do it, that's how new inventors in Serbia do it. Good for them! I will continue to follow the amendments, to talk about strong minds that are not mentioned in Serbia, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60653	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60654	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member is talking about profits. Earnings and patents are a strange thing. How did Jugoslav Cosic, the Duke of Luxembourg, patent a salary of 4,000 euros to his neighbors of 3,000 euros from a company that is losing between six and seven and a half million euros? What founder pays the director 4,000 euros patently for making him lose? I don't believe Solak is such a merciful man. I don't believe he gives up 4,000 easily. It's gonna be like he's paying the director to pump his minuses. First, they pump out all the money from the subscription and advertising from Serbia's territory via SBB, United Group and United Media. They pump all that up in Luxembourg and what islands and then send their spokesman money for wages, because they're fat wages and he doesn't care that he's making minuses of six and a half to seven and a half million euros, because, in the end, it's patented. In the extreme case of loans paid for by N1 TV will guarantee their assets – cameras, installation, building. So, with all their assets, Solak will charge for the loan, and a debt of seven and a half million euros will remain for suppliers who supply "Adria News" and N1 TV. So the debts will again remain Serbia, profits and profits come out of Serbia. He is the only lucky winner of Yugoslavia's Ćosic and team because he is a spokesman for the Šolakova and Gilas business dams. As much as Boštic, Žutić, Ljotic, participates in this patent, we still have to find out, since I don't believe he does anything free of charge and that he is free of charge for Solakov and Gilas businesses, and I have proof that the Šolakov firm paid Djas 10 and a half million euros to Djosov, I don't know what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60655	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60656	Thank you, President. I'm going to reach out to my colleague, Marijan Rističević. So, we are also in the principle debate and, behold, today we are talking about this bill in terms of importance for the economy, in the context of direct influence on all economic operators that create innovation within working relationships. The aim certainly is to create a better business environment, a higher level of legal certainty for domestic economic operators, but also for foreign investors. Since 2012, one of the results has been Serbia's first place in attracting foreign direct investment. What happened to the economy by 2012? Among other things, we can see that on the PKB case, which we're talking about these days. Borko Stefanovic was talking about the PKK. He's got some objections. The same one, Borko Stefanovic, was in power from 2011 to 22013 at a high position in the foreign ministry. It was during that period that the state wrote off 80m euros in debt to the PKK. That, ladies and gentlemen, was paid by the citizens of Serbia. As mayor of 2011, Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade, was appointed by the General Director of the PKK, who in just two years in charge of the PKK for 20m euros, and finally remained more than 40m euros in debt. That's the truth that Serbian citizens deserve. If they had taken care of the state, it would have been different. However, according to these latest announced investigations into their affairs, it seems that they only cared about their personal budgets. Otherwise, today, from the sale price of the PKK, all creditors are calmed down, employees have received a social programme, and the company has been given a new chance to operate. Thus, it is the responsibility of the SNS-led authority, unlike the government that existed until 2012, whose remains are now persistently trying to manipulate citizens by making lies and deceptions as they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60657	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60658	When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents and to recall how little time there is and how the Minister of Resolute explained this bill and unfortunately, obviously, the comments of today's MPs that will support this law, they see patents as just some source of income, and so they are regulated by the law. Whether it is worth it to an employer to buy, conditionally speaking, the patent of his employee or not, and the patent is not at all considered an intellectual property at all, which is actually the essence, and through this law, first of all, it was necessary to protect the intellectual property of anyone who owns a patent, anyone who invented something that could be currently less than or greater useful in this economic sense. And now the MPs here are praised by some great minds and scientists from our past. Of course, there's nothing controversial about it, but what's happening in the present? How many young people, we read, are minors daily to the media, how many young people are involved in science, who invented some new achievements, who were willing to make their patent offers in Serbia, but, in Serbia, most of all, there is no understanding of such things. There is no understanding of science, nor of intellectual property and the problem of this law is that in the right way it does not deal with patents, which does not actually see them as intellectual property, but I repeat only as a source of income, so if someone invents something that the employer can quickly earn from and still account for through this law, whether he invented it in working time or out of working time, as if a man could do science for five or seven hours a day, and then when he goes home, he is no longer a scientist and is not a team. These things have been dealt with for 24 hours and therefore this law is not good, and therefore this amendment and the rest of our amendments, and it would really be good for both this and this next law to be done thoroughly, completely new bill proposals and to place intellectual property in Serbia in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60659	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word after the amendment has Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60660	Thank you. I was inspired by the discussion of Commissioner Verica Radete on this amendment and in some things I can agree with it, but indeed in most of its presentation I cannot agree that the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia is not paying attention, therefore, to the scientific community and that we do not care about science. This is not true and the results of the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the overall results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as regards these areas are immeasurably more significant than the previous period. We have a period behind us in which the previous government has even tried to destroy the Vinci Science Institute and there is a number of evidence in which the state cannot speak so much for the reasons of some special state secrets, but the evidence, thank God, exists about the functioning of earlier authorities. I can't agree with you, with this ever-accepted flossule that there are young people in this country now suddenly starting to leave because the state, for example, doesn't care about patents that, possibly, they might find and that in the right sense these words and patent in our country because you used a really rough sentence that the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about patents. Where did you get that? It's the easiest thing to say, but it's hard to prove. As far as I know, our country is, I don't dispute the big problem of our country that professional people are leaving for bigger profits, but it's nothing specific. For Serbia alone, such movements are obvious throughout our region. For example, the Republic of Croatia is ahead of it, and then other EU members, where Poles go to the UK or Germany, where Romania, Bulgaria, is empty. It's not something that simplifies it, so Serbia doesn't care, so it's only leaving Serbia. After all, we've always been a migrant state and then how do we interpret the fact that in the United States, Canada, Australia, Germany, Switzerland, there are already third or fourth generations of our emigrants, if this is now some specific phenomenon lately? As for the part of your discussion, too, that people find patents, and this article defines something a little bit better, because these are changes and additions, what does it mean to find and be the creator of a patent if you work in a scientific institution where it's possible to discover a patent? You've forgotten that it's not just intellectual property, but it's something that's been found, discovered, patented within the profession and the workplace they're in. We cannot forget the state's contribution, the contribution of these institutes, the scientific and educational institutions, the opportunities that scientists are given to reveal patents within their jobs and within what is offered to them in that workplace. It is a very delicate matter in which it is necessary to measure well what an individual would do if he did not work in that institution and that there is no such material opportunity, what he would do at home or beyond the borders of this country, and what he could do when he does, for example, at a scientific institute such as Vinci, which gives him all the logistics that he can develop his capacities, so he receives a salary. They're not volunteers there, they're getting their salary, they're working there, and they're allowed to do their job in the institute labs. Then they patent it as something that's exclusively theirs, and an institute like Vinci who gave them everything to find out that patent, should be left with nothing. I don't agree with that, as I disagree with that, well, we are now leaving a lot of people, but our country should consider tightening the conditions of departure when we invest in the education of highly skilled personnel. Where is Serbia then? Do you know what it costs to educate a doctor, a doctor, a medical profession? No one thinks about it, we talk about people leaving and we don't give them anything. We provide them with schooling. Do you know how much it costs in the West in those countries they go to? So we have to think about how much Serbia invests, how much it invests in healthcare workers, how much it invests in the education of a scientist who goes after because, of course, it has a much higher salary, but also much higher costs, if it doesn't live in Serbia, if it lives in a developed country. Then it's around here somewhere. You take credit for the car, for the house, for the apartment. We all know what life looks like in some more developed countries than Serbia. Anyway, let's think about how the state can protect itself. Yet the state has invested something in those people who are leaving, and now it's one popular topic and we're all talking about it under the brake, because it's popular to talk about it, so someone's going to vote for us. Let's talk about how the state can protect itself, how to maintain our capacity, how much money we invest in these professional personnel, who, when they get the papers, get a doctorate, verify their diplomas and go abroad. It's not just a one-sided story about someone leaving. Someone also uses the benefits of the Republic of Serbia for a much cheaper education than they could afford to live in the United States, for example. Let them ask the parents of these children who spend their whole lives giving away money to afford their kids college, and after college some study, and for many it's really abstract, almost impossible to educate their children, to be doctors, to be engineers, to be physicists, to graduate from the school of technical sciences, chemistry, etc., and to finish high school. It's very expensive out there. We're thinking, of course, and we're doing everything we can to keep these people in our own country, if they want to stay. Since 1945, from thirty and some, you just go away, go away and go away. We are such a country and such a people, and therefore we have many diaspora, which is not only a diaspora from 2000 to today, but is a diaspora, indeed, I say, I know generations, four generations now of our people born abroad. So it's not a new phenomenon, and the patent doesn't just belong to whoever patented it. It belongs to both the institute and the scientific institution within which, from which the patent came out, because they got at the workplace all the opportunities to create. Therefore, this must indeed be true, that these scientific institutions, which today lead and disputes against their employees, who claim that they have managed to do so, invent some patent only thanks to their genius. Then let their genius try to accomplish somewhere beyond these scientific institutions and institutes, to see that it's simply impossible. So I'm asking you not only to go populist, so we're just rooting because in the paper it's modern now that whoever jumps into the Republic of Serbia, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to support the opposition, but to protect our country and our resources. We train them, we give them the opportunity to discover patents, and that's why the state has the right to share and these scientific institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60661	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60662	Popular topics can be attributed absolutely to everyone except the SRS. We've never used popular and populist topics and it's really common knowledge. A lot of things Mrs. Gojkovic just said I didn't even mention. I was not talking about mass eviction, nor was I talking about Serbia leaving anything more now than it was in previous years or what would be next years. Of course, Mrs Gojkovic got a little mixed up when she talked about the diaspora where four generations of Serbs are now born in the white world, it's a diaspora, it's the descendants of the Chetniks, who had to leave these premises in time. It had nothing to do with what we were talking about. How many states are investing in experts, in doctors, we talked about it yesterday, and just us from the SRS, we've turned our attention to how the state could and what it should do to keep these young people, to keep the experts. You say - how much does a country cost a doctor? And imagine how much a doctor costs in Serbia, especially those who study from the inside at university centres and those who live in universities that are university centers? Do you know what every parent's cost is or who's already worried about funding a medical student? That's a lot. But the problem is, and yesterday we talked about it, which is amazing that we in Serbia today have a doctor, and a lot of doctors at the Employment Fund, unemployed. That's the problem. The problem is that our young doctors are now paying for specialist studies themselves. There were these two actions, we said yesterday, when they were employed by those best medical students and that's great, but there's still a lot of finished doctors who are on so-called. The work bureau and who do not stand a chance because they do not have the consent of the ministry, health institutions to accept them, because it is still not mentioned that a ban on employment in the public sector will be lifted. These are the real problems within which patent problems and those that invent these patents can be talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60663	Thank you. Right on line, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60664	Thank you. Just for a little while. Not only did the descendants of the Chetniks or, rather, members of the royal army leave, many who disagreed with the communist regime of Josip Broz Tito and the Communist Party of Yugoslavia left mass. The largest wave of migrants, and what was said earlier, of the gaster, was during Tito's rule and the rule of the communists, who simply accelerated the policy of departure and thus resolved some social peace in our country. These were rivers and tens of thousands of people were going to work in Germany, going to work in Austria, some parts of Serbia were gravitating towards France, many were leaving, and Serbs and Albanians, working in Switzerland, Croatians were going to Sweden. Many Serbs went, say, to work in the 1950s in Switzerland as dentists. So it can't be said that something outrageous is happening right now. Parents have always been killed. Parents always get hurt because they want the best for their child. That, too, is nothing new. You can imagine how the parents who were trying to educate their children were killed also in Tito's regime and during the Communist Party, after World War II, if they were in prisons, and the wives stayed with the children to support the children, and these are now honest and honest people who finished colleges. You know that example yourself in the case of my family. Imagine those times, as it was terrible to be an opponent of a regime, of a political party, and to have a desire to educate your child in Belgrade, and cannot be admitted to a home because there are no political recommendations issued, or political similarities, because his dad was in prison. So it's also nothing epochal in this country, except that there's no political marking of children who can, who can't go to school and whose parents have more or less money, but there's one social separation on people who have more money, on those who have, let's say, the civil layer of the 1990s is gone, and so there's some people with lower incomes or poor people. As far as specialization is concerned, as far as employment is concerned, whether this memory cheats on me, but, as far as I know, every year, the president of the state and Minister of Loncar in hundreds of jobs, young doctors, allow and receive specializations. Let's see where this is the state of that West where it's been going so massively lately, as you say, and it's not very mass yesterday and the exact number was taken out, where the state gives them the job. Come on, tell me, where this state of hundreds and hundreds of jobs like this on the plate gives, in Serbia, yes. In Serbia, that and, as you heard the creature, it is not only an announcement, there will really be an increase in salaries for nurses and doctors and every year it increases as much as Serbia can. We can't compete with Germany, with Sweden, with the Netherlands, with Switzerland, and neither did they have sanctions, nor were they bombed. We can't be expected to be Switzerland, when Switzerland from William Telle fired no bullets. Normally, they go to more developed countries, where everything is arranged, but those countries haven't had blood sanctions in 10 years, and those countries haven't been bombed, where everything's been destroyed. My town, Novi Sad, where I am, is literally devastated. We are some strange people and some strange state, as a phoenix we are born again and again we are a country in a region that is a role model for many. That's what we are, I guess that's why Serbia's symbol is the Raymond, that flower that needs two drops of water, and it's born again. That's Serbia. We're back on our feet, and young people will be leaving less and less, it won't stop forever, it hasn't stopped for tens of years. Not to measure from before the First World War, to measure from World War II, they're leaving all over Europe. If we are and when we are a member of the EU, we will again be in that circle where some will come and some will leave. Don't be like that. Don't be like that. The minister himself has a lot of data. We're working on making this country much better. After a lot of trouble, it's not easy for us now, and we're the only country in Europe that gets a piece of territory. If we were left alone, we'd only devote ourselves to education, just science, we'd only devote ourselves to an increase in wages, if we didn't have any more problems, to us at the same time that we're strengthening the state economically, when we're strengthening the country's politically large part of the country takes away some of the territory. So it's not true that it's all our fault. I listened to your discussion yesterday. We're better than the last ones. Oh, we're the best. We're the best. So far, such a valuable government and such a president of the state has not been in Serbia, that someone is working day and night to make it better. So we expect understanding from political parties no matter what political discourse we are, that we are all working on being better, so when the situation is better in the country, then we can differ in some finesse, that left-wings, I don't know, pay a little more attention to culture, science, environmental protection, education, etc., and then those who are moderately right-wing pay more attention to other things. This is how parties in Europe are shared, in countries where no one outside is taking anything, and we have to work together to solve some problems together. There's a difference between Alexander Vukic and the difference between Gilas, Alexander who works and Gilas who does everything to make it harder for us to prevent young people from leaving this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60665	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60666	We don't need to compare this power to the previous one, but we said yesterday, and here we will do it again today, when you insist that they were much worse than you before, but that doesn't mean that this power is good. You can't make us say that, because there's really a lot of places, respecting the objective reasons you've been talking about, but there's a lot of places where you can do much better and more effectively. You said it again - mass eviction. None of us ever mentioned mass eviction. We hope that mass eviction from no part of Serbia will ever be, and we do not want that anyway. That some people go where they think they're better, they go, they go, and they're going, and that's not at all what I was talking about at the very beginning of this debate. It is unacceptable to have unemployed doctors, because it is the fact that more and more doctors are leaving Serbia, is the fact that the average age of doctors in Serbia is very high. The truth is, of course, someone can't be a good doctor and a good specialist if he doesn't have a significant number of years. You can't become a doctor just by finishing medical school and we all know that. It's got to be made possible for every... It is unacceptable for doctors today, young people who have graduated from medical school, to volunteer for a year or two without a single dinar’s compensation. That's what we're talking about. It is not disputed that two actions were taken to hire a doctor, two actions were, I mean, once a hundred, twice 70 doctors, and nobody slows it down and nobody says it's bad. It's bad why it didn't make sure that all doctors were employed, because people in the area say the problem is that our doctors are getting older, that we should wait, because these young doctors who got specializations should wait at least five years, the specialist doesn't become in a month. We all know that. It's not something... Let's not let someone have to do it on their own, that I don't know how, how, how, for parents to raise loans, sell real estates, etc. to allow these young doctors to enroll in specialist studies. It's still happening. It's not just what we looked at in the media, the 170 doctors who were admitted, who got specializations, who were the best students and that's good, we repeat, but it has to spread a little beyond what you see on television. We also talked about it yesterday. There is a life in Serbia that is not seen on television, which is seen in communication with people, which we all see in our environment of relatives, friends, neighbors, whoever. The beginning of this debate started with the patent law and the mention of Vince. You know, in Vinci, problems aren't solved today. Our president held a conference with scientists from Vinca, I think, somewhere else in 2015, and Filip Vukajlovic was one of the participants of the conference. The problems that exist in Vinci haven't been solved yet. I think you know that, too. We're not gonna say he's not trying to solve anything, but he's still far from the solution. You know, you make the wrong staff choice, like that director who robbed Vinci, who gave her unwed wife an enormously high salary, and we're talking about whether scientists should be paid in Vinci. Yes, of course you should. Of course, those in Vinci do everything about their work is about science and, of course, that and what they spend at work and working time is about science. That's where the people are scientists.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60667	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on the line of Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60668	I want to react because you brought one charge against the account of former Director Vince, who is absolutely untrue. You have to bring evidence here and say that she robbed Mrs. Marchetta Vinci. It's a lie. It's an absolute lie. First she didn't hire her husband there. The husband worked for years before the spin in one or two daily magazines, i.e. two daily newspapers and large money was otherwise allocated for the campaign against the former director, precisely because she wanted to make order at the institute based on a report from the State Auditing Commission. That's why she died. And the woman resigned with honor, because she wanted to show that she didn't care about the position of director. And there's another fundamental problem in Vinci. And you'll see, and now a new director has been elected. I wish her all the best in the place. I know he's got good intentions, V.D. He's the director. She'll have big problems if she insists on making order and putting things in place at the Vinci Institute. He's gonna have a lot of problems. She'll be attacked again by the same group. She'll spin again. He'll make something up against her. And what you've brought is a heavy unargumented charge. The offence has not been filed against either her husband or her former director, Vince. It's just that the group that made the move against her was happy that she resigned, so they stopped. As they lifted their heads thinking she'd be re-established, they were surprised she's the new director. They announced against her this or that. There's a core of people out there who don't want the Vinch Institute well. I guarantee it. I know a lot of things. I know what's going on there, deep down. And it's not a question of science and carelessness. It's a question of something else. And don't just look at Vinci as a scientific institution. There are many actions that seem to be a problem for some, and they fear for the outcome of their actions. That's why I'm telling you, we need to give it to you. There's a woman at the head of the Institute again. That's why I wish her much, much success. Because if only Vinci was a question of science, it would be easy for her. But since the Vincha Institute seems to be a question of everything and everything won't be easy for her at all. But I want her not to give in to the hickeys and insist on it, and she won't resign by any chance. It's a coincidence he doesn't resign. Here I am going to give her public support every time, because the first one was driven away in a terrible and inappropriate way. And none of the scientists said one word to protect that woman, who left and whose husband didn't do anything. Well, I guess I'd have had six, seven months of criminal charges. As she resigned, no one mentioned him anywhere else, either her or him. They mentioned them ten days ago, when they may have suspected it, maybe she comes back. And you'll see such tendencies in some individual newspapers and you know for yourself where it came out, how they think something's going to happen, and that's very indicative in which the paper comes out, they jump on them preventively. They see they're not chosen and retreat. I want a new director in d.o.b. I'm the director of the best of luck. We as a parliament, if we want well to the Vinci Science Institute with which the state has really serious plans, want to use them in the right way, to make there and the scientific and technological park, we should all give, indeed, support and expertise, and to others who are involved in politics or who are scared for what they did in Vinci for a time, and for what will soon be revealed I will not give support, nor will I succumb to the halls of individual media, where as soon as they jump we all have to be on their side. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have to be on anyone's side, but only justice and truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60669	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60670	Just for a little while, maybe before the findings. I think it is indisputable for Mrs Gojkovic and me that there are problems in Vinca, such as the undisputed resolution of these problems. I just said that problems are known from before and that we pointed them out in 2015 and certainly everyone who tries to solve a problem, such as the problems in Vinci, and less we know what they are, certainly everyone in the country will give support to solving such problems. That's why it's about time, you know, it's been a long time since there's known problems with Vinci, since the government changed, and the problems still exist. So, let's hurry up and solve these problems and draw the line and say, the problems were you, you and you, and that's why that one, that one and that one, that one, and that one, draw the line and we keep on doing science in Vinci, which is the job of that institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60671	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60672	I thank the chairman. According to the amendment, and in light of what my colleague, President Maja Gojkovic said. You know what, when we talk about patents, we have to be extremely realistic. So, the number of patents per million population in Serbia is 39, in one Germany 500, and in South Korea and Japan over 2000. So in order to have a large number of patents as a state, for example in Croatia is twice as much as with us, over 60, so the state has to create an environment so that young researchers can simply work. In order for them to work, they must be employed by employers and report as a patent, as something new, inventors must register at the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property and must stand for them a certain legal person. According to this amendment, this member to whom you have submitted the amendment as a proposing stands exactly what is very important for this law, which is that the legal person, or employer you work with, should be the owner of that patent. If it isn't, then there really is a market for paying for the purchase of patents, without having to pay off, let's say by that legal person where the researcher is and is employed. That is why, you will remember, even during the old Yugoslavia, there was a very large number of purchases of young researchers, without the consent of employers they worked with, and so we came to the point that developed countries, EU member states have a very large number of patents, because they ultimately have more developed economies and based on these developed economies a higher standard and pay for young researchers and buy as a finished product. Exactly what Mrs Gojkovic said, it is very important that we have a registration of employers and states about how many patents we have, because if it wasn't for South Korea and Japan, we wouldn't have 2,000 patents per million people today. That's why systems are developed in general information technologies, new industrial solutions, the fourth industrial revolution. They just belong to these developed countries which, by the number of inhabitants you see, are not as large. So they're not guys like Germany, America, Russia, but South Korea has 51 million inhabitants, so multiply the times of 2,000 patents, so you'll see where their economy is, and where their economy is, say, members of EU countries and where their growth rates are, and where the growth rates of these countries have patents. So Serbia is going through the development of knowledge management, when we are talking about economy at all. That's why we brought this together yesterday, what we talked about, the dual education, learning through work, we brought the economy together, we put the colleges together, but that's why we want to keep our inventors and inventions, precisely because we want to keep young people in Serbia. And we will keep them safe with this kind of approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia, and we are essentially actively working on the fact that young researchers stay here in Serbia and have the ambition to work here with our employers. Whether they're foreign or domestic employers, it doesn't matter. It is important that they are in Serbia and that these patents be owned by the Republic of Serbia. That's why an amendment that breaks down a concept like this just doesn't have to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60673	Thank you, colleague Tomic. By amendment, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60674	The Serbian Radical Party in its amendments wants to protect patent authors. So he wants to protect the individual. We are witnesses that those who are inventors, those who are the creators of patents, here in this system as it is formed and this bill can damage them, can be kind of discriminated against. Why? Because we Serbian radicals always have good examples from the past. Gentlemen, in Galennica, many of our doctors, pharmacists, on the basis of the goodwill of their scientific contribution worked on the development of many medicines, not a small number. They didn't think there could be any transformation at the time, so they didn't end up, after all, even the law wasn't exactly accurate, they protected their authorship, they didn't protect their patent. Now we have the situation that Galenika is privatized, those people who are the creators of these medications that are still produced in Galenika have remained deprived, and foreign capital, i.e. the buyer of Galenika, enjoys the benefits against all logic in terms of the profits that it generates by producing and selling these medicines that our doctors, our pharmacists have produced. These stories that companies in which they work have only been partially correct. Thinking is right. The patent, in general innovation, invention, is a matter of brains, achievements and experiences of individuals or groups of individuals, and what he does in that workplace, it only contributes to his knowledge being expressed in improving everything he does and what others do. There's a logic here that where the company works, it all belongs, and it doesn't belong to whoever created that patent. And he can decide whether he will sign a contract with the company he is working on and give his copyright in some way or be compensated, not automatically said - by the company or the state. What's this all about? Where is it in the world? It's nowhere in the world. What would it be like only in the field of medicine to apply that logic? It is said - cardiosurgeon specialization is done thanks to the use of funds, rooms and everything that enables him by state or institute and you, gentlemen, as cardiosurgeons, can't just ignore it, you would have to do it when you leave or anything else, to make up for the state. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense to think. In this way, individuals are stimulated to deal with innovation, to have as many patents as possible and to use as many patents as possible. This logic that the colleague states, Japan, Korea and others, colleagues, is exactly how we Serbian radicals talk to you -- the protection of individuals' rights, that's the essence, not that the company says -- that's what you did because of us. It's just one of the preconditions, and it's not a condition. He could have done it in his shed, in his workshop, how many patents he was working on. There's a debate here about things that are related to individual abilities. I'm talking to you on the Galenika case, and it's a tragedy. It is not a small number of doctors who still live on a pension today that is not very high, and the creators are also authors of many of the drugs that are still produced in Hemofarm, in Galenica and in many factories. They have virtually no right to eventually protect what they have created with their own intelligence and their ability. So we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60675	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60676	Galenika is usually a factory founded in 1945. I understand everything, and political parties change, and times are like that, but we can't and it's unnatural to stay the same. But that from the party I once belonged to, I'm going to hear left-wing views, communist views, it's a surprise to me, that now the Serbian Radical Party is the advocate of that Tito's flossula - factory workers. That's really new to me. Those who were employed not only in factories, anywhere in Serbia, in state-owned companies, in state-owned factories, did not work for wages, so I don't know what they were working for? If you get a job at a state firm, you work for a salary, you get paid less or more. It's natural that all people are unhappy with their salaries, even those who have 200 grand, he thinks he's better off with 250 grand, and those who have very little, it's natural that he tends to have more. But where we work, at state-owned firms, we do our job for which we are employed for wages and for nothing more. Galenika is a state-owned company. Galenika was never a stock company or a stock company, where employees have the right to some profit from their work at pay. You say they could have found it in the shed. Well, why didn't they? So it's a prescription for medicine. It's not a drug patent, but the recipe is. Why didn't they? Why did they get a job at Galenice as pharmacists or as doctors? To get paid, which was small or large, I don't know, I've never been into Galenico, except to buy their products in a pharmacy on the prescription of a doctor who prescribes it to me. But, I'm sorry, this Galenika as a state-owned firm made it possible for that someone you were talking about in general and giving resources. Because in the shed he can't do that, believe me. There's no cure in the shed. Whoever thinks the cure can be found in the sheds, go to the shed and try to find the cure. Galenika gave resources. First of all, none of them found anything on their own. They worked with their colleagues. You're saying now - they're retired. Well, they're retired and they're taking pensions and it's so normal. Here, many of us won't have a pension, so what do we do now? To charge the state that I have some copyright based on being President of Parliament for six or seven years, so I patented something that didn't exist before? I'm getting paid for this job. These people here in the hallways that you meet and that allow us to work, to have a session, get paid for it. The bus driver, so he's not the bus owner, he's got a job at the City Traffic Company, and he's getting paid for it, which is why there are salaries. That's the way it is in private companies. You're not the co-owner of the company if someone takes you into that company. It is a communist way of thinking – factory workers. The state has paid salaries, the state gives pensions, the privateer pays salaries. If you're not satisfied with the private salary, you're going to look for another job. I don't understand anything you're saying, except that it's really a kind of pulsism and that we're yelling -- factory workers, because we all have some kind of south-west. I don't have it, I'm not a communist and I don't have junostalgia and I like what the state looks like right now. The state should be modern and look like all other European countries in which these people who are unhappy that they can't patent something, because they got paid for what they did, harder to do. Don't tell me Nikola Tesla invented all this just because she's Nikola Tesla. He's a genius, he didn't accomplish anything in Austria, right, but when he went to the U.S., he became a world-famous scientist. So there's something in this America, too, not all about man's genius. Why didn't he make something up in Austro-Hungarian? So it's connected. But really, if someone who works at a state-run facility in a place where they need to discover prescriptions for drugs, that it's all his property, and that country has none of it, and factories and institutes, I can't agree with that. Because really, give me an example of the discovery of a good recipe, and if it wasn't for this -- buy a piece of plastic, you'll be better, both head and back and elbow, and I don't know what, that was discovered in the shed, not in a serious scientific institution or in a factory, as it was, and as I suppose, and now, "Gallenika", "Hemofarm", etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60677	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Now the word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, it's right to the replica, and then Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60678	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Tesla, if you remember, was in a court dispute with Mr. Markone right about the patents and eventually lost that court dispute. Why did he lose the court dispute? Because he had just achieved his working relationship through a particular company that financed the possibility that he was doing certain research to find new inventions that we say are patents. So we're talking about something that happened almost two centuries ago. When we talk about Mr. Pupin, I'll tell you that he was a very close friend of the American president at the time and he donated his patent to the United States of America, but in return he got to open 100 scientific and research centres in Serbia at the time. So, what I'm trying to tell you is that the inventions are really a question of the relationship between the employer and the researcher. Why? Because based on this article eight, you see here that the researcher informs his employer that he will be involved in finding out, to find opportunities to make a certain kind of contract the kind of relationship he will have, so after his research work and his work done. Unless they agree at first, he has the right to do so for another legal person. The second thing, even if he's done the job, and he's not satisfied with how he solved his contract, he's entitled to the court to claim compensation. But what's important to the state? That he's in the patent register. One China has now reported 1.3 million patents. So, as a state, it's not good that we only have 39 patents per million inhabitants. It would be better to have 60 as Croatia, or 100, or to deal with developed economies, EU member states, but we cannot unless we have this combination of businesses, science, education and easy support for this kind of business. This law is the support of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60679	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Mr. Mircic has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60680	First of all, I don't understand why colleague Gojkovic is even making comparisons with radicals, and he attributes some left-wing ideas to us. She herself knows that the Serbian Radicals Social Programme has been taken over by the Socialists and that is quite clear. It has been taken over by Svetozar Markovic and there, the SRS is always proud to say that we are fighting for respect for the rights of individuals. Roughly explaining, the difference between right-wing and left-wing is that right-wing people see that through the interest of an individual the interests of society and left-handed people through the interests of society to protect the interests of each individual. It is in a rough section, although you have no one to clearly define what is left-wing, and what is a right-wing idea, especially currently in Serbia. What is quite clear here is that because of the lack of understanding and the lack of follow-up of what I was talking about, there have been certain collages. Namely, none of those I spoke of who invented the drugs, and in some ways gave it as their contribution to Galenika was not an employee of Galennica. I can even speak my last name. These are prominent professors who are pediatricians, who are from dentistry, from different fields of medicine, but none were employed at Galennica. It was a social system just like this – factory workers. Now it's privatized. They have no right, no basis to protect their rights, no protection and respect justice for their descendants. Do you realize there's been a transformation from social to private? Only one oversight was made. I hear that a colleague is unclear how he will do it without being employed in Galennica. They worked as pediatricians, they worked as dentists, so they did scientific work, and they didn't work at Galenika, they didn't do it at Galennica, at Galenika, if I'm clear. They worked at a pediatrics clinic in Belgrade, worked on dentistry in Belgrade, worked at the university, were not directly employed in Galennica or pediatrician, nor was dentistry privatised, but Galenika was privatized, gentlemen. They have rights because of the change in ownership, they would have the right to be allowed by the law because of the change in ownership to have some compensation or their descendants, but they did not take care of the rights of individuals and it was not considered to be the result of their intelligence, their knowledge, and not because they had certain conditions. Not all inventions are because you have certain conditions. Then how would Newton's law be settled, how would Newton qualify? Well, he's got an apple on him. Then what would you say? Well, because the apple is owned by England or I don't know who, well, that's why you need England. Don't banalize things like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60681	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60682	I'm not banalizing at all. I'm fighting this kind of discussion right now. You're banalizing. You're banalizing this topic. Wait, we're coming to my discussion again. You just said it yourself - people didn't work at Galennica. So where did they work? Where were they working? In hospitals? Right? You're saying these are some doctors who worked in state hospitals? They've been using state resources again. They got paid for it. People get paid today when they go to work. Do they have the right to receive a prescription for a drug produced by a state-owned Galenika factory once? That right is sought in some other way. They must have evidence that they did it, not the medical facility they worked at, whose resources they used, whether they did it on their own or with their colleagues, I mean, you can't compare Newton to patents and prescriptions and so on, because it's a banalization of the discussion, and then they demand their right to the court. And the heirs? The heirs, if this previous issue has not been resolved and they have not proved that they alone have patented something not now have the right to inherit something that even their first predecessor has not proved that he himself created some kind of patent or intellectual property. You said yourself they didn't do anything private in any private labs, that they worked in medical facilities like doctors, pediatricians, pharmacists, I don't know what. Every month they got paid for it, otherwise I don't know what they were doing in those health care facilities if they weren't busy at those jobs to find prescriptions for certain medications. They didn't work alone and didn't work out of their own money. So, if I were a judge in that case, their successors, if that's the essence of this discussion that you were contacted by a grandson from someone who used to work at a state hospital so he did something for the Galenice account, which was also a state firm, say, let it say, let it go to waste, let it work out of his ten fingers, let it create something, and let it not be called to Grandpa, what Grandpa once created for the salary he was getting, let's say, 45 years in his working century. Therefore, it is clear that someone who has worked in state firms, in the previous period, has no right to claim that he has done something on his own. He made a dubious contribution to our society, but for the salary he received. For the salary he received, nothing more and nothing less. Thank God and nothing less. All those people who used to work had, thank God, and health and social security, and I don't see what the problem is today that some grandkids who want to live off their grandfather's patent showed up. And is it Galenika, do they have some sort of side faces, now some rights in relation to the privatized Galenika? They have no right, and no touch points do these grandchildren have any “Gallenika” activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60683	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word now has Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60684	Good afternoon. First, I want to answer a few questions, because I don't understand them either. We're talking about patents that come from a working relationship and here is the idea that some of the shortcomings that exist so far when it comes to the inventions and relationship of the employer and the inventor to be arranged to, let's say, stimulate all those who are working on finding out that they're doing it and that they're not worried that they can get less benefits from working relationships or that someone their right to them is being denied. You're talking about out-of-work finds. I guess, now I don't know if you have an answer to that question, but I'm sure at the time and who didn't work at Galenika had some agreement with Galenika about some bond that exists since they're working on something in common with Galenika. They arranged their relationship with some kind of contract. This contract either exists or is still valid today, regardless of who owns the Galenika. If the owner of the contract is changed, the same thing that "Gallenika" had committed at the time remains true today. So just to be clear about what it is, not to speak hypothetically, we're missing that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60685	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is now, long waits, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60686	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, since Mrs. Maja Gojkovic mentioned me, allow me to give two sentences alone. Full management is both she and Minister Djordjevic, if Nikola Tesla had stayed in his hometown, he would not have achieved what he had achieved. Someone mentioned him, let me say two sentences that he visited Belgrade on June 1st and 2nd in 1892, as you know. For those who say he is not a Serb, he told Belgrade students, I quote - as you see and hear I remain a Serb and across the sea where I do research, you should be, too, and by your knowledge and work, raise the glory of Serbia in the world. This is the answer to those who have been asking in the press these days and this morning on one television, what is Nikola Tesla? Of course the conditions are very important. Yes, they have the right to whose terms they are. It's not at all controversial, and it's precisely this law that goes in that sense, if the other laws were before, there's no way either in the conditions where I lived, and where Nikola Tesla lived, there's no way that they would have realized what Nikola Tesla had done or that I would have become a professor in my hometown or that I would have stayed a professor in my hometown and Nikola Tesla wouldn't have realized what he had done if he had stayed in Lica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60687	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break that will last until 13.00 hours. So, at 13.00 hours we continue to work, and I remembered, immediately after the sequel, I will give you a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60688	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60689	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Mr. Minister, I am pleased that you have returned to this debate because we should direct it in the right direction, as this law and this proposal requires, and this is the Law amending and supplementing the patent law, because before this break that followed, there have indeed been some concepts that, I say, are confused and incorrect information from an earlier period, as people have recognised patents in a working relationship. The member we submitted the amendment to refers to exactly that. Because of the public, and because of you who are a man, as well as Professor Obradovic, who was educated at the time, there are also some of your associates, I have the freedom to say as, in the end, the people of my generation, I must say that it is not true that both in the 1970s and 1990s, who have found and invented certain patents, which are applied in industrial and other production were only paid at their workplace in those factories, and they did not receive compensation for their patent. It was a different procedure, and it was legally regulated. I worked for a while as an associate at the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac and then we set up, in fact, the then academic professor Dusan Simic and a group of scientists from that university and the Zastava Institute, the platform for the new car "Yugoflorida". He did not go very well on the market, later the production of the entire flag crashed because of the sanctions and the war that followed. I remember that during that period when the first project began, the people of the flag institute were also rewarded by both the Faculty of Engineering and the flag group itself for each component they invented, and that it had not existed before on those earlier models that the flag produced on that model. It was not only that, but also in other major companies across Serbia, as well as in the Kragujeva Zast, the "Philip Kljajic" factory, as well as in "21". October. “ Simply, this law now and this time that has come, primarily because of technological development, and especially because of the development of this IT sector, leads people to find a way, if the employer of course recognizes it as something they have achieved to protect their patent, because in this way they can only exploit it in the market from working relationships. We have therefore reacted in this article, because we believe that it is not sufficiently defined and that they are not exactly protected in a precise way by the rights of those who need to protect their patent from working relationships, because the employer can give him that opportunity, that is, to give him an invitation to proceed. You know, it's not even simple. In order for you to invent something as new, as a product to be applied to the economy, to benefit from it, the path to it is neither simple nor easy, starting with the application, starting with the fact that the Institute of Intellectual Property and other competent authorities determine whether it's something really new, so that you place it on your market. That's why we reacted to be more specific about this member. We agree with that, Mr. Minister, that everyone should be aware at the time of the conclusion of the labor contract, that this is something that gives him the opportunity to work together. I repeat, it was in the former Yugoslavia before, but it was regulated in a different way. So it's not true that people only worked for wages. Now, we're getting to the point of whether the state gives enough incentive to those who get into it? It really is a serious and big job, to get the certification that what they invented is a patent, because every man who has invested certain intellectual work, if he thinks it's something new and if he's a scientist from that area and if he hasn't protected it, then he only has a certain copyright or intellectual property over it, and the patent is something else and we're discussing it. Many have dared in Serbia to do so, and no one has ever mentioned them from this assembly pay phone. Allow me because some people who have done this in the past 10, 20 and 30 years, we have been apostrophe here, who, most often from some of their own small workshops, have invented projects that are and how they are applied, not only in Serbia, but in the whole world. You are well aware of Mr Predrag Pesovic, who patented those famous nautilus batteries with organic rubbers that were protected in 30 other countries. Then you have Mrs. Mirjana and her husband, Stevan Oberknezhev, from Novi Sad. Maybe you didn't know, these are the people who invented the patent how to do it in the best possible way, and it's especially important when these floods and all hope to extract moisture from a wall that's up to one and more meters in diameter, so that it doesn't destroy it. Of course, I have to mention the Milinkovic family, because we consider ourselves Serbian radicals, we have said it several times, but with such a minister as Zorana, it is absolutely impossible for the builders to develop the domestic sector of construction, the Milinkovic family who invented and protected their patent, which, unfortunately, is not enough yet applied in Serbia. He mentioned himself here and the Serbian genius we're all proud of, Nikola Tesla. He did not try, which is why he was prevented from protecting his patents and therefore lost in court from working relations, but rather, he tried to protect what he did in other European countries and Germany. However, Germany was not then a signator of the Paris Convention and therefore did not give it the right of the championship to do so before those who plagiarized its scientific work, and they were some scientists from America. We feel that, indeed, the state needs more incentive to give these people. You know, Mr. Minister, he might tell you, if we take a brief look at this time of debate, how many patents are registered at the Serbian Institute. They didn't all find their proper application. You have people who are just people from science and come to this, to this painful path to protect their patent, but they may not be able, like Mr. Pesovic, as the Milinkovic family or others, to place it in other markets. We are boundless sanctions of the Western enemy Serbs and the country's wars have narrowed down our intention to further develop some of our technical and technological processes, and now we have to step forward with those who, while bombing us, have developed their economy and their economy. But remember, the knowledge economy, not foreign investment, is something that is Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60690	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a representative of promoter Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education, science and technological development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60691	Thank you very much. To apologize, I haven't been away by my own free will. UNESCO's general director is visiting Serbia. The topic is education and science, so it's really a rare opportunity and it's important for the country. What you said was right. However, there is another mechanism. This law regulates the rights of a man to a patent. His other management skills can be considered or not, but we have a very successful one fund that works well, up in the tech park. This is the Innovation Labour Fund and young director Ivan Rakonjac is great. There are grenades and connections between businessmen and researchers. We've been very successful lately, so many people with ideas have found their way to this production process. The principle of opening a start-up company, as you said, for example, in Machine, Kragujevac or anywhere it is, simply, normal. The next step is when this project is producing facts somewhere. So to speed up this accelerant process, as modernly called it around the world, is a further important step to find it in production through this technological development. That moment is very important. So, not only should we invest in innovations and technology parks, but we should give it that direction and acceleration that nature recognizes it, and then we're done with the whole story. So that last name in our ministry -- and technological development -- is starting to make sense for the first time in the way we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60692	Thank you, Minister. According to the amendment, the People's MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60693	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Sarcevic, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, paused after the presentation of Professor Atlagic, so I will take advantage of that, and by amendment of the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Yesterday, Professor Atlagic spoke of the character and the work, under the quote, Jova Bakic. I won't call him a gentleman, because that prefix doesn't deserve because of its primitive, dirty and aggressive speech, full of hate for President Alexander Vukic and for the SNS. He also said that SNS should be chasing us in the streets of poles. It's pure plagiarism, because it's the authorial work of another professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences of Radet Veljanovski, former member of the Free Citizens Movement, and now a member of the Self-Defence, a political preeminent. In the NIN on 11 January 2001, an article entitled ‘Linch on TV on 5 October’ was published. I quote - Rade Veljanovski was standing in the bottom of the stairs between the second and third floors. I add there were only two nails missing and it looks like a Serb cobra. You know, a flight of two nails associated with a snake. I continue – Milanović in blue shirt and gray-blue pants came down first. Lydia Radulovic was behind. That's what we do when the Democrats come in, she tells him. Veljanovski didn't say anything, but he ran after them with the fly. It's a finished quote. Rade Veljanovski is the mentor of a plagiarist of the doctoral dissertation of a certain Mrs. Radmila Chokorilo. This dissertation has passed the defense of prominent professors of political sciences. Mentor – Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanovski, Member – Prof. Dr. Neda Todorovic, President – Prof. Dr. Ratko Bozovic, longtime head of the Department of Reporting and Political Sociology. I can only say that the Faculty of Political Sciences has adopted a report on the plagiarism of the mentioned doctorate, whose mentor is professor. Veljansky. Look at the wonders, Professor President. Ratko Bozovic is another hater of President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. This can be concluded by his comments on N1 TV according to the hyper-kinetic body speech, according to a speech in Kreskend tonality, where Dusan Teodorovic, who says and offers a solution for Aleksandar Vucic and SNS to withdraw from the political scene and hand over power without election. Dusan Teodorovic downplayed Stojan Radenovic's work, one of the best mathematicians in the world and the most quoted mathematicians, which affected the positioning of Belgrade University on the Shanghai list. In the end, another professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences, Cedomir Cupic, who declares that MPs are not sitting in the Assembly, but untrained people, that every vulgar word should be banned and did not find it appropriate to condemn the vulgar speech of Sergei Trifunovic. Professor Cedomir Čupić goes on to say – if you want to listen to someone like Jova Bakic, then invite him to the Assembly to say what he has, as if the Assembly is waiting room at the train station, so he can enter and say who he wants and when he wants. In the end, I'd like to say that hate is naturally an unpleasant and destructive feeling, which most destroys the very person who hates it. In the end, a message for these haters. Hate never calms down with hate. When we hate, we take something away from ourselves, and when we love, we become richer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60694	Thank you, colleague Rancic. According to the amendment, there is a National MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60695	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, I have already discussed this bill in principle and I would like to commend the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. On the subject of this amendment tabled for Article 9, I would like to say that it is a very important member of the 9th, which also precisely regulates the incompleteness of Article 9 of the valid patent law. The relationship between the employer and the employee with the finding of the work relationship is precisely regulated. These amendments in Article 9 have not only regulated the relationship between them in terms of the need for mutual communication and communication of the employee on the new invention, but also the notification of the employer whether he has filed a patent application and whether he will submit, of course, with an explanation if it is not submitted, because in that case, the employee has the right to submit a patent application himself. Also, what matters is that the employee is obliged to provide technical assistance to obtain protection and apply the find created in a working relationship. It is also very important that this new solution accurately indicates that the way in which the employee's fee is determined is to be determined is to ensure that the work relationship is found and that the employee's finding must correspond to the subject of the patent the employer has to agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60696	Thank you, colleague Dinic. According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic's MP. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60697	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with ministry associates, a bill amending and supplementing the patent law is now protecting the inventor. Well, that should be emphasized. How? The employer shall make available to the employed material and technical means, means resources and information. This creates a creative and stimulating space for innovation, so that otherwise the inventor who works without these resources can advance? Then, when the employer receives a finder's report, he assesses whether the finding belongs to the category of finding from a working relationship. Employees and employers negotiate with regard to the height and manner of payment of the employee's fee. That's what young inventors need to know. So this is a better one. So let's just remember what it was like until 2012. Education according to the strategy was in the last place. The government of the Republic of Serbia is now pushing for education. Priority is education. That is Serbia's future. The educated people. So how are we gonna get a budget charge if they're not educated? We were just talking, not all the same intelligence. Someone needs to be in dual education, someone needs to study technical science, someone needs to be a genius, and we're talking patents today. All the better goes to the inventors. What else is very important? As the most important criterion, the degree of economic benefits that the exploitation of discovery brings is foreseen. The use of the invention is used with the consent of the employee because it is largely protecting his economic interests. And finally, work relations findings can be found in both national companies and large international companies. I mentioned yesterday our great minds. I would start again with Mr. Ostoj Rajic, who advocates the remaining young entrepreneurs and inventors in Serbia. It's all about that. Well done. Also Jova Nikolic, one of the wonderful finders, an engineer who spent almost a decade researching thermodynamics, energy saving, material resistance, the efficiency of the construction law. What's the point of his minding? The fact that he wants to create extremely favourable, financially accessible houses, where every inch is thermally isolated, practically everything is hermetically closed. Building these houses would five times reduce the payment of contributions, electricity and everything in these houses. And not just houses. He's still going on. He wants to build buildings like this in Serbia and he stays in Serbia. I will continue to talk about the geniuses living in Serbia, and there are enormously many of them according to the number of inhabitants. I am proud to live in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60698	Thank you, colleague Malusic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60699	Thank you, Chairman, Mr Milicevic. Here is the context of what my colleagues before me have talked about both the relationship between employees and employers and the fact that the laws are applied and the laws are respected and if they are not respected in any way, how N1 television applies the laws and whether it respects them. We still have a few amendments to this bill, and later we move on to the bill on copyright and related rights. I just wanted to make a parallel. So this bill regulates broadcasting and re-emissioning of copyright work. The question arises, does N1 television, registered abroad, have the right to produce content in Serbia, to broadcast in Serbia, or does it have the right to broadcast in Slovenia and re-emission in Serbia? The question arises whether certain obligations to the Republic of Serbia are avoided in this way and whether the law is passing in some way? On the other hand, are they doing exactly what they're accusing Alexander Vukic and the SNS? So, if you're from the opposition and you're visiting one of the N1 TV shows, I mean, of course, these various representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, "One of the five million" and similar to them, and if you're from any profession, and you're attached to the Alliance for Serbia and you want to spit on Alexander Vukic, by SNS, by even the MPs of the SNS, then you can. If you happen to be an SNS MP and you're visiting one of the N1 shows and you're still asking some awkward questions, then that part of the show is cut down is why would citizens know that they pay 140 salaries to employees, and in a minus 7.5m euros. Why would the citizens know if these loans they finance are in accordance with the law and are they not in accordance with the law? This is exactly the kind of daily praise of the Alliance for Serbia. So not only do they give them media space to spit on all of us, but they run politics with them. What is terrible, unfortunately, and thus they show that they are insecure because in Serbia today their policy is boycott policy. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, are serious politicians boycotting? Are serious politicians hiding behind the boycott, afraid to go to the polls? Alexander Vukic and the SNS are ready at any moment to check their support, to check how many people trust them, that is, how many people trust us, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is being done in the elections, and what opposition we have today one example and that example from the National Assembly. Our colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, signed in the lobby, or at the entrance to get travel expenses by the salary she doesn't earn here in the O.R. So that's their relationship to the Republic of Serbia's budget -- the way it was, that's what's left. Dear citizens, think about it in the future when the parliamentary elections are coming to us and you appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60700	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60701	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law on amendments to the patent law. I asked the amendment to change the position that applies to the way in which the employee is informed. I didn't think it was enough for an employee to be notified by written notice. Today, when digitisation has taken place in each sphere, it is necessary to inform the employee by electronic means. This is the fastest and most efficient and cheapest way to notify. Today everyone owns a cell phone that they can open and read the e-mail. On the other hand, the sender is in a position to check if anyone has opened the e-mail that was sent to him. This may not be relevant in the case of a possible judicial dispute, but it certainly speeds up and simplifys the way in which it is notified. That's why I think this amendment of mine should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60702	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60703	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article nine is important, and I don't think it should be changed. I will continue to insist on what I said and from the beginning of this session, which is that each individual can also contribute to some small innovation to a better working process and to himself to secure additional profits. This law regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee, and is applied in that case if there is no agreement between them, which, according to their own agreement, create terms of agreement. The way of communication between employees and employers is in any case determined by the employer, according to company rules and practices. Today, many foreign companies, brought by President Vukic, are operating in Serbia, and in these companies, employees have opportunities to show their creativity and their innovation. My generation, unfortunately, did not have such an opportunity, and believe me, many of us wanted it. Today, young and dedicated people, who are creative and capable, can come to terms and turn their talents into deeds. Serbia is far more developed today than before, has risen and is working intensively to make this improvement feel in every part and every area, and of course, this can only be achieved by work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60704	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a national message, Danica Bukvic, according to the amendment. Here you go, colleague Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60705	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am reporting for this amendment to Article 9. My previous speaker, a colleague of Ivana, explained the importance of this member, because he better regulates the relationship between an employee and an employer. I would take this opportunity to once again make some positive points about the laws in the field of intellectual property rights. As the authorised representative of the SPS, Professor Snezana Boskovic, has already pointed out in her presentation, these laws in the field of intellectual property rights are extremely important, especially proposals relating to changes and additions to applicable laws and related rights and topography of semi-conductive products. I would particularly highlight the importance of intellectual property, i.e. the fact that inventors, writers and composers, painters, designers, must have special rights to their original and creative works, the protection of the conditions of their use in broad practice, as well as an adequate reward for that. As it is said, in Serbia intellectual property protection has a second tradition and from registered first patent to today, the Institute of Intellectual Property has published and protected 56,000 patents, both in Serbia and in our former state communities. I would especially like to point out that this law prescribes a legal framework for strict respect for intellectual property rights, which also means a decisive and consistent fight against counterfeiting and piracy. Also, the paper in the law is that in the future, apart from the interpreters of music and actors whose interpretations are recorded on sound carriers or images, they will receive broadcasting and re-emission fees, creating conditions to improve their economic position. It also commends the extension of the property rights of interpreters and phonogram producers, CD, DVD, record and the like, from 50 to 70 years of age, which means practically extending the period during which they will exercise the right to profit and economic security in the elderly. Because of all the positive things this law has passed, as we have already said, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60706	Thank you, colleague Bukvic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60707	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleague Mircic said, patents are made in small workshops, garages, scientific institutes, higher education institutions and international, domestic, national and elsewhere. Our job here is to legally define certain guidelines to further develop this. Unfortunately, in our society, the commercial factor has surpassed humane for a long time. What problems exist when regulating this right is best known by Mrs Totic, who has been running the office for many years and knows what she has met. I have to mention that one of the people who has about 15 patents in his Saiji shop, in Bratunco, is very nice to mention. For us, this Drina is a beautiful river that makes bridges. So he made 15 patents. Personally, I think he's a man with a fourth degree, maybe even a third degree. Some colleagues here, even though there are probably people here who have found something, patented something, connected it to high scientific institutions, which doesn't have to be like that. We need to give guidance to people who want to deal with this, because serious commitment to inventions will speed up scientific development in Serbia, and we can all benefit from that. And patent is a set of exclusive rights guaranteed by an individual by a state or by some other authority. That's what the patent is and we need to encourage some competition to make people know what it's all about. Very often, since we have submitted several amendments to the SRS to Article 9, that is, Article 63. The patent law, and here's what I've filed on behalf of the SRS, is not about some change in this member and something that would make it impossible for the progress and development of patent law. On the contrary, this member regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee. If we don't work it out in a good way, and I think we're going to destimulate the employees, and if we just claim that he works there for a salary, then he won't even have that one, I'd say, competitive spirit and character to prove himself in that field. Science involves dedication, and sometimes fanaticism. There's no one who can do science and set his own hours and say, "I'll make it work." To do science means to work indefinitely. That's what Mr. Minister knows, and many know that's what it is. Now it's said here in this Article 9 in Section 6. – if the employer assesses that what his employee described as a find, and represents a secret for a particular firm, that he is obliged within the deadline provided for in Article 61 of the Law to inform him that it is a matter and to make it known in writing to him. And we suggested instead of writing, because in writing, you heard very often jargon, not writing or writing. But if you inform him in writing, then it means that he has made it clear that he can continue to use some of his other rights that this law that is on the agenda leaves him as a possibility. The lack of will to solve together and make good preconditions and encourage as many people as possible to deal with inventions, then we leave this opportunity or this field only to those who are interested in doing it for money. Once again, I say, to do science, and thus to find, it means a little bit of fanaticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60708	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am the one who dared to touch Mrs. Danica Popovic's patents from the Faculty of Economics. Today's list of "Today" favors me has dedicated almost the whole side. A built-up case of alleged plagiarization. I'm not constructing anything. That's what happened. Apparently, I was insulting. I'm not a professor at economic college, I don't teach students, I don't have to be some kind of example, a sacred example, I can be here, as a farmer, to express myself in a way that understands me as a wider layer of citizens and I don't have to perform all sorts of finesse and be incomprehensible. Mrs. Danica Popovic wrote in the NIN in time, the prominent newspaper, very bad about me. The dispute that we're having, she wrote in NIN, this Twitter warrant NIN, about my smallness - fuy. So, she's a professor of economics, she's an elite, I'm a farmer, and I guess the elite has the right to farmers, workers and ordinary people to say fuy. She may be disgusted by agriculture, perhaps disgusted by the MPs, our privileges. The lady who took advantage of the professor. Babića, who, along with her, translated a certain textbook from Italian, 11 chapters, she 10, so he more, by the end of 2018, was expelled in early 2019, since he was deceased and his work seemed to be dead and she threw it away, signed it over, Prof. Grandma also postponed herself and patented her assistant. It's strange that we MPs are so hated by privileges. My salary is 78,000, all my colleagues are here somewhere. The pause we receive for contacts and travel with voters is twenty-seven thousand. Less, we're all here. Do you know how much Danica Popovic receives? About 300 grand. We have privileges, gentlemen colleagues, she doesn't have them. She gets 300 grand from the budget, doesn't have to report it to the Agency, she receives from the budget like all of us. Our mandate is limited, hers isn't, not in office. It's a permanent job, 300,000, 290 and something, great. We have privileges, she doesn't. She takes three times as much from the budget and that's unlimited. You know what's interesting? This copyright translation is paid. It's an author's work, Mr. Minister, you'll explain it better, and you're here among the names. I guess the newspaper "Today" has more journalists than readers, so we're lucky. Here, I'm trying to lift their circulation. They probably expect these yellow unfortunates to make people read "Today, NIN, "Time", "The Weekly" to read "Blic" to watch N1 and "New S". He probably wants us to make people look at it and read it, and in the end, they seem to want us to make voters vote for them, because they're not convincing enough. So many media, so few voices. It's interesting that at a time when the dispute occurred and because of that translation, the students rebelled, not me, I'm just passing on what they say and I believe it's true, not even slow here, that the late colleague from the textbook threw himself out, but it's strange that just then, at the end of 2018, she was receiving, Minister, I don't know if you can check it out, somewhere around 12,000 euros, a million and 400 thousand, as an author's fee. I want to believe, but I doubt that this author's fee could belong precisely to the translation of that textbook, where the late Professor Babic was removed, that Her Majesty, the great moral gromada, Danica Popovic for the author's work, for that patent her famous, casts out a dead professor, took a million and 400,000 dinars on the salary, fellow MPs, out of nearly 300 thousand. One more thing, the Anti-Corruption Agency does not deal with professors, although I claim there are abuses far greater than possible among fellow MPs, because I know that you, like me, can steal paper, two files and three pens from the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60710	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the authorised representative of the SPS Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60711	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on the day we discussed in principle spoke a lot about this law, but today we are encouraged by stories on the subject of amendments or in particular I want to say a few things that I think are important and important, and they are not up until now highlighted. First of all, the observation that we are passing these laws because someone ordered us from the EU does not stand. We make these laws because we need them, our citizens, our industry and our better economic and economic results. Why? Because it is our goal of the EU, but before that, our aim is to make our citizens live better, to live as they live in the EU in terms of standards, in terms of living conditions, in terms of a regulated system. In fact, these laws relating to intellectual property laws are a real example. I'll tell you why. We have brought these laws into line with EU directives in this area, but why? Because we want big companies in our country that are already doing business here to invest in research and development, and we recognize that as one of our own, so to speak, the weak point. We have few patents from working relationships, or from business entities, and we have a lot of potential. We have very creative people. We have people trained and written who can meet the demands of new inventions, or patents. I would remind you that this is only an amendment to the current patent law, and that is exactly what I say to those patents that are the result of synergy, material and technical investment by the employer and intellectual work of the employee. Why? Because the law on the recognition of patents from the scientific and research sector, from colleges and institutes, is in some way resolved through the Law on Science and Research and the Law on Innovation Activities. So this segment, working relationship patents, wasn't well-organized enough and we're doing it now. We expect that, thanks to an orderly system, harmonised legal regulations with the highest international standards, this will also be an incentive for large industries, businesses from abroad to invest right here. That's one of the reasons we're passing these laws. The second reason, I said that the government itself came to the conclusion that we have plenty of room here for investment and for good results, so it has made some good and positive decisions in this direction, and in the sense that it has reduced the income tax on intellectual property created in Serbia, which is being registered here. It's an extremely good measure of government that's been applied since the new year. We can already say that it gives results, because I say we already have those who are interested in opening patent bureaus in Serbia and registering their copyrights and their intellectual property here. This positive trend in creating a positive atmosphere needs to continue. I therefore welcome the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which has prepared for us these laws. I think that in the next period along with these laws that will be passed, with government measures when it comes to reducing the rate of taxation, it would be good to do more work on education, on promoting these good measures, that our public and those citizens, but also those who could potentially be the bearers of investments to produce patents, be better informed. I think we've left the Institute of Intellectual Property without right, which here is an extremely important and important segment. Without that institution, there's nothing we can do about it. I really want to commend everything you've done so far and to say that it's up to us both at the Ministry and at the Government to help you both humane, and materially strengthen so that you can respond faster to the applications. I know it's been a while, about two years, and for those of you who have submitted the application and expect the result, or expect an answer either positive or negative, two years might be some period. You need more professional people, more staff, more material resources to answer faster. That'll be another extra incentive. We can then say everything we have done that Serbia is really making progress when it comes to strengthening the creative industry, and that we really need reinforcements, not to repeat what I have already said in the opening statement. Thank you again for your attention. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60712	I thank my colleague Bošković Bogosavljevic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60713	Thank you, Vice President. Given that the amendment was given to a member who I believe really has reason to be supportive, as well as a complete law, our authorised representative and distinguished Professor Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic has already pointed out this. I need to draw attention again to something I pointed out in the principle debate. Here we have patent rights and patent protection. Accordingly, there is also an automatic need to point out what happens very often in practice, which is judicial protection, because mainly because of the disputed circumstances, when it comes to infringements of patent rights, in the courts of afirmia, what is very important for prosecutors is that they seek judicial protection of patent law. That's why you need to start with that so-called. the protection functions of finding and that protection against the use, i.e. exploitation or sale of persons who do not have the right to do so, or are contrary to the interests of the person who owns the right in any case, or who is the holder of that right, and that is the one who invented the patent. I am pleased that Honorable colleague Peric here has pointed to a great effort by Mrs Totic to settle some of the issues that relate to the Office and registering everything that the Bureau normally deals with. However, no one has touched one question here, one of the institutes that is very important and which this ministry recognized recognized it in the end and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is certainly a good sign for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to recognise the quality of the work of the Government of Serbia and all its parts, starting from the ministries to your office, after all. What do I want to say a few words about? I want to tell you about the natural license. There's been a little talk here about it, and the forced license is one institute that's very important. Very significant in the event that the patent rights holder is denying others the opportunity to use their invention, especially where this use is necessary, in production processes, then in different technological processes, as well as everywhere in the interest of the state, the Republic of Serbia to use one finding in the best possible way on the one hand. On the other hand, that the bearer of that right should receive adequate compensation. Now, I think you have very well recognised this question and, very well, very well regulated, because the forced licence is essentially a kind of measure, but that measure is not assigned, or it does not define "exofio", therefore not under official duty, but at the request of an interested person. Who's the interested face? Mostly a company. Why the company? Because only the company can be credited with its production resources, potentials, capacities and thus prove that this find can be used in the best possible way in this regard and that for all this time of use it provides compensation, but when? Only when the right holder will not do so will he not conclude the contract on a voluntary basis, since the contract is otherwise a product of autonomy will, nothing else is necessary for the production process. Why did I point this out in particular? Because court proceedings often involve disputes about, precisely the right to patent and to deny the possibility of using this patent, then, to be completely honest and open, certain abuses occur. To these abuses, unfortunately the Institute cannot react, because it has no jurisdiction to apply the appropriate measures, but that is why these measures can be applied in a judicial procedure, and that protection can be achieved in the best possible way through judicial decisions. Why am I saying this? Without flattering you, you are doing your job in a quality way, you are doing your job responsibly and committed, but I am saying this for the citizens to know that a matter that is very important to the state of the Republic of Serbia, regulated here in a good way and that we should support it and that we should try to make our full contribution to the laws that we are discussing, which I am sure we will adopt, are practically the most applicable. That's why citizens through us will recognize someone who works in their interest, and we're giving you full support, both to the minister and to all of you together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60714	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law should regulate the area of protection and the use of finds created in working relationships, which is perfectly normal and fine and what I would welcome, and then not to follow that inevitable part, which is that the law is initiated by the need for harmonisation of national legislation with European legislation. This matter in Europe has been arranged while we have still had some of our specific problems of war and crisis, so we are quite late to edit this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, still Archibald Rice, a famous Swiss professor, a forensic scientist who pointed out and who dealt with the victims of Serbs in the First World War, said I was involved in the loss of a bright and very versatile people, but it must also be shown through inventions, through innovation, and especially through their industrial application. The Serbian Radical Party believes that it is not a good solution to these changes, or a six-month deadline for the employer to notify the employee whether the invention he created by fulfilling his work obligations belongs to the category of find from a working relationship. That deadline must be much shorter in our opinion. There is still no favourable climate in society to encourage innovation, it must be one much wider and more energetic policy and action. In other words, first of all, give us patents to have something to protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60716	Thank you, colleague Boyic. According to the amendment, the word has been sent by the People's Parliament of Olivera Ognjanovic. Here you go, colleague Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60717	Thank you. As far as I can tell, it says here that you have submitted an amendment saying that the text - that finding is not made available to the public, changes the text - that finding is not published. This refers to a regulation on the protection of business secrets governing the legal protection of business secrets from all acts of unfair competition. It is the obligation of the employer and the employee to protect the business secret when it comes to finding that was created in a working relationship. Since huge competitiveness is present on the market today, it is logical that there is an employer's interest to protect the finding from the public. The Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vucic have provided a large number of incentive measures and support for the development of scientific and technological projects for the sake of Serbia's faster economic and technological development, and this member provides security for employers who participate in these projects or have received a new invention with their resources. Therefore, this also explains Article 66 of the Bill of Law. The amendment proposed does not have any effect on the essence of the proposed member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60718	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. According to the amendment, the word has been sent by Stefan Miladinovic. Here you go, colleague Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60719	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. This is the last amendment to this bill. I would like to refer to my previous speakers from the SPS parliamentary group and support this bill and all other bill proposals that we will discuss in particular, as regards this second search. We all agree here that the inventions of the promoters of civilization's development and that the intellectual effort and creativity of the individual cannot only be commended and not only deserve congratulations, but also full legal protection, and that protection by patent or small patent, which protects the right of the one who made the find, in such a way that its commercial creation, use, sale cannot be done without the consent of the rightholder. Intellectual property, like any other property, must be non-injurious and require precise regulation of it. These amendments and additions to the law, my distinguished colleague Snezana Bogosavljević Boskovic also spoke of, in fact, the essence of these amendments and additions, have focused on one other area, which is the protection of patents produced or created in a working relationship, which has not been regulated in detail by the applicable law so far. The protection of patents is the result and should be the result and synergy, in fact the partnership of the investee, i.e. the employer and the intellectual work of the employees. It doesn't say that regulation adapts to investors, and we heard it during the discussion today. I think that this is how intellectual property, i.e. intellectual work of employees, is protected, but is also protected by capital, i.e. by investors. Finally, I would say that strengthening the creative industry is something that is the driver of the economy and I hope this will contribute to the development of the intellectual, creative industry in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60720	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic has a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60721	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, inventions should contribute to further development of some of the areas they refer to and that is very good. The aim of the proposed law is primarily to regulate the mutual relations between employers and employees. Why am I saying this? Because there are some misunderstandings, obviously, with certain MPs, so let's get one more thing straight. When an employee creates a finding in a working relationship, in the field of protection of inventions, the Institute of Intellectual Property monitors the number of patent applications submitted and small patents. In 2016 191 patent applications were submitted, of which 15 applications were submitted by companies and 55 small patent applications, four of which were submitted by companies. In 2018, 162 patent applications were submitted, of which 13 applications were submitted by companies and 68 small patent applications, of which three applications were submitted by companies. So we're doing good things. That's how it works. Amendments and additions to the patent law will have a direct impact on all economic operators that create innovation within working relationships. Employers will be encouraged to invest in research and development, and employees will be motivated in the process of work because they will receive fair compensation for it. Let me mention, among other things, another young scientist, innovator, genius, and that's Goran Sidle, we're going to our northern province. Goran Sidle, a young inventor from Novi Sad, has made a very useful patent that is quite practical today. Namely, Goran invented the Cycle Charge dinamo generator, which uses the kinetic energy of the bicycle and converts it into electricity, which allows you to charge your phone or anything else that uses a USB connection. There are many inventors in Serbia whose inventions have not seen the light of day, but they should certainly be supported in efforts to change both the country and the whole world for the better. That's why we're talking about this law today, that's why we have amendments today. As for Archibald Rice, who I've been reading and who I'm always happy to return to, I'd recommend that everyone read that wonderful book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60722	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda, the search in particular, the fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on copyright and related rights. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: the Belief of Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Dubravko Bojić, Ružica Nikolic, Nikola Savić, Petar Jojić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Despotović, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanović, Filip Stojanović, Marina Ristic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Vesna Nikolović, Bozidar Delić, Momo Čolaković, Marijan Risticevic and Dr Aleksandar Martinović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60723	We have submitted this amendment to draw attention to this bill which, according to the SRS MPs' position, is not good. First of all, this law is not adopted to make real and fundamental changes in copyright and related rights because this law is adopted under certain EU directives. Whenever we see something like that, we know it can't be good for Serbia and for our people, for our people. It should have been, Minister, that when you started this job, a new Law on Copyright and Related Rights should have been passed, because copyright in Serbia was not sufficiently protected. Intellectuals in Serbia are not protected enough. We are daily witnesses to various writings, stories, comments about which abuses, plagiarities, etc., but much is due to the very bad law and poor protection of authors whose works are plagiarized or whose parts are plagiarized. The problem is, of course, often when an author is plagiarized who is no longer alive, so it's a question of who's going to initiate a plagiarization procedure, who's going to be dealing with the team at all, whether, if there are family members, they're able to do it, if someone in the line of scientists, if that's what came to him, let me say, is in hand so that they can deal with it. But it must be pointed out strictly that plagiarism is all that is transmitted from the work of another author, even if it is just one simple extended sentence. So it's not just the plagiarism that's been prescribed from the beginning to the end. The plagiarism is also an act in which there is only one plain sentence, if the beginning and end of that sentence is not indicated, or is not indicated, and if the name and last name and work is not indicated from where that sentence is prescribed. That's very important. We often hear in public – part of a piece is plagiarized, this is plagiarized, that part. So it can't be plagiarism partial. If, I repeat, one simple word in someone's book is, say, in someone's textbook, prescribed by another author, and that's not precisely indicated, that whole book is plagiarized. First of all, I will remind Serbia's public about the 2000 case when Professor Seselj established the plagiar of the book of the textbook Stevan Lilić, then professor at the Faculty of Law, is about his textbook Administrative Law. Indisputedly, Vojislav Seselj found that in his book, Stevan Lilic, in his textbook, plagiarized the books of Dr. Laze M. Kostic "Administrative Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia" and Seselj, of course, informed the Faculty of Law then, the Management Board, the Educational Scientific Council, the Department of Public Law where this Lilic worked, the Dean, etc. He asked for procedures to be conducted, of course, and for Stevan Lilic to be removed as a plagiarizer from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. At the time, there was a lot of controversy about it and in the media and Seselj explained that the entire textbook Stevan Lilić was not plagiarized, but that there are parts of the part “Administrative Law of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia” by Laza M. Kostic and that they are not marked as parts of that work. Of course, it had to be declared plagiarized. What happened then? It happened that a court case was conducted in this case and that a judicial verdict found that indeed the professor of Law Faculty Stevan Liliæ plagiarist was then. Seselj then published the book "Dirty Slutty plagiar Stevan Lilić". What was interesting, after the lawfulness of that verdict at the Faculty of Law, was, indeed, that they had to do, on the ad board stood the verdict for a month and it was precisely written that the textbook Stevan Lilaja plagiat. But imagine, he was still a professor, he as a plagiarizer continued to teach, because neither then nor now, he does not take seriously enough intellectual property, which must be the most protected property that exists. You know, some physical property, some moving or immovable thing, each of you will defend it and try to defend it, and stealing intellectual property often the author doesn't know it's stolen. I said a moment ago, he may have died in the meantime, so the question is whether and when, how many years will it be determined that someone's intellectual property has been stolen in the first place. So we insist on the full law, and right in this part of it, you know, there's through this law, we're going to talk about, some other things that are questionable whether, I don't know, sound carriers, etc., how damaged some singer is, I guess it's in his interest to have his song sung, no one's plagiarized it, it's just that the state is damaged because someone in black there printed some sound carrier. So, this right, I say, in the right sense, intellectual property must be protected and must be protected in the law precisely, I repeat this, to know that a single sentence, a simple sentence quoted in a textbook, in a book, in a text, in a column, in whatever you want, must be precisely marked by the beginning and end of that sentence, to specify the name of the author and to specify the name of the work. Such things are not yet regulated in our legislation, and this is indeed a great shame, and that's why big thefts of intellectual property happen, so anyone can think of taking someone's textbook, some scientific work, to rewrite whatever they want, maybe change the order of words, etc. And now he's like some scientist, he's got some title based on it, etc. We must protect what is most valuable, yesterday we talked about studying, about education, about the need to raise education to the highest possible academic level, and today we confirm this through objections to this Law on Copyright and Related Rights, we recommend to the Government that the National Assembly propose a new law that will seriously protect the most serious property, which is intellectual property.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60724	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60725	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the legislator tried to regulate a very sensitive area legally. I say sensitive, because it concerns the rights of talented people, moral and property rights. It is a sensitive job, one work should be recognised by the professional public, but also by the state to provide and protect the author. Still, the hardest thing to do is to create something new, and everything else has to be easier than that, the procedure in front of the state and the verification of science, the profession, the esnaf, not the other way around. What is created must be kept and not destroyed and not lost. It doesn't lead society to improve just production, just economy, just economy. Many battles for the economy are first fought in science, in applied science, but also in applied art, in industrial design or so on. design. Society is not only institutions and norms, it also makes it so that freedom of creation and its fruits, in various forms, literary, scientific, artistic, cultural, in the broadest sense of words. Social values are a matter of individual and collective choice. There's a connection, interdependence. Advanced society does not choke, but rather encourages individuality, so that those who are gifted and creative creators feel more comfortable, even privileged, because society recognized their superaverage. In one more sentence, authorship and invention implies an independent choice, but also initiative and co-operation with both society and profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60726	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60727	Mr. Minister, it is necessary that this law be withdrawn from the procedure because it is inaccurate and unclear, because in Article 2 we have tried amendments to the SRS to indicate that you have left out some copyright. First of all, people know that anyone who writes something right now and the thing is that at the moment of writing and the creation of the author's work, he also gets copyright. It's an automatic right unlike the one we were just trying to determine how to protect the patent. This most intellectually and spiritually, however you like, must be protected in every way from the beginning and every sentence. Here you have left out and this is the amendment, to include manuals in the description of the author's work under books and other written creations. Why does it matter? A colleague spoke earlier, and I was in the principle debate about this plagiarist scandal, the dirty, plagiarist Stevan Lilić, but who knows how much more, there have even been various and newspaper inscriptions about that number being increased, also in the Faculty of Law both in Belgrade and in Kragujevac and in other cities where these manuals are created that are actually collected from various authors, who knows from when and from which side, and ultimately translated by a foreign author and are then used as such in the follow-up, and that they are not marked as copyright works and have no, therefore, automatic law. Of course, anyone who enters judicial protection, if that were to happen, would prove that it was his authorial work, because one single, as the colleague said, sentence that is placed in the context of something not written by that author, but taken over, one simple, expanded sentence is plagiarism, theft and the strictest must be sanctioned. Now you have that part in the law, where you say what a quote is, when possible, a reference from the beginning to the end and the name of the author? Anyone who resorts to it, because of the illustration of their work, there are people who are creators, who would use someone's quote, in a way that would hurt the author's reputation. You're boasting, aren't you, Mr. Atlagic yesterday, I don't argue with that. Now imagine someone taking your quote, Grandma and quoting you and he says – now I'm going to write something, I liked this from him, and I'm putting it in some context. It can be a distorted context that will offend both your intellect and your copyright. So you're not good at the law and you've defined the possibility of quoting properly. You know, these are very sensitive questions, and then we come into a situation where everyone who recognizes one of their only sentences has to go to court, who knows how much, I've talked about it both for individual books and photographers. These disputes take a long time, so that this would not happen, it is necessary that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure and we did not want to delete all of this one-by-one member, some of which we did indeed delete, which were directly taken over from one of the eight EU directives, but we were already going to give you further arguments through this story and this debate why this law is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60728	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60729	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, this bill regulates a very important area in national legislation, which is a system of intellectual property and its protection. In the country, where Tesla, Pupin, Milankovic and many other inventors, innovators and authors come from, this authority of our people must be particularly encouraged by the state, to protect, cherish and desecrate. We are proud to highlight the medals of our students and students in European and world competitions and knowledge Olympics, as we are proud of our inventors from the Brussels Research Fair, as well as a large number of inventors and innovators of Serbia. The state is struggling to improve and regulate the work of an intellectual property system, so this bill makes it a real shift and moves literally from a dead end. Of course, that's not far enough. Intellectual property is a matter of urgency because it's directly related to brain drains and we're witnessing that it's our daily life. If we create conditions and are favourable and acceptable to young people and those in the best creative years, then they will not go into the world. If we still protect their rights as the entire advanced world, then we kept their mind, imagination, or creative ability to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60730	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60731	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright Act, with this amendment, I asked that Article 3 of the existing law be amended. It's a dramatic choreographic pantomime as well as works that stem from folklore and folk creation. At first glance someone may be made that this is not some particular change but a deeper analysis concludes that the amendment solution is better. Since I belong to a kind of author whose works fall under copyright protection, that is why I think this amendment should be adopted. Copyright work is a specific and hard work where authors of certain works have worked for years and sometimes even decades on their works, so it is good that this law is passed that should provide protection and safety for all types of authors. What is not good in this law is the fact that the law certainly had to be more thorough and more precise, so it is not surprising that such a number of amendments have been submitted to this law. Every piece, even if it seemed insignificant to some, is of enormous importance to the author. I urge the present representatives of the government to reconsider the amendments submitted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60732	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and Mr. Minister, here are the respected citizens of Serbia, the minister has returned. For a time there we had a minister who was not resolute and who, as he said it himself, didn't understand too much, at one point even said that he didn't understand much. But, well, we hope that now that Mr. Sarcevic has taken his place, he will start looking at the phone a little bit, and more importantly, he will participate in the discussion and answer the questions of the MPs. You're saying that the Copyright Act, that is, about copyright and related rights, is extremely important to you, but your answers are missing in the discussion. This is what characterized the previous discussion, as well as the discussion of all previous laws. It may also be the best picture of Serbian society, because we are a country where there are always some kind of affairs opening up, but no affair ever closes, Mr. Sarcevic. You know how much plagiarism has been mentioned over the past few years. I think with that initiative among the first, even in that old Yugoslavia, Vojislav Seselj was on his way. In recent times, the most famous affair has certainly been, I believe, now with already former University of Belgrade Law Professor Stevan Liliæ, who was reliably found to have performed the plagiarism, but unfortunately, he never carried any criminal or academic sanctions, and everything else is on these moral criticisms that were primarily carried out by Serbian radicals. My question is -- what are you going to do as a man in charge of education, education, higher education in Serbia, to finally break off with such a practice? Let us once see the end of any affair, but to make that end clear, precise, clean, and then no more doubt about all those who are said to be plagiarists, whether or not they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60734	Thank you, colleague Sarevic. The word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60735	As long as it doesn't stay unspeakable. I certainly belong to ministers who communicate with MPs when there is a sense and need. But the courts are mostly in charge, so you know. When it is higher education, Professor Atlagic also knows, autonomy, higher education has its own procedures. If the executive government interfered with them, then it would be an accusation of violating autonomy, higher education. I've just been investigating with the entire cabinet and the legal team, as many times as in recent times, for at least the last 20 years, it's been broken and where the executive government has entered into the glass shop and given decrees. Just because of the current regime's critics. I'm really trying to act in accordance with my legal powers. I don't have the authority to handle this. I'm going to remind this big house when we passed the laws on education, we managed to get the minister to be visible, so it was a whole hallbukka. After that, two and a half years, no one said – yes, the minister violated what was written in the law. It's not, not once, not even in education. When we talk about higher education autonomy, wherever there's been a drastic violation of the law, where I could react with a high education inspection, which is the only alt we have, we've reacted. In the case of two rectors, out of six state-runs, we replaced the great directors and the dissidents who did it in higher education, where we had legal grounds. So, the Ministry never kept quiet, not a single case, but what autonomy is at the university, and what Mr. Marian was saying just now. So people tend to go out in the media before they sit down and say, "Why are we blaming a student when I'm plagiarizing the same thing?" Why don't they let an independent commission be formed ethically, some colleges don't have one, but that's why they have rectors. The rectors are the dean's chiefs. It's really time for us to reconsider that hierarchy, because many countries have arranged higher education differently. With us, too much autonomy has gone to many other extremes. And if I tell you that we've been here for a year and a half, respecting autonomy right now, we're working on a high funding law, because there's the biggest problem right through the regulations that have been up until now, and then you're running into whole blockades, co-operation all of that. That's where the story must be driven out to the end. I say again for earlier periods, just because of these doctorates, works and diplomas, they were competent universities. The universities had jurisdiction until the introduction of Bologna. Whoever wasn't satisfied with the university's decision went to court directly, so the ministry wasn't even there then, we're still talking about 20 years ago. After Bologna, we were somewhat competent through the recognition of diplomas acquired at foreign universities through the ENIK-NARIK centre. The adoption of a qualification law is an independent qualification agency, which has been a complete body that has to do so since 1 April. That's why I'm saying, the executive office of the ministry, within the government, doesn't have all that intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60736	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, on what grounds? Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60737	So, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, these concepts and autonomy of the University and independence in performing certain functions are constantly misunderstood in our society. Some in the 1990s and early 2000s thought that the autonomy of the university meant that the police should not enter there, as if it were a state in the state, as if it were a Vatican, so they have their own military and police, and they do not realize that it is autonomy, primarily intellectual, therefore, related to their scientific work and other things. You recognize, Mr. Minister, certain problems in the system and I would understand that you're the minister of yesterday, but you're not. You've been a minister for many years, I can say freely for many years, three years, and you've had more than enough time, especially given that when we got your biography, you were praised as a man with a great life experience in that area and you didn't, unlike some ministers who had, you know very much, in your government who were poor only when they became ministers in a particular portfolio trying to get acquainted with the matter to be dealt with. I guess we're the only country in the world where there are ministers of general practice, so in one term of power minister, in the second term you're the minister of traffic, and a little bit of tourism, so the Deputy Prime Minister, so the people of geniuses in the serious countries, it's hard to find enough professional face for one minister, and you have people with us who are God-given to do, I guess, the job of a minister in every vault. So, Minister, when are you going to start with the system changes? The system is wrong, there are problems, your hands are tied, you can't influence, okay, you provide legal conditions so you don't wash your hands by saying -- I can't, the other is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60738	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60739	Thank you. Mr. Minister, several of my colleagues from the SRS have told you that you should have passed a new copyright law. Here, I'll say why, extra arguments. So you've proposed that 72 members change. It's one-third of the number of total members, it's time to approach the new law. And, now, if you're talking about the Higher Education Act, it's very clear what key subjects are. When the law is passed, then it should be taken into account those entities to which it applies and to which it applies. The Act on the Protection of Copyright or its Abuse is more difficult for us than the criminal act of abuse of position, trade in influence and so on, than stealing intellectual property. These laws should also be very practical for those whom they do not apply, i.e., they apply, because they create, but they don't have enough time to deal with procedures and some other things that the employees here just before we said about the good qualities of the employees of the Institute for the Protection of Patents, they don't have enough time and they need to make effective laws that they can manage, so they want to have copyright, to realize and then to do so. Article 2 of this Bill has defined what the author's work is and the two components that characterise it as such. I think there's this definition that our law has quite well compared to some other laws. In some other laws goes the quality of the author's work, it's something that's subjective. We don't accept that component, of course, and that's good. Then, if it had been published under special conditions, many countries had left such a way of qualified the authorial work. The amendment the Government has rejected, we have proposed to be in the position of Article 1(2). Proposal for a Law point 7.) works of architecture, so as to complement works of architecture, sketches, plans, built objects from the area of architecture of urban planning and landscape architecture and the like. Since the previous areas of copyright have been clearly defined, we also wanted to say here what architecture is, because it is safe and abuse and theft, if it is not defined this way, it will happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60740	Thank you, colleague Perich. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60741	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was proposed to amend Article 1. Article 1 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 2(2) of the existing law, and the SRS proposes to amend point 8 with this attitude: "cartographic works (geographical, topographic, tourist, car and thematic maps etc.)". The Serbian Radical Party believes the amendment is more precise, as in the existing law, some types of cards have been unwarrantedly left out. We believe that every authorial act must enjoy legal protection and that is why our parliamentary group has submitted amendments with concrete proposals that, if adopted, and how to improve the text of this law. What the SRS resents for the representatives of the authorities when adopting this bill is that they state that they are amending and supplementing the law because of the need for our law to be brought into line with European legislation. These Directives, which bring into line - No 2011/77 of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of 27 September 2011, amending and supplementing Directive 2006/ 116 of the European Union on the duration of the protection of copyright and certain related rights. Then, the number 2004/48 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the implementation of intellectual property rights and others. We of the SRS parliamentary group have so far advised representatives of the government in the Republic of Serbia that the laws adopted by the National Assembly must be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the interests of Serbian citizens must be protected through respect for the laws adopted in the National Assembly, not because there is a need to comply with other people's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60742	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights that we are considering is compatible with the patent law that we have just completed. I have to admit, it's a good thing the government took this kind of problem into consideration, because intellectual property is a serious thing and there can be no playing with it. However, what is not good is the fact that many things are prescribed from European legislation that are not applicable in our circumstances. On the other hand, we have things that don't apply enough. With these things in the EU, as much as we criticise her, there is no playing, but we have a very different situation. We have a lot of authors, a lot of authors, a lot of copyright works, but there were cases that a vast majority of authors didn't get any satisfaction for what they were doing, not money, not moral, not any other. Even more so, we have situations that individuals have had problems at jobs where they are employed precisely because they have worked hard, what they have done with the works of the authors, so they have been intertwined by colleagues, employees, most often managers and so on. We have cases where people have lost their jobs because of their copyright work and lost their jobs, lost jobs in those jobs where they were employed, or were demoted, and were returned to lower and less paid jobs. These are the things that this law was supposed to take into account, but I didn't notice that the law was thinking about it, because how do you stimulate people to do copyright work, to do innovations and things like that unless they're guaranteed any security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60744	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60745	What is most controversial to us Serbian radicals not only when it comes to the adoption of the bill's proposal, but also most of the proposal, is that it is in line with European laws and European standards. When it comes to copyright, intellectual property, generally looking, if we can say that something is bad, negative, then it is European laws and European practice. Why? Because apart from that danger that threatens to endanger copyright and abuse of copyright by individuals, there is one major general danger, and that is globalism. Globalism is this system that simply doesn't know that right of property, intellectual property. It doesn't recognise copyright because globalists care about having it all as one gray that everyone can steal their intellectuals, abuse, use other people's patents, learnt about it, and that's the goal of globalism. Globalism is based on the fact that in every country, so also in Serbia, it simply sets such standards that it doesn't matter whether it's doctoral work, whether it's diplomatic, whether it's prom, whether these works are based on plagiarism. It's important to create a hyperproduction of high-intellectuals, whose ultimate result will be zero, because when you come to that effect, then you can manipulate not only the state, but the entire nation. Europe is based precisely on the principles of globalism. You have in European practice that it doesn't matter whether the one working in the Netherlands prescribed the one from England or the one... It's not a good example of England, though, because it's leaving, but Germany and so on. Serbia is going that way and now the opportunity has been, according to us, for Serbian radicals, that as rigorously sanctioned all thefts, especially intellectual ones. Copyright to protect itself. If anyone has a tradition in this battle to protect intellectual property, then we, the Serbian radicals, can say that we have this long-standing tradition. Our party's president for assaulting a plagiarist in the 1980s has been sentenced to prison, because the first one in the former Yugoslav system, as the country then called itself, attacked a man named Brano Miljus, who reached out to the plagiarism, for the interest of someone who was then top-notch, political peak, and here as if we were going back to that period, as if time had stopped or time machine to turn around, so again, by the reputation of Europe, what do we care, can prescribe whoever he wants. You have, Minister, you know it well, all the universities, though private, where it's complete teaching where people who have plagiarized stole intellectual property and no one pays attention to it. Well, what's the final score? Well, they'll produce such students. They'll be all the same. How can, for moral reasons, you say, an ethical court, how can they challenge someone for ethical reasons when they've acquired such a degree? That's what you know, you're fighting that fight. A moment ago, you told colleagues Sarovic that the court was in charge, but this is an opportunity, an amendment and an addition to the law, even more rigorous. Europe will not resent the question of whether Serbia will ever enter Europe. He won't mind, but we'll protect ourselves. We will protect the interests of this country and this nation. That's the point, that hyper production... (President: Thank you. It's according to the amendment. (President: I know, but the time has passed for your parliamentary group.) I'm grateful, Mr. Marinkovic, and what you've allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60746	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60747	I'll agree with you. Indeed, many things have accumulated in many decades. And you'll agree with me that it can't be cleaned by some broom at once. We didn't properly introduce Bologna at all, but we realized that this is a way to achieve rapid hyperproduction, not only of higher education, but of doctorate and mastery and all. Serious countries do it slowly, fine, studioically, there are some standards in quotas as much as anything. The establishment of various private institutions should improve quality, but if you want to be even richer, make more programs, more colleges, study groups, then you produce yourself professors. You don't have a process to spend five years calling, so five years, but in four, five years you're already a regular professor. You know, it's probably just us doing it so creatively. You can't put that back by banning inspection now. It's now something that was born. But we work on quality indicators. We're working on a unique information system in education. We are working on that employers will be asked about the work and expertise of these people, those who are representative. That was also important in the Double Studies Act. So I just think that we need to have this indirect way, and we're going to have it very soon, in less than a year, to get to know the public what's good and what's not good, and then I'm that economic principle, and I'm going to go there when it's not good and where I can't get a job, and I can pay for it. And we've been missing a lot of time here, believe me, to talk about both bone and desire that really young people are even better and more studied and cheaper, is not just about the state. So, it has to be done synchronised with our universities and trust me, there's a lot of work to do. I don't know if you can go any faster. We'd have to get into major conflicts then, but I think we're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60748	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60749	It's kind of weird when you kind of mention speed as a difficult circumstance, so the slogan of a political party that you belong to is faster, stronger, better. Aren't you in line with that slogan for these three years, if you're a minister, you could be a little bit more rigorous about those laws when it comes to intellectual property? You weren't there, too bad you weren't there. We led the controversy with colleagues from your political party, where we insisted on not protecting the rights of individuals. The intellectual rights of individuals, rights, though, were about patents, is the essence. When you protect someone's right, copyright, then it's a question of whether someone's copyright, whether they'll gain courage or courage to reach for someone's knowledge or intellectual property, or whether they're creative in order to achieve themselves, in the end, some benefit, whether it's material, whether it's intellectual or any other benefit. But when it's a rigorous punishment, when the law provides for how and how it's determined to be something plagiarized, then it's a little quiet that they're just going to dare to do it, no matter how much they think they're protected by the status of professors at the university, because they do their age. Sometimes, Stevan Liliæ, mentioned here, thought he was incomparable, untouchable, but time does its part. There's work left behind. So that's the point, to be used. You're absolutely right about Bologna. The bologna was a general flood. Bologna was something that was interpreted then, as it is now in certain parts, that it is the EU's fluid and that we cannot enter the EU unless we are across Bologna.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60750	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60751	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with associates, I would just draw attention to the creation of copyright and its movements to this day. Copyright is called a set of legal norms that regulate social relations regarding intellectual products in the fields of literature, science and art, i.e. in the area of so-called spiritual culture. Objective copyright, copyright is also referred to as the right belonging to the author or other person, physically or legally, for copyright purposes, on the basis of the standards of objective copyright (entity copyright). Copyright only appears at the end of the 18th century. Before that, neither did intellectual products enjoy legal protection. The preceding copyright is considered privileges, giving rights to individuals, usually publishers and bookstores, to carry out intellectual works for a certain period of time. The first legal text on copyright was adopted in 1709 in England and is considered to be the beginning of copyright. Since the French Revolution, however, copyright has continued and improved in France as well. In international terms, copyright has mostly appeared in the form of two multilateral conventions in Bernska since 1886 and Pan-American since 1902. Both have been changed more than once. The Bernish Convention was last amended in Brussels in 1913, a Pan-American in Washington in 1946. In recent years, it has been seeking to unify international copyright.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60752	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60753	This article we are talking about now should protect works of art that include collections of folk, literary and artistic works. This solution isn't good, it's better what's in the law. I'll explain why. I have to go back to that period when the first systematiced collections of folk poetry and art have been systematized by Vuk Stefanović Karadzic and we all have these, I suppose, collections in our houses and if you look closely, as well as the other collections of songs and folk creation that you have in your home library, more lecturers from primary schools, you will see that all these collections and all those books have their parts, so it was more acceptable that what existed in the law, that this collection has its parts and as a whole such a systematized part per piece represents one book with protected copyright. What you wrote, I suppose, is really translated from English, because they say it, its contents, is first unacceptable and grammatical, and secondly, it's not meaningful. You know, Mr. Minister, in all these folk song textbooks, you have a collection that contains a precosion cycle with songs, a Kosovo cycle, a post-cosion cycle, hiduke songs, etc. You are now putting something that exists in the EU and in their legislation in the context of our creation, which has its stages and its parts. We've asked for the removal of this entire member because we believe the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. But believe me, it's been like this for years, that this solution that was in the existing law is better than what you predicted to wipe out the pieces and put this expression in its contents.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60754	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60755	When we listen to Minister Sarcevic, and not only him, often ministers when they talk to the MPs in good faith agree with what the MPs are talking about, they say, but there is always an explanation why it cannot be accepted. This amendment has not been accepted specifically because, by accepting this amendment, God forbid, it would have touched Directive 96/9 of the European Commission. So this is for God's sake. Something else here would be good to say. He mentioned the minister and the bologna and he said, "We have to keep doing this." He was born and we have to rock. It's just not like that. You rock the bologna, rock the perpetrators, rock the notaries, and then you come to power, when you rock everything you find. The point is, some things have to change, they have to change from the ground up. In particular, when it comes to copyright and related rights, there is no author, scientist, above all, and only a scientist, who writes his work that he does not want this work to be read as much as possible, quoted, studied, etc., but must be protected that no one can steal a sentence from him, but to say, that one simply extended sentence begins with quotes, ends with quotes, and says this is a quote from the book and so on, the author of that and that. Of course, why does someone do this work if they do not want it to be as much public as possible and now and when that work has arisen and is counting on the fact that it will be quoted after his death, etc. (President: Thank you. Just to finish one request by the Minister, to really listen once, he's obviously quite agreeable with us, to withdraw this law and to sit here once and discuss a law that really makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60756	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60757	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights should strengthen creativity, through the development and research of gifted minds to realize their visions, either independently or in a working relationship. We need to make such a craft to recognize our knowledge first, to confirm it through international recognition and to become the property of the world and that the authors have both professional and material certification and satisfaction. This bill in a few comes out to meet, not only to sharpen, but to simplify and specify the conditions for certificates. For licenses, in other words, it goes to the creators, i.e. All those for whom the creative act has a championship over everything else. Creation, in the end, promotes both the individual and the state. Copyright works i.e. The inventions should not wait in line for recognition, execution, licensing. I mean, certain procedures must be followed. The state should be a service, as well as a natural ally, as well as an assistant in the pursuit of authorial missions. For most authors, their work is not only their own purpose, which, in my opinion, is not taken seriously in the state. This work has some human teaching, has a message, benefits, need, spiritual satisfaction, both for professions and for users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60758	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60759	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Sarcevic, first of all, let me tell you that I fully agree with you on all your criticisms that you have made regarding the Bologna and what they have done with the study system in Serbia. There is, you know, a huge amount of damage and damage that is irreparable to these generations that have passed and the impact of a large number of private colleges has been a reason and that in state colleges there is a significant reduction in the way the grades are assigned, to say that this tolerance is increased and that the permeability is incomparably higher. At a time when I studied at the University of Belgrade Law School, you know, some students dropped out at the age of three and four, because certain cases couldn't pass. It seems that now there is much more perseverance and that whoever spends enough time and reports enough exams that they will eventually pass it, no matter what the exam is about. Another question I wanted to ask you. You here state in the light of the law that, of course, the aim is to comply with European directives. What, Mr. Minister, is your position on the announcement of the Visegrad Group countries, which I recall are friendly countries, is about Hungary, with which we have an exceptional relationship, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, which said in the ideal situation Serbia will not enter the EU before 2027? To date, this date, which the ideal scenario predicted, was in 2025. So, it is quite clear, and you and we know that there is no ideal scenario for Serbia, although it is an ideal scenario, and to say, for the SRS never to enter the EU, but to define the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible to co-operate with friendly countries, I end up, in the first row, the Russian Federation, China and all other countries of the world that do not ask us to recognise independent Kosovo and who want to co-operate on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60760	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60761	Thank you. Mr. Minister with his associates, Serbia needs a serious legal system. Permanent amendments to the law or the adoption of new laws characterise Serbian legislation. The decline in the reputation of law in the Republic of Serbia has been seen and visible in recent years. The communists told the famous codifier Professor Michael Konstantinovic – you do whatever you want, except property, it's not your topic. This was also the subject of today’s session. Copyright could not even be applied at that time, since the government then felt that it did not have to deal with these issues and not with its property. So Mihajlo Konstantinovic, a professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, developed a Law on Liabilities that was the only survivor of the collapse and is being applied in all countries of the former Yugoslavia. I believe that in the field of education, which includes this law on the agenda, special attention should be paid to the authors of textbooks in secondary, higher and higher education. Some professors and authors are competing on what they will write and how many pages to write, and there are meaningless contents that should not burden students and students. (President: Thank you, Mr. Jojic. One sentence. (President: Of course, go ahead. ) It is known at the Belgrade University of Law University that a professor, otherwise at the age of four, lays down his subject, that he shot down students five times, and he had secondary legislation, a secondary textbook, a secondary branch of law, that students at the clinic ended because he lived on these students and raised his class above all professors and above all other textbooks and branches of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60762	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60763	Well, as in all these amendments, we insist on certain precision. In fact, when it comes to broadcasting and the right to issue copyright here, the bill says it can't do it without the author's permission. And then it's said which kind and how copyright can be broadcast, or author's work, and we say that satellite broadcasting comes into the category because it's a liquid of modern technology and modern society to be absolutely accurate when it comes to copyright protection. There's something we haven't touched the Ministers, and it's about copyright protection. We have in creation, especially in music something that shouldn't be a great expert or an expert and can be immediately determined that on the music scene music creation is precisely the principles that are desirable by us, as the globalist said. We in all the glue or in the mile in which the so-called creation is made. People's music has Oriental music. It's a completely demented culture. We no longer have this original folk Serbian creation, but we already have the Oriental, which is pure plagiarism. It's stealing copyright. It doesn't take a man much to be professional in that area, it's enough just to release certain matrixes and you'll see that copyright has been stolen, imported copyright without any compensation. We had this attempt by DOS to sort of regulate it through some organization called, as I recall, Sokol, where he was president, imagine that organisation, was former Serbian Prime Minister. It was immediately suspicious of what was going on. It didn't occur to them to protect copyright. It did not occur to them that through broadcasting they would compensate for copyright or to pay for who the creator was, but was intended for them to be the ones who would literally flood Serbia with a new creation, which in time essentially changes the cultural basis or the cultural queen of this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60764	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60765	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Before I speak specifically of this amendment, I have a question for you, Mr. Minister. Which ministry is tasked with taking care of the protection of the cultural heritage of Serbs in KIM? It is known that there is a large number of Serbian folk songs, Serbian folk cars and folklore, other things that make the identity of the Serb people to KIM. I'm not asking this by accident, but because our scepters have stolen many of our Serbian songs, Serbian cars and Serb eagles. Ethnomuscologists collected this and recorded it for more than 200 to 300 years. They're elements of statehood, and that's why we have to take care of these things. The Serbian cultural treasure is becoming more and more Albanian, which is unacceptable. Since the state's doing nothing, we've self-organized and formed Gjilane's Advocacy Club, which makes 15 enthusiasts. The beginner's club protected about 300 original songs and cars at Sokoya here in Belgrade. We did the same with the folk costume of the Upper and Lower Binak Morava and Novobrdska Krina River at the Ethnographic Museum for KIM here in Belgrade. We have protected a total of around 380 parts of various types of Serbian folk costumes and various materials. We included everything in books and catalogues that are available to everyone. Personally, many folk songs from these parts have been torn apart from oblivion, broken into sound carriers, and are now fully available. And not just that. Under my authority, there have been many new songs from that region, which my countrymen today listen to with great pleasure. I'm extremely proud of this fact. I personally don't have the copyrights and benefits they bring. The most important thing for me is that I did something for my country, and especially for my homeland, which is how all my Gjilans will remember me. Time works for us. I hope we won't wait long to play Serbian cars, Serbian songs and our famous "Gnjilanka" again on KIM. Mr. Minister, I'd like to present you with a book from the Gjilan Club. I hope that this book will eventually represent the significant cultural heritage of Serbs from Kosovo's Pomorie and the whole of Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60766	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60767	First of all, let me thank you very much, because I'm a book lover, and I have my own big and beautiful library that I've been collecting my whole life. What's important is that you know it's certainly the Ministry of Culture. What we're doing together, here's today was yesterday's chance that Mrs. Audrey, who is Morocco, was voted by our will to be director of the Union. It was in that first fight when it was tried with Kosovo and Metohija to enter UNESCO through culture, to show our cultural goods as their own. Few people know that UNESCO is even somewhere maybe 60% turned to education and science and that culture is somewhere maybe 20, 30% and information and the media is still so much. So I represented the whole story yesterday and today about culture and about education and science, but what is very important, we are present under Resolution 1244. If anything belongs to Kosovo and Metohija, then it's an education. According to our programs, our salaries, our employees, our digitization, our training, everything that's going on since preschool, with the university and the institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60768	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60769	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have repeatedly been able to hear through the debate that we demand that this bill be withdrawn from the procedure. In the principle debate, we pointed out that we were even thinking about erasing all the members, because the amendments are impossible to fix this law, because more than 30% of the changes are being made. Amendment to Article 8. The bill intervenes on Article 29 of the basic law, and we have requested that this article be deleted. The provisions of this article fully meet the criteria set by the EU directive, and it is obvious, and when it comes to this bill, it is an obvious example that absolutely everything the EU requires of us, that we accept unconditionally. Certain legal norms either begin or cease to apply with Serbia's entry into the EU. I don't know what else it takes to reconcile with the fact that we will never enter the European Union, which is what we from the Serbian Radical Party want and what we have been up against for years and stop harmonising our legislation with the European one? Laws must be applicable, and that is not often the case. It is precisely because of this consensus that you should propose a new law that will be fully in the interest of Serbian citizens and that will immediately be able to apply, rather than - this member is valid until, or - this member is in effect, is beginning to cease to apply with Serbia's accession to the European Union. It's something that's not good. (President: Bringing the end. ) In the explanation that you have stated why you do not accept this amendment, what you say is that it is not accepted because eradicating this article would make it impossible to fully comply with national rules with the provisions of the satellite broadcasting and cable re-emission directive and that is exactly what we have been telling you all along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60770	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Boytich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60771	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will proceed through this story to my previous on this bill. In Serbia today, there are six organisations that have permission to collectively exercise copyright and related rights and not to list them, about 12 and a half thousand people. However, the basis of the development of society is an individual, single or on a team, which relies on the power of its own understanding and creative imagination. It is preceded by high demands, and its response in the form of authorial work or invention. For now, there is not yet one such favourable social climate that would bring out or produce a larger number of creators. The real importance and position of authors in society must be much greater than so far, and their real social impact as well. It doesn't matter if it's humanistic or technical intelligence, artists or other authors. I have no impression that the acceleration of innovation, discovery and creation of any kind in us is being done systematically, planically, organised, deep and broadly, in the name of the future. It's still a matter of individual contusion. There aren't enough people in public who are famous in the country. Only if someone rewards the world, then they talk about him with all their mouths. Our television is doing something about scientific rejuvenation. In this context, I would like to give a positive example of the Russian Federation, which particularly cultivates talent in all forms and regularly reports to both the public about new inventions and their authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60772	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60773	Amendment to Article 9 refers to Article 30. The Copyright and Related Rights Act and Article 30 reads: "The author has the exclusive right to prohibit or allow another public statement of the act, including the ways in which it can be broadcast". That was attitude one. That Article 30 had only attitude 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights now adds Article 2, which reads as follows: "Right from Article 1, this article is not exhausted by any action, public statements", etc. So, the author still retains those rights, and I kind of took it too far. When I tried to see what the reasons for not accepting this amendment were, then I read the government's argument that Directive 29 of 2001 provides for the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and that that is why this amendment is not accepted. Mr. Minister, you keep sending hot and cold. You said that serious countries work gradually, slowly, and I thought that you now want certain reforms in the area of copyright to work. With Mr Filip Stojanovic's book, you also showed it, and I personally think that you tend to solve the problem more, but the reason why the amendment is not accepted, calling on the EU directive, is not clear to me, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60774	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60775	Mr. Minister, there's been a major failure in this article and some works of art in the art and art list have been left out. We've tried an amendment to react. And indeed, there would be a huge gap if you didn't put this in the number of works of art, which are mosaics and all the works that were made on stone and in potterium. Here's why. Imagine now that, it is one of the intensities primarily of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and, ultimately, the Ministry of Culture, that the church dedicated to St. George on Oplenco is placed on the UNESCO list. It's the greatest mosaic, one of the world's greatest. Not only is it the largest, but it is specific because it was made not in stone, but in mural glass, 3,750 squares, the masterpiece of our celebrated artist, one of Serbia's greatest painters, Paja Jovanovic, with 15,000 shades of paint. Isn't that a work of art for you? And all others who continue on the path of Paja Jovanovic and all those who are the creators of mosaics, in your opinion, are not those who should be recognized? It's the same with pottery, both pyrotic and jacuzzi. As far as I'm aware, they're protected as the people's creation from that region that's existed for centuries, and then it's really unexpected that you don't put it into this article of the law. Not to mention the stone you left out, too. Because it's not enough to rewrite everything that's in the EU directive. Well, they don't have it. Neither do they have the "Beloved Rose" next to Kruševec, nor do they have such traditional pottery as Serbia, which is a people's, centuries-old creation, and that is why it was really necessary for someone in the ministry to commit themselves to this and in a careful way to look at it. We're getting to this more modern part. Although photography as an artistic expression has been recognized more than a century and a half ago, but, in today's day, something that all these special schools will tell you is learning about, in colleges, and directions, in photography is not the same now and a hundred years ago. What you might not call a photograph, which is a variety of photographic directions or someone to get to judicial protection, says - yeah, the judge comes in and says, "This isn't a photo to me, this is something that looks like it, but it's not." And that's the artistic expression of someone who went to school for it. After all, he does not have to be educated, but he has God’s gift for such a thing, and it is his authorial work that is considered a truly recognized art. Therefore, you also needed to include these listed acts and to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60776	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the 10th member on which I submitted the amendment speaks of a copy or reproduction of a work of art. That's why this member of the law is so important, because clearly and precisely, in the clearest possible way, he needs to know what a copy is and what the original is. I, with my amendment, taxed what should be considered a copy, or original. For example, I asked that copies be considered works of the original artist that were done in relation to the work that was done, in a number of copies, with these works being numbered and that the author, or artist who was working the work in question, put his signature on. Also, I think that a copy should be considered an original piece done by another artist, under the authority of the original author, by also having to be signed and numbered. I don't think there's any need to explain yet why this is important, if we know and have in mind the fact that, let's say, today, the works of some famous authors who are no longer alive are reaching a very high price on auctions, and that's why we have a phenomenon that copies appear somewhere, or reproductions, and that would differ from each other and not come into legal situations to interpret what is original, what is a copy, or reproduction, so it has to be taxed here what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60778	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60779	Thank you, Chairman. Article 10 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 35 in accordance with the second basic law, otherwise, Article 35 of the applicable law regulates the right to follow. The Serbian Radical Party suggests that Article 35 amend item 6, which says, "The fee based on the right to follow is paid by the percentage of the sale price of the original without tax". We have proposed an amendment to this attitude, so it reads: “If the original works of art are resold, the author has the right to an appropriate part of the sale price achieved by any reselling of that original that follows after his first alienation by the author. The fee on the basis of the right to follow shall be paid as a percentage of the sale price of the original without tax’. We believe that this precise wording with the amendment is not too large and too small, on the contrary, it is clearly defined and possible doubt would be removed in advance, because the law will make the authors of the original art work more protected during the resale. The reasons for the amendment of this Article of the basic law states that the amendment shall specify what is considered to be the original part of the fine art, in order to comply with Article 2 of the first Directive on the right to resell. It is further stated, and concerns changes to the law in general, that, following an analysis of the comments made by the European Commission in relation to the tables submitted on compliance, it is found that certain provisions of the applicable law need to be amended or amended, in order to bring the applicable law in line with European legislation. The amendments and additions include all suggestions received from the European Integration Office, including opinions received during bilateral screenings for Chapter 7 – intellectual property rights, which took place on 12 and 13 November 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60780	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that you have a little bit of an interest in going into the debate with the MPs, and certainly the MPs have fallen interest, especially with the ruling coalition's MPs. There are currently 10 SRS deputies and nine SNS deputies in the room. I don't know why it came down that they're not answering for a word anymore, they were very active this morning, and I wouldn't want anyone to think of the citizens of Serbia watching today's session that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60782	By amendment, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60783	Be patient, Mr. Arsic, you're always so impatient when I speak, I'll just think it's because of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60784	I'm trying to teach you the work of a MP, but so far it's not working.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60785	You teach someone else, Mr. Arsic, and while I'm talking, you stick to the Rules of Procedure and don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60786	So do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60787	And warn these people that I woke them now that I said there were only nine of them, so they began to earn. I think that would be much better on your side. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 14. The draft law amending and supplementing this law refers to the original Article 47, and I asked my amendment to delete this full member, because we in the SRS think it is not good that the law is changed in this way, that a new complete law should be passed and that it should not, as with you, unfortunately, not the only reason, but the basic reason for the adoption of this law is that you want to obey the EU directives as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for only interrupting me twice, you're usually much worse on that matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60788	I just respect the Rules of Procedure, colleague Sarovic. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, proposed after article 16a, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60789	Thank you. The amendment of the SRS refers to Article 19 of the existing Article 116 paragraph 1 point 4) is amended and reads as follows: ‘emissioning live of its interpretation’, which explains that this law must accurately define the rights of interpreters. The draft copyright law, which is quite extensive, regulates and regulates the legal protection of the economic interests of the authors, interpreters, phonogram producers, means CDs, collectively achieving copyright and related rights. I said that the law is quite extensive, more or more accurate, 226 members who treat four areas – literary, scientific, professional and artistic. The bill imposes the need for both content and methodology to be searched and arranged in this area, and it is very diverse because it covers written, voice, drama, film, music works, as well as architecture, theatre, cartography and photography. The promoter estimated that copyrights are better regulated than related rights, so the proposal highlighted this by improving the legal position of the holders of related rights, especially property rights. It is about interpreters, phonogram manufacturers, database manufacturers and computer programs, as well as collectively achieving copyright and related rights organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60790	Thank you. The 19th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this bill, the right of the database author, the database producer, as well as the author of computer programs is particularly potent. The issue remains, however, an open question of what effects will be given by practice, i.e. The application of this law. The most sensitive are collective rights organisations, their tariffs and compensation arrangements, because when everyone feels great in their esnaf, it is difficult to reach an agreement. The state has loaded itself with another mandatory control and it will be less or more satisfied than how it will be carried out by members of the Esnaf Association. In the current law, in the section on related rights, the rights of the database manufacturer are given in only five members, not quite enough. Now this proposal corrects it. In the light of this proposal, the law also mentions 2013 and 2014, as if the law had been in a bunker somewhere, but as my discussion of all these legal proposals ends, I am free to offer an unsettled alternative to the Proposer and Resoring Minister. Take a look at the possibility that parts of the rights of database authors, database manufacturers, as well as authors of computer programs and dwarve law on topography protection, semi-conductive products, which I will later say, make up an integral text, national law regulations, which would cover the area of protection of information technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60792	Thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60793	We asked for the erasure of this member, Mr. Minister, because he is completely pointless, here will be agreed by counterpart Risticevic, until the business of RTS and their robbery of Serbian citizens, and therefore all copyright holders, above all, are interpreted. A number of affairs, millions of abuses and robberies, as prescribed by Dragan Gilas, who was executed by the board of directors and director of RTS, will likely have an epilogue in some court dispute. But until that happens, it is our obligation, as a representative of the people, to remind us of some of these affairs and not to pay copyright to the interpreters, by RTS at millions. Of course, since the organisation that needs to protect the rights of interpreters in Serbia, in one complete mess and instead of dealing with it, they are dealing with some other issues, and later we have tried to mark it to you, as a problem and about the distribution of income, the submission of reports, the prevention of malversions, then it is pointless that there is only one such member on paper, because, above all, they must be enlightened by all of you and by the citizens of Serbia, unfavorable contracts. If, therefore, the citizens of Serbia, out of the budget, who are full of the budget, and we pay from the budget RTS, and then by the subscription that has been set for each electricity number, then let them, above all, be absolutely enlightened by all these abuses, distribution of income and not paid copyright. Which, then, is hypocrisy, Mr. Minister, that we pass the copyright and related rights law, and the public service of RTS was the first to violate those rights. Do I need to remind you of that famous contract with some Bulgarian provider from a few years ago? Is that how Mr. Risticevic and those video clips were installed on their YouTube channel, completely unauthorized? Then, they, imagine they say, no, that contract didn't have to be shown to the public, because it's simply something that doesn't belong, or the Public Procurement Act, gave that company 20%, and then 30% for those services. Well, of course one of those took a percentage. Everything exactly according to Gilas' scheme and school, robbery and Serbian citizens and copyright holders. That's why we asked to amend this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60794	Thank you. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this member of the 24th Law speaks of how the video program should be put into public view. In my amendment, I felt that the way the program is going to look at the public should be the sole subject of the author. We all know, and I guess it makes sense that every author is most important that his production, so his work, his creation, sees the light of day. How it's going to happen and how it's going to happen, not to go into technique now, technical details, but these things should be left to the author himself. The authors of the video program are the ones who are most interested in their actions and they certainly know or assume, perhaps sometimes wrong, but they assume given what they were creating that this would most effectively come to the ears, that is, the eyes of these viewers and the wider audiences. We know that advertising, the advertising of the authorial works of video programs today is the strongest and biggest financial expenditure in these creations themselves, we don't go into those, let's say, spiritual elements where people gave themselves a lot, spent themselves to create some work, and that's why the law doesn't need to be mixed up, or the legislator doesn't have to interfere with how the works are going to be put into public opinion, but it should be the sole thing of the author, because it's the thing that matters most to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60796	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60797	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law has been amended as well as when it comes to provisions governing collective exercise of copyright or related rights and provides for the obligation of the applicant to issue a licence for collective exercise of copyright or related rights. In addition to the list of members of the organisation which is established to deliver and prove that it is indeed the authors or holders of related rights. Article 32, which amends Article 157 of the applicable law, is intended to improve and prevent abuses in the work of bodies granting authorisations to organisations for the exercise of copyright or related rights. We have, in the current law, amended Section 1 and we are asking by amendment that it states that the founders of the organisation are obliged to obtain from the competent authority an authorisation to carry out the activities of the organisation in accordance with this law and to permit the exercise of activity to be issued by a solution for a period of five years. Such a formulation, except as specified by this Member of the Law, prevents possible abuses, and if all the conditions for carrying out this action are met, should be determined by a solution and thus can prevent any possible abuses in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60798	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60799	By submitting amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, SRS MPs have shown one consistency when it comes to the protection of copyright holders and those who have inventions, meaning they deal with these activities. Article 37 is complemented by one view that the provisions of the distribution plan will have to be clear, unequivocal, applicable and thus formalised to exclude any arbitration in the distribution of copyright. He means their associations, those who represent them. We proposed that the annual allocation plan be made for each year and adopted by 31 December of the current year, and the allocation applies for the following year. This is the best way to look at the situation, of course, sometimes payments on the basis of copyright and related rights do not arrive on time, some do not meet their obligations and then it can happen that the account of the copyright user has more or less opportunity for that realization and therefore the best insight is made if it waits for the same year, or before the end of the year itself, to see exactly how much funds there are and to implement the schedule of those funds based on clear criteria. In an explanation for not accepting the amendment, you said you shouldn't go with such firm rules and that it's not allowed, and it's supposed to be clear, unequivocal. That's what it actually means. The way to determine the distribution of these copyrights should be objective, professional and unequivocal. It's the only way we'll fully protect the holders of copyright and related rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60800	Thank you. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momo Colakovic. Comrade Colakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60801	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I would first of all like to thank Minister Sarčević for the response I received in relation to the amendment that I submitted very effectively and quickly, and I have notified the initiative's drivers for changing this member of the law. On the subject of the amendment, I just want to point out that this was planned to try to help citizens' associations, especially pensioners' associations with regard to the use of space, not to pay taxes. In this regard, I accept the argument given, and in this respect, our parliamentary group will support this law and other laws that are on the agenda of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60802	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 46 by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 48 by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I can see, the last amendment I submitted to this article, and it is also an opportunity to draw a small conclusion about this law. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this law, Mr. Sarcevic. I hear about some, it's not a surprise. Of course not. We won't vote for many reasons. We also cited them during the debate. And for me, I think, the one that remains most important is that it remains the basic reason for the law to be passed like this and we see it from law to law. That was the case for previous laws in this united debate, the government's desire to get close to the EU as soon as possible and to bring Serbia's legislation into line with European regulations and their directives. The sooner the Serbian people and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are freed, I say, those delusions called the EU, and the sooner you stop fooling Serbian citizens into living better once we are members of the EU, the better for both of us and for you. It is quite clear that Serbia will not, at least for the next 10 years, enter the EU, and it seems to me that, as the year goes by, it will move so. You, Mr. Sarcevic, as well as the rest of your colleagues in the government, are obliged, above all, to take care of the interests of Serbian citizens, and you know very well that the EU's interests oppose it. In Serbia, they see the market for their products and see a source of cheap and highly qualified labour, whose education and training have not invested anything at all. That's why I'm not looking forward to your approach, I'm not looking forward to your alleged successes, because the more they pat you on the shoulder, the more successful they are, by their criteria, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the less experts in Serbia, and the harder it is to live here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60804	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60805	When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, then we should say that we are not, at all, heirs to Tesla, Pupina, Milankovic and many others who are known in the world frameworks. Some scientific journals and, of course, serious world institutions say that when it comes to invention and what one man could do for the world order, that our Nikola Tesla is right behind the Archimedes. But, looking at these laws today, we have to look at things integrally, observe. This is now as if it was done for some nation that still needs to be formed. It's not so possible in human history, but it's like it's supposed to be formed, so then, we promise that something will be done for them, and it doesn't really matter. This amendment that we have submitted to Article 55. The proposal for this law concerns mainly copyright abuse. And then some fees are provided and it's simply explained how judges should act in judgment, compensation for compensation, and it's been elaborated in some small detail, as if a court case, when it comes to the protection of copyright and related rights, doesn't exist from before, as if we haven't developed that court procedure. In this position, you said that the court should assess the loss of the owner of copyright, and then in such a way that it can compensate him, that it should be in that amount that he would have achieved if it had not been for this abuse. We repeat, for the SRS, stealing copyright, related and intellectual rights is almost the most difficult crime. And, if that's what we're talking about, it shouldn't just be an SRS position, it should be a general rule. If that's what we're talking about, then the distribution of copyright owners and the fees when they abuse their copyrights isn't well regulated, and I think this job is done quite wrong, you've had a bad approach to this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60806	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60807	Here, we came to the end of the discussion of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Mr. Minister, we felt that certain provisions, too, are not the place in this law, and it is the proceedings of the courts, because we have other laws that are in force in Serbia, which treat civil litigation and administrative disputes, and here is my colleague, Sreto Peric, who has also been well reminded of the Criminal Code, which also treats the area of copyright with certain threatened prison sentences. Therefore, it has been seen from all of our arguments that we very seriously wanted to show you with these illustrations and these examples that copyright as a special branch of rights that is strictly to be treated and governed only by national legislation, rather than by the EU model, which Serbia will never enter. It should be how it would apply to all those who want to protect their authorial work. The author's work, therefore, and one single sentence that would be plagiarized and abused must be protected in the best possible way. We believe that through the proposal, such amendments and additions to the law, which has been made by eight of the ten EU directives, copyright and related rights will not be properly protected. Believe that if not by the end of this year, then perhaps at the beginning of the next or the next assembly meeting, at the EU's order, you will again come to the National Assembly with amendments and additions to the laws, as they tell you. You have proposed this law, it entered the assembly procedure, here, we are now discussing it, so a few months ago, and afterwards, it seems to me in April, the European Parliament passed a new copyright law that should protect the rights, above all, the original photographs and the dispute that is being conducted around that member, and it is with a close majority voted in the European Parliament. We don't need to be interested in that at all. I repeat, copyright should be the sole law governing the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60808	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? ( No. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60809	Thank you. About the importance and role of copyright protection, I would just like to point out historically how it came about. I would have continued what I was talking about earlier. So, under the auspices of the UN, there was a convention made in 1952, which Yugoslavia ratified in 1966, and by the Peace Treaty, after World War I, Yugoslavia was obliged to adopt copyright rules and it did so by the Copyright Act in 1929. The law was considered to be one of the best at the time, and that is why it has been applied for a certain period of time. The Law on Copyright Yugoslavia passed in 1946, and later the Law on Copyright from 1957 was also regulated that, according to this law, copyright lasted for 50 years and after 50 years of death. The moral rights of the author lasts for over 50 years. I just wanted to point out that the old Yugoslavia has also taken account of and adapted these regulations as national regulations and passed laws in the interest of copyright protection. The SRS MP, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, reminded earlier that the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia regulated this area and punishable any abuse of rights in matters of copyright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60810	Thank you. The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 70th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 70a, with correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60811	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 71. The draft law refers to Article 71 of the applicable Law and provides for a provision which exempts trade actions from public disclosure fees for music works, interpretations and phonograms. The right of authors, interpreters and phonogram producers to this fee is recognised by different international contracts, including the WTO Agreement and certain EU directives. In your explanation, amending Article 171a of the Law, you state that the change is in order to support the craft sector and that, among other things, the craftsmen will be exempt from paying this fee. Given that Article 171a is contrary to the provisions of the above-mentioned international agreements and that their abolition is one of the conditions of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, transitional provisions of the concessions for crafts operations cease to apply on the accession date. We have proposed eradicating this article 71, because we believe that the existing solution is better and that because of the different EU directives and the devastating European pathway, Serbian citizens should not suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60812	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60813	Here, we have come up with this key issue, in addition to your desire to join the EU that is decomposing and conditions us. First, most EU member states have recognised Kosovo's false Cypriot state. The resolutions adopted in the European Parliament are aimed at constantly tightening the silk gittan around Serbia's neck, and we simply cannot understand such a policy, and we believe that Serbian citizens cannot accept it in the most possible way. Promises, promises, and now for the squabbling and conditions of Serbia related to the WTO, and this member is conditioned by Serbia's accession to the organisation is also something that needs to have a broader discussion, and it concerns primarily the protection of our agricultural production. We can't be an experiment of large EU corporations for GMOs. You remember the affair, and you, too, colleague Arsic, were one of the critics of such a policy of the unfortunate Ivana Dulic and her legal projects that were about to introduce Serbia into that circuit and to protect future generations from it, we must reject all these kinds of pressures and blackmails, because what our country is, which is our production and what is ultimately, and the potential of the entire economy of Serbia, is this processing and processing industry, the processing of our raw materials so that we can exploit the potential that you do not use, which is that all that we produce in Serbia, we take out to the big Russian market, because with the Russian Federation we have a free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60814	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 72nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Protection of Topography of Half-Manufacturer Products You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60815	And here we have come to something that is some new kind of legal protection in Serbia, and, of course, everything again according to the EU directive. To make Serbian citizens know what it is, because the law is about protecting topography of semi-conductive products. These are products that, first of all, protect themselves from possible abuse as a new invention and something produced in the computer industry. Now, by accepting from the Dossmanian government something that has been ripped from intellectual property, you have entered this system of evaluation, as the EU requires, and you are specially regulating this, because it was a broad debate and when this first thing came to the National Assembly, could this be done under copyright or patent. But we have the Law on the Protection of Industrial and Intellectual Property, and that is why you should have put it within the framework of that law, not as a specific area, as required by Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60816	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a member of the 6th Act on Topography of Semiconductive Products speaks of possible disputes that may arise in the use of these topography. It says here, say, in this article that the application for this abuse cannot be submitted after 15 years of topography. So the application is meant to be made to the competent authority. Now, there's a problem. This is where this time period, 15 years old, is mentioned, but the law cannot clearly determine the exact date of creation of the mentioned topography. So it can create great confusion in possible disputes, because it is a process-law matter where these time limits must be precisely defined. That's why I asked my amendment to establish precisely, taxively, the date of origin of the mentioned topography, so that we wouldn't have problems with any disputes. This team, before it comes to one matter, about topography, because we know that the technique is rapidly developing and some 15-year-old period, usually these topographys get old, but not to get into a situation where we're having a dispute about something that's already out of date and whose commercial use is no longer worthwhile and something that's almost not being used. So that's what this amendment is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60818	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60819	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products of the SRS has been amended and amended: "In the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products " Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 55/13, Article 21 paragraph 1 point 7) is amended and reads - a valid and documented statement where and when topography was first commercially used, if the date of first commercial use is earlier than the date of submission of the application. “ The topography of semi-conductive products was protected on July 25, 2013. This proposal amends and complements further harmonisation with the Council Directive, which regulates free access to information of public importance and the law governing the protection of personal data. Topography of semi-conductive products is most applied in the fields of information technologies, which are recognised by the state as a strategic segment for the development of society and economy, so that the proposed legislative solution will affect economic operators dealing with the production of semi-conductive products, modelling of electric cars, design and production of finished printed plates and the like, as well as all natural and legal persons who protect this type of industrial property. And in this bill, we have a situation similar to that of previous laws in this area, that Europe, which is very demanding and constantly imposes something on us, with the promise that this fulfillment requires we cut the road to the EU. It is reasonable to accept something that is not ours, but it is not reasonable to accept something that is worse, which is not in the spirit of our Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60820	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60821	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what do you say after reading this miniature legislative proposal? A small law, and a dilemma more. However, they do not only refer to today's text proposal, but to the whole of matter at all. The current text of the law was not adopted by this assembly meeting, but by the one from 2013. The law replaced something called the Law on the Protection of Integrated Cars, a name generally recognized and known. Now we're protecting the same thing, except by the directive it's called topography protection. This time-old lady named Europe is very demanding, she wants to alienate us, to take away our language, to impose her meaningful and pointless standards on us, as light on the car in broad daylight. It may be in northern Europe, but not in the south or southeast. Then, European counting of time, parade, quotes, pride, NGOs and such nonsense. The insight into large dictionaries, wikipedias, as well as other language aids to explain the interpretation of this word can only confuse. As a geoscience, topography is beneficial to geodesy, spatial order, architecture, hydrology, archaeology, agroculture, traffic, and most of all to the military. Now someone in Europe has come to realize that this term is related to modern information technologies. Something that's a matter of modeling electronic cars, designing and making ready-made printed plates has been influenced by the production and protection of semi-conductive products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60822	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60823	Three key problems occupying both the activities and thinking of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state and each citizen in Serbia are certainly an attempt to solve the KIM problem, correct living standards, hence developing economic relations in Serbia and joining the EU. When I say three key problems, of course, this third one for members of the SRS, and certainly for a number of citizens there is no problem. These two are essential problems, and they need very serious attention to be resolved or solved. The question of our country's accession to the EU is, I must tell you, pointless. Countless times, except you won't admit it, and you, Mr. Minister, have convinced yourself that it is so and now we're not naive that we don't know that science, technology, copyright, topography isn't something that can be shut down within the borders of a country. It is wider, it exceeds the borders of a country, and we certainly are for it to be resolved in the way that Serbian citizens will benefit most from. You didn't define yourself for it, but you're trying to play a double game, and you know, if a man doesn't focus on just one problem, then they can get past it, that he could solve it, but there was no concentration or no desire to do it and solve it. In this Article, you said when certain provisions of this law would apply, or you said it would be when Serbia became an EU member. Why do you allow, why did you accept one destructive policy that the regime before you, since 2000, has led? You saw that didn't give you any results. You saw that they deceived that regime. I think he's doing it now. Some of the funds obtained from IPA funds or otherwise, supported by European organisations, I'm almost certain it will cost us dearly. It will cost us dearly, because we know that the late colleague Zoran Krasic spoke – it is only free of charge on mouse cheese, everything else has a price. Serbian citizens are not ready to pay the price you started, which is the way to the EU, not because it does not love it, but because we have made sure so many times that we do not have any good, nor can we expect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-13-0.u60824	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which determines Tuesday, September 17th, 2019, starting at 09.45pm, as the day for voting on agenda points of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
