ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continued work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Why does the Government, ministers and other state officials not answer any parliamentary questions at all, or do they do so very rarely and selectively? For the almost four years of the current assembly's term, we Serbian radicals each Tuesday and Thursday asked a question very seriously, very important, and only three or four times we received a reply from the minister in charge. I also insisted that my question be answered - why does Prime Minister Ana Brnabic not approach the government's reconstruction? So many affairs have accumulated around certain ministers... (Vladimir Orlic: False affairs.) What's the matter? (Vladimir Orlic: False affairs.) ) How come fake affairs when Nebojsa Stefanovic doesn't have a college? (Vladimir Orlic: Who says? I say no. (Vladimir Orlic: That's different. That's different. What's important is that you confirmed it to me, I'm not quite competent to do this, but college isn't finished, because college doesn't end up in Hyde Park or in the parking lot of Sava Center. So the government's reconstruction would have to be done before the election. I hear you're in some big business of pre-election program. Do you think we'll discuss your program with you while these ministers are still in office? No, we will only attack ministers for criminal and corruption affairs, those for which we have arguments, not all ministers, those for which we have arguments including the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganko Tabakovic, who has also been discovered as a plagiarizer of doctoral dissertation. (Vladimir Orlic: Is she also in Hyde Park? What? No, she paid for someone to write it to her, and he got tired of writing because she wasn't incapable of writing, she was a leper and she paid someone to do it to her, and he got tired of writing, and then he kept cheating. (Vladimir Orlic: Is he in the park? No, she did other things in the park, and that's what you ask me after the session. It's not exactly a session right now, let me tell you about it. Keep asking, they're very inspiring. They're very inspiring to you. (Alexander Martinovic: How much did she pay? Well, she paid for something in cash, something in nature. You want me to tell you the name of the man who wrote to her? Will you? Publicly? Let me publicly tell you the name of the man who wrote to her. (Alexander Martinovic: How? Say it. Will you? Okay. Soon. Furthermore, you're on your way, I'm talking to Ana Brnabic again as prime minister, and you keep asking questions, and something else will come to me, you've come to me with a discount, you've been giving in before, but since the IPAP agreement you've failed, but now that you've accepted REM to be a representative of the Liberal Democratic Party of Serbia, LSV and this party Rasim Ugljanin, Sulje Ugljanin, yes, and Rasim supports it, is the name of Judita Popovic, who even signed a petition that was a genocide in Srebrenica. Otherwise, these are party traitors among traitors, the paper supports all actions against the Serb people, and now they are with you in a coalition force of opportunity. I expect you're starting to give in, that soon you'll give in, so we won't have the elections in April either, but somewhere in October, November, or December of next year, because that's how your discount continues, and that's not good for Serbia, because I care that you as a party will fail as soon as possible. To experience your doom, so whoever I say, here I am, and I've lived. (President: Bringing the end. ) But it's not good for Serbia, because if you fail this way, foreign interventionists will jump in and form a government for us. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68215	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Am I finished? Thank you. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68216	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today I have prepared two questions just raised by yesterday's session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, which discussed a report on the state of the environment for 2018. First question I want to ask the minister of traffic. According to the report, air pollution is one of the major or better key problems affecting the health of the population in Serbia, and the causes are those identified, that is traffic, the state of traffic in Serbia and energy facilities. As far as traffic is concerned, that's why I'd like to ask the Minister of Transport, the Regulation on the division of motor vehicles and their technical correctness provides for stricter control of the emissions of harmful gases as of July 1st 2021. Namely, every fourth used user imported into Serbia has a Euro 3 engine and we have other than that vehicles that are even older than those already registered and for which everyone will be in trouble when the exhaust criteria are tightened. The average age of passenger cars according to some data in Serbia is over 18 years, and older freighters and buses are also a problem. In particular, the problem of a vehicle in public transport, i.e. in urban traffic, is the problem. Let's just look at the city of Belgrade, how many bad buses and other air-polluting vehicles, and the tractor average is about 30 years old, which will especially hit poor farmers who are unable to buy newer tractors. So my question to the minister is - how many vehicles with Euro 3 engines have been imported? Do we have that kind of information? Then, are there quotas or are they planning on importing used goods because it threatens to turn into a used car dump? Just for this year, we heard on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment data yesterday, that close to 150,000 used vehicles were imported and of course a question particularly interested in farmers – what will happen to tractors that are over 30 years old and where the exhaust gas will certainly show a bad state? It's a traffic minister's question. The second question I would like to ask the Minister of Energy, because the waste chapter in this report said that out of the total amount of waste produced in Serbia, 80% of the ash from the thermal power plants. Everything else is municipal waste and other kinds of waste. Over six million tonnes of ash are produced annually in the Republic of Serbia, a very small amount is used in construction, more specifically in the cement industry. Today, ash is used in cement production, construction and infrastructure. The use of ash from thermoenergy facilities is very widespread in the production of different kinds of cements, and that is of great importance, especially in the preservation of construction facilities from erotic pollution, i.e. from acid rains, because they have an extended duration. If the ash is of good quality, it is used in the production of concrete, this is especially true for the use of ash in the construction of roads. This is simple information for those who know little about this. In the world, unlike our country, good quality ash with high organic matter content is very widespread trade for them, there is a developed market in the Middle and Far East that lacks about 300,000 tonnes of ash per month, and its average price is $20 per tonne. In Serbia, infrastructure works, i.e. The construction of roads, parking and so on uses only 2% of the ash, and in the ashes of the thermo-electric EPS, 200 million tonnes of ash are currently loaded, estimated values of about a billion euros, and daily production is 10 to 12 000 tonnes, which could be used to build about 2,000km of roads. Unfortunately, we don't use it for these purposes, and as I've already said, out of the total amount of waste, 80% is ash. Therefore, the question for the Minister of Energy – when and whether the ash from the electricity industry in the construction and construction of roads will be used, and in accordance with the norms of the circulatory economy, which says that waste can be used as new raw materials for new production. Unfortunately, we don't use such things at all and the use of ash shows it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68217	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68218	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I have repeatedly asked questions concerning all of us living in the territory of southeastern Serbia and the whole of Serbia. Now I'm going to ask a question from the VSS. We are witnessing that a few days ago, more precisely from December 20th to this day, a missing girl who disappeared on December 20th when she went to school and from that day on, is to this day required to be found. We see from the knowledge of the police and everyone who is doing this investigation and it has been determined that she has been kidnapped by a sex maniac, pedophile, Ninoslav Jovanovic. It's a man who's been sick, who's been in prison multiple times, a man who, when he was released in 2018, after the prison sentence he served, was having trouble again. He sent e-mails, sent different messages to some kids. He's as recognizable as a tiny barber. He raped several times, assaulted underage children. There has now been an impetuous case where more than 300 police officers, people from around Nis, have come from all over Serbia to look for a missing girl, who is an excellent student. This maniac, the lunatic who took that girl, is moving from the village of Malche, where somewhere in the area he had his own hideout, later, along the track he went through Svrlig, to Književec, where a really big panic occurred, where a lot of people are now trying to find this maniac, along with our police force, with our gendarmes, along with people who are hunters, who know every inch of that territory. For me as a man, a parent, a brother, a son, it's very important that such maniacs, such paedophiles, are sanctioned in the way they deserve. I am a witness and here Mr. Risticevic spoke, and Mr. Juric spoke about the Court of Appeal. The judge's name must be Majic, Malic. The man who freed the paedophile, the man who explained the verdict, said that he and his nationality did not know that it was not allowed. Because of such people, paedophiles are now released who are ready to do the same work at any moment tomorrow. I think the VSS must react urgently to such decisions by the court, no matter how independent the judge is in his work and works according to the law. I think we need to work, and the court and all of us in the interest of all our citizens. There's got to be legal certainty and that's understood, but if some rapist rapes kids, he goes back to that same part after he's been punished, and someone releases him again, I think we have to put a finger on his forehead and say whether or not we normally give those people a pedophile's acquittal. That is why I would once again invite all people living in the territory of eastern Serbia, that if they have knowledge, now that police, military, gendarmes and all the people there, with efforts to find that maniac, to provide information. And once again I ask the VSS to reconsider the decision, that all those who conduct proceedings against such people, have to work in accordance with the law, these people must be sentenced to the most severe punishments and not be released, and tomorrow people are scared. In Srlig, people are afraid that another man was freed, who also had similar shops. Parents are now waiting for children, they're afraid for children. We must never condemn anyone in advance, but if someone has already committed a crime, especially a promise against a minor child, attempted murder, etc. These people must be punished most severely, and these people must not be allowed to be free unless they are able to control themselves. So once again, my question is – when and how will every judge who allows the pedophile to go out on the street and set him free like he didn't do anything, and then there's a situation where the same pedophile does the same thing again and kills its victim. I'm saying this because now it's happening in the territory where I live, where people from the Bookies live, Svrlig, Malche, Nis. I seek responsibility for anyone who puts his hand on an innocent child.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68219	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, I will address the issue asked Tuesday by counterpart Hasani, Serbian Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, to ask the government. It was my day to admit a little shocking what we were hearing, and I was listening to a question about when the ethnic Albanian minority would get rights in Serbia. I'm asking today if my colleague Hasani was referring to a minority who expelled 250,000 non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija and can testify to at least 15 of my colleagues in this room right now? Why later it turned out that the issue of fellow Hasani was not by any chance, because from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's most brutally accused president, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the foreign minister. The biggest national issue is the issue of self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija, they returned to a hundred international factors, and were then brutally accused of paying some money in the Bedžet Pacolli language. Dear colleagues, my question is not only for the government of the Republic of Serbia, but my question is for all of us. When we took our oath as People's Messengers, did we have any awareness of what the oath said? Did we know then that we were obliged to protect, first of all, national and state interest? What is so important today and so much more important than the state's interest that in such a brutal way, lies are brought forth in the hall of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly? What is the reason to leave room for today's daily newspaper to quote what kind of advisers to some Bedget Pacolli in terms of -- we told you that Serbia and Dacic are paying for those confessions? What is the reason to close our eyes over the fact that the recognition of the so-called state of Kosovo was paid for by money made exclusively by the trade of bodies from the "yellow house"? What is the reason to close our eyes on Serbian victims and say that this market in the west was very elaborate and that the victims were both children and old people and all that is not Albanian from Kosovo and Metohija? Since no one questioned the money we paid lobbyists, it doesn't matter if it's in the American Congress or Brussels to represent that secession that happened, but we got the courage just to ask and accuse Minister Ivica Dacic of something he can't really be accused of? All that stands behind us when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, is measured by countless cemeteries that have been destroyed, monasteries, churches, not to talk about houses, not to talk about the property of people who have been expelled or have remained to live there and suffer torture on a daily basis. The Orthodox cemetery in Lebanon was brought down again on December 16th, so not full ten days ago. I ask the director of the Kosovo Office, since I am sure that the Kosovo Office intervened, did any answer come from Cafort in the sense that we know who persistently repeats this vandalism and destroys the Serbian cemetery? Here, my colleague says Bedget Pacolli, I have no dilemma that you're right, I'm afraid of one other thing. I was sure that we here must defend against some kind of leadership of the so-called state of Kosovo. Since two days ago, I am almost convinced that we have representatives of the government in Belgrade as well. Which means that in the Serbian Parliament, here is counterpart Risticevic, thank you for the suggestion, says they are ambassadors. Maybe it's what it's called, I find it very difficult to accept. But what I must ask of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that criminal responsibility, first of all in front of the authorities that this country has and in full capacity, is called upon by all those who, by carrying out such brutal lies, for anyone whose account, are destroying the system and accusing itself of the summit of the Republic of Serbia for defending their sovereignty. It is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we are as MPs, so we trusted the Government with this way of functioning and destroying the state of reckoning once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68221	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68222	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, at this very moment as we sit here, at this moment in Podgorica, in the parliament of Montenegro, a law on freedom of religion is passed, even ironically called, under which the name is actually hidden, not a very hidden intention, that just one religion, the largest and most traditional Serbian, Christian, Serbian Orthodox Church, is denied its rights and attaches to its sanctities and its objects. We've heard a lot about it in the last few days, words. My question goes to the address of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about what has been done on our part, by Belgrade and the state of Serbia on the matter. We, at least publicly stated, had a very soft reaction and a completely inadequate reaction as a state to this vandal spell and vandal law. She reacted to the SPC, she reacted to mytropoli, but I think the state authorities, here I am now going to specify a few formulations, react extremely inadequately. I'll be even more open, reacting as if it were an internal crisis, a crisis in a remote African country, in a Zambian country, a Zanzibar or Namibia or Namibia, as one fellow politician would say. So, President Vukic said that Mr Djukanovic, however, disagrees and does not think the same about the Law of Religion, but it happens in a country where he is president and which is why I have no right to interfere. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was even more, as I would say, more explicit and milder, if possible, says - this situation is ungrateful, we must be careful not to turn out to be involved in Montenegro's internal affairs, and concludes Mrs. Brnabic - we must be smart and thoughtful. I agree that it should be smart and thoughtful, should try all diplomatic, responsible means to prevent it, it should try to vote this harmful law that attacks, not only on the SPC, but also on religious and other freedoms, human freedoms and the rights of Serbs, means citizens of Serbian nationality in Montenegro. So, I think, I'm asking the competent institutions, what have they done? More importantly, what do they intend to do if, at this very moment or in half an hour, the law is voted in the parliament of Montenegro? So, will we continue to talk about not getting involved, that we must be smart and thinking and what is the range, what are the effects of so far and, under quotes, the smart and thoughtful policies that the Serbian government allegedly led towards Podgorica on this issue, and I would say on other issues when it comes to the Mil Djukanovic regime? So that's not turning the other cheek. That's a lot worse than that. It's ignoring, it's kind of leaving the citizens of Serbian nationality and their countrymen in Montenegro to their fate, that is, one authoritarian and I would say anti-Serbian, increasingly anti-Serbian and anti-pravoslavic regime of Milo Djukanovic. In this light we see a mechanism, a mechanism that is often repeated, that the simplest remarks and questions on this side, whenever it comes to KiM or Montenegro, always encounters a similar mechanism of response, whether written or oral, whether in the media by the government. You want to fight, you want evil blood, you want to invite malts to war. No, it's not like that. There's a whole range of masochism and patience to be trampled by, to be called to war, and I don't know what irresponsible adventures. Our government doesn't seem to know or want to see the whole range of opportunities that are legitimate, political, diplomatic and reach for them, and not like I said, to react to this as if it were a problem, a distant Asian or African country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68223	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68224	Thank you, Chairman. I expected to read the news these days about how this previous speaker, a false protector of Serbian sanctity and Serbian national interests, is fighting there in Podgorica against the harsh regime of Milo Djukanovic. I expected to see that he was in Niksic, but unfortunately I didn't read that news. I have to ask him, and what did he do in 2006 when Montenegro seceded? What measures did he take? What did his Tadic do in 2006? Well, it's the same Milo Djukanovic that was in 2006 and today in 2019. What was his Kostunica doing then, and what was he doing, likely busy researching public opinion on "Lutrija Srbija", so he did not have time to deal with the position of Serbs in Montenegro? When it comes to the parliamentary issue and before moving to the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform the public that today 360 is a day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work, and for which they receive pay neatly and thus send a message as to what their relationship to the function they perform is, what their relationship to the National Assembly is, but also to the citizens of Serbia. I have a few MPs' questions. The first is directed to the Association of Journalists of Serbia, then to the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, but also to all other news associations, and especially to the press council. Namely, regarding the unsigned newspapers that appeared several days ago in Serbia, which were found to be printed and distributed by Dragan Gilas and his Alliance for Serbia. Here's what these newspapers look like. I don't know if the camera can zoom in. So, will the Association, as well as mention the Press Council, react and condemn the printing and distribution of these newspapers that represent the dirtiest campaign in Serbia. Also, a question for the Ministry of Culture and Information – has the Public Information Act been violated? Because there's no impresum anywhere in this piece of junk, so there's no signature, there's no who owns it, no who's the press, just no press, just so we know who to sue. We can't sue anyone now because we don't know, nobody signed this. They write a bunch of nebulos, a bunch of nonsense, a bunch of lies, a bunch of inventions, and then they don't sign them on purpose to avoid criminal responsibility. Same as the N1 that works. They register, who knows where, then they lie every day, and we can't sue them because they're not registered here. It's that school. Well, then those from the Gilas Alliance for Serbia, probably in their hastyness, got a little carried away, so they admitted that they are running the dirtiest campaign in Serbia and that they are exactly behind the financing, printing and sharing of this piece of junk from newspapers. The recognition is being viewed in an official DS Zvezda statement on an official Facebook warrant saying that its activists, or activists from the Alliance for Serbia, were sharing this very newspaper, an unsigned newspaper at the Mirievska Market a few days ago. Here is a statement by DS Zvezdaar, says – today around 10.15 hours, two SNS councilmen attacked activists, of course, lying, the citizens drove them out of the market, the SZS at Mirievska Market, who shared the newspaper. I ask the same question to the National Assembly Supervisory Committee, and since we are entering the election year, especially since there are indications that these things will be repeated in the campaign. Question for Dragan Gilas, why is he hiding that he's the one financing, printing and sharing this paper? The second question for Gilas is, what kind of print are we sharing this piece of junk? Are those 619m euros he earned while he was in power? I have a few more questions from the chairman of the ICJ, and regarding the scandalous statements by the Marines with an unconfirmed last name, it presents itself as a MP, although it does not come to its work and receives a salary as we know it. Namely, how much damage has Serbia's position in foreign policy been done, especially when it comes to the question of KIM, because of its monstrous statements, that Serbia is actually buying money from the sale of weapons from the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo by UN member states? So, how much damage is done to Serbia, because we know that the Albanians will now use these statements extensively, and whether SMEs will take measures in terms of the denial of these ludicrous and malicious allegations, which I suspect are not accidentally spoken of, but are said to be meant to harm and Serbia's position when it comes to the question of KIM. The last question, chairman of the Department of Defense, and I'm glad Mr. Vulin is here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68225	Please, fellow, finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68226	Are there indications that these claims are due to the involvement of foreign services in Serbia, which Marinika Tepic said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68227	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring as soon as possible acts from the agenda of this session. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army. According to Article 90(1), I hereby inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of Alexander Vulin, Minister of Defence, with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Yugoslavia's collapse by 1999, we managed to rebuild our army, to have a strong army of Yugoslavia, and this showed war, it showed, above all, that the army that defended Serbia in the KIM area within the Pristina Corps. After so many bombings, after so many shootings with the most modern rockets, she got away with minimal losses. They shouldn't have gone on land invasion, they shouldn't have. And the mistake was that the state leadership had accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan and allowed NATO to enter KIM without a struggle. NATO officers were amazed to see how long columns of our artillery, our tank units, our chariots and military forces are being drawn in order and order by the military order of KIM. All these dominoes have ruined our lives in 12 years. We're almost out of an army. Like, someone else will defend us, but your forwarding fingers were involved, some of you forgot that Tomislav Nikolic had already come out in a pre-election campaign with the idea that Serbia should not, and if elected, that he would inform all neighbouring states that we would abolish the army. Gentlemen, officers, you probably remember that, you probably couldn't believe your ears. You couldn't trust the Minister either, but you remember, I think. Fortunately, it didn't happen. We have already been through the presentation of General Delic, who represented our party in the previous debate, commending what was well done in the military, in particular we support the return of the parachute and special unit to the rank brigade. The Dosmanli regime has brought them down to battalions. These are the two best units, proven in all the fights that we have fought and that we need, because they can withstand the first strike of the enemy. However, we also support the weapons of our army, the purchase of modern modern weapons from Russia and Belarus, even if they were aircraft already used, and now restored, reconstructed, or as already said. There was a danger and there was a plan in the Croatian General Staff or the Supreme Headquarters to force their two brigades to force the Danube River and take 10,000 hectares of land on the left bank of the Danube, to which Croatia tends to refer to some other Austrian land books, because Austria was in its own time editing the Danube flows, so the appearance of the Danube coasts no longer corresponded to what was entered into the land books. The plan was to break in with two brigades, protect their two brigades, and then the EU and Americans to urgently request a ceasefire and complain. Which means, who knows if we could get them out of there and with what kind of trouble? Now they're out of their minds. Because of our air force, especially because of the battle tanks, because of our combat helicopters and those hoodies called "Nora" and they're very deadly and they're a lot of range. So, the situation is getting better, but we're not satisfied yet. You see how unseriously and these laws have changed, and they have abolished the rank of captain and class, we are now returning it, because there is one act between the captain and the major, however you turn, and from the aspect of the years of service that an officer should have until retirement and from the aspect of progress and extraordinary advancement, promotions and so forth. Now it's coming back, but it's no good, Minister, that you're not here to complete a proposal to reconstruct acts in our army. Why do we need acts according to NATO standards? We have our tradition and by our tradition, there were, of course, lieutenants, formerly captains of class II, captains of class I, and then this was cast out II class and the other captains and captains of class I, majors, colonels and colonels. However, what do we need NATO standards for general acts? We have our own tradition. What do we need a major general's act with the rank of a Brigadier General when it's essentially the same? It's not the same here now. Now there's a brigade general under the Major General, no logic at all, you'll agree. Why don't we return our old acts to the brigade general, the division general, the army general and the duke who can only win credit for war? It's our tradition. Why don't we get that back? We're out of army, corps, division. We need to rebuild that, too. The Kingdom of Serbia had three armies and a pleasure army and that is one of the reasons for its success in the First World War, especially by stopping two Austrian offensives. By pushing the Austro-Hungarians, or Croats, Bosnian Muslims and the rest of them to their feet, there was also a Kraut, but not too much, there were Hungarians, but most of all there were Croats and they committed the greatest crimes in the Sword, you know that better than I do. Why don't we get it back? The army is the highest form of strategic command. The Russians had fronts, but we don't have that kind of space where we would develop fronts as something above the army, but we can continue to develop armies. We're only four brigades in constant composition. I'm not giving away any military secrets. That's what NATO knows. You have NATO officers at the General Staff. We have eight spare brigades, but that's all very little. We must create conditions for the formation of stronger military forces. How do you implement mobilization when there are fewer and fewer military taxpayers serving a regular military term? I'm not in favour of returning a military term of a year or a year or a half, it's too much, but I'm a high school student of pre-war training or military training, and that's where you learn the most. I learned how to shoot a gun as a high school kid and I was determined to shoot, and I threw a bomb, and I knew to dig myself in. Well, that's what's most important for one soldier, everything else he'll learn in battle, or he'll know he's buried in time, or he'll die, there's no other. We know from this war, soldiers have learned from day one and in a month, two have been as capable as if they were born in army units. That's what I'm about to return to serving the army horn, but not this for two weeks, it's like someone wanted to mock it, you can't learn anything, you can't feel the life of a soldier in two weeks. To make it two, three months and then have people who have basic knowledge, know how to drive a tank, whoever knows how to drive a car won't be hard to learn how to drive a tank, there's a little more to do with the aim, but in a month, two can get over it. You know, I remember serving a military term for almost a year and spending a lot of time on all sorts of nonsense. One third of total training was political teaching. What do we need a political class for? It's enough for the army to sing Chetnic songs and it's a political class. But that's why we were trained, we were quick to master. However, I was a teleprinter connection, I learned useful occupation, blind typing with all ten fingers on a typewriter, learning everything there, but it doesn't take that long. When they have nothing to do with us, instead of sleeping in the afternoon, they raise us up to put our hands together in a cassar circle, and I was in an elite unit on Topcider in 369. Even though I don't smoke, I'm collecting my butts around the circle, that's what the army gets the most annoying about. It's kind of a deal, I know, but we're not at that time that such a deal can bring something good, because soldiers aren't illiterate now and so many ignorants and come from some remote places, so you teach them something by collecting buttocks, he has to commit himself to getting military knowledge and then he's satisfied. Every time he learns something new, he's happy. You can learn enough in two months. Where we can't, where we need professional soldiers, there's a military technique that can't be mastered by regular training, even if it's been a year, right? So that's where professionals need to spend their entire working life and gradually advance with a certain kind of fighting resources. It should form a Chetnik Corps, the first Chetnic Corps to be composed of volunteers. Just laugh. You know, gentlemen, those who don't know anything laugh, but neither the army seems to have served. In World War I, the Serbian General Staff made a big, terrible mistake. They were expecting an attack by the Austro-Hungarian armies from the north, through Sava and Danube, and thus deployed their available forces. Few people believed the Austrians would strike over the Drina. And they attacked over the Drina. And who was there to meet them? Serbian Chetniks under Colonel Vojislav Tankosic's command and some other units were. I can't remember all the names, so I'd better not mention any more. They were met here and slowed down and created enough time for our army to re-orient and they could go off on the offensive. That's what the Chetniks did. Why were the Chetniks good in this war? I'm not talking about those self-proclaimed Chetniks, the various paramilitary units that went to war to rob, like white eagles and some similar motives that were robbery, but Chetniks, volunteers in army units or police units. They had the most combat enthusiasm. They brought combat morals among regular soldiers. They were always ready and ready to chase, always ready to fight, for them there was no fatigue. It's an experience from this war and we have to work on it. You know, those who respond to a call to volunteer in case of a crisis, in case we're threatened somewhere, will again show examples of heroism and military training and some military talent. You know, there's a volunteer who wants to be a soldier, whose primary motive is to fight for his country. It's worth more to a volunteer than ten, fifteen of those who have been mobilized by force. It showed this war. That's why we have to have it. And, of course, affirm that Chetnik name, because the Chetniks were always freedom fighters, and there were also those who disgraced the Chetnik name, among the Partisans, the Communists, even more so. That's where it's clear who was really a fighter on the loose and who wasn't. Draža Mihailovic is, Costa Pecanac is not. I heard when our unit or a group of officers or pitomatists went to the Straight Mountain to honor Draži Mihailovic, that there were even threats. Was there any threat to any disciplinary sanctions in that case, Minister? Don't take cover over there. I want to look you in the eye when I speak. Don't laugh. Were there really any sanctions? It's our tradition. Shut up, so there was something, and it can't be. It's our tradition to respect, respect and cherish. I looked here and these Navy acts. And that's where the stupid thing was made. Lieutenant frigate and captain of frigate were expelled, so that act had to be restored. It's okay. But with these admiralial acts, there is now a Major General, a counter-admiral, and before that, an act of commodore. We never had that. Commodore. It's a violation of NATO standards again. What do we need that for, Wuline? Is that what you were for, an act of commodore? He doesn't listen to me. Are you listening to me, Minister? I'm having a little dialogue with you, Minister, as the leader of the opposition. Counter-admiral, vice-admiral, and it's written by the General Admiral. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw it. General Admiral. What's that for? General Admiral. There's enough counter-admiral, Vice Admiral, Admiral. He's an admiral with three stars, then he's a duke. He can become a duke and someone who's a sailor and a sailor, although it rarely happens. What else do we need here at our navy? We now have a river navy. She has some compositions that are respectable. I was watching a military exercise there on Tise's mouth, I guess. We must nurse our officers for the moment when we return to the shores of the Serbian sea. So, from every generation, one number of officers goes to the Russian Naval Academy for a year or two and learns the marine military trade, to be able to do so. Of course, we will continue to train those needed for the river fleet. She's very important. I've never underestimated her importance, especially when it comes to defending the Danube as a border river at present and a waterway. They also attack our Charengrad Ada and that island next to Vukovar and some other places. That's what we have to keep, and that's what we have to defend. But we must have a group of naval officers capable of managing naval units. It does not need to be something big, massive, to qualify for patrol ships, submarines, and to be able, when we return to the Serbian sea, to defend the Serbian sea, never to fall out of our hands again. There is a controversy here over the role of our armed forces in the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija. Under the Chernomidin-Ahtisari agreement, especially under Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, the possibility of returning up to 1,000 of our officers to Kosovo and Metohija is envisaged, and in 2000 more, we formed that unit made up of soldiers and police officers. There were exactly 999 of them. I think Goran Radosavljevic Guri was her commander, or Bozo, who? (Božidar Delic: Vukadinovic) ) General Vukadinović. Afterwards, General Bozidar Delic was also there, while the unit existed. And another one came after you, right? (Božidar Delic: Markovic) ) Markovic. And then that unit was disbanded. Since 5 October, no government has requested that our army and police, according to Resolution 1244, return to the Kosovo and Metohija areas. Some of the authorities here have complained that this is not possible, as the decision is made by KFOR's commander, a NATO-authorized general. How do you know it's not possible? Maybe it was possible more times than no one's ever tried, no one's asked. We were supposed to ask each month to apply and to defil and show our skills, etc., so we could move on to the Security Council that question when will our army and the police return. (Alexander Martinovic: Well, did you run? We weren't the government. (Alexander Martinović: In 2000 you were the government. No, in 2000, we formed that unit, and then a mob coup was made. (Alexander Martinovic: What about before the coup? We started, we talked about it all the time. (Alexander Martinovic: And did you send it to the Security Council? ) You don't understand that, Martinovic. You better stay out of it. What I have to send, it wasn't my jurisdiction, but the government was supposed to send, the President of the Republic needed the Prime Minister, the government was supposed to look for it, and she didn't ask for it. Well, he needed the Minister of Information of our government to look for it, so he didn't. (Alexander Martinovic: What about the Deputy Prime Minister? He couldn't, because he was in economics and finance, and don't waste my time here, I still have a lot of time. So, you should've searched all the time. If it hasn't been requested so far, it should start now. Incessantly demand, demand, request and request. Looks like there's no will to do that. All these governments have been afraid, since October 5th of here, if they didn't object to the Western powers, and that's why they hesitated, everything would somehow please them. Here's what this advanced government of yours should have done. When they pressured you to accept the IPAP agreement, it might not have really been a chance to avoid it. We were not in the congregation then, were we, Natasha, but we opposed it. If you couldn't stop it already, then you could have said – come on, we'll accept the IPAP agreement, and you can bring our 1,000 soldiers back to Kosovo and Metohija. It didn't occur to you, and you could. Why didn't you? Now you can say - if you don't want our 1,000 soldiers back, then we'll cancel the IPAP agreement. For us, the IPAP agreement is the greatest danger. He allows NATO troops to enter Serbia's territory at any time. If they do any damage to a civilian, they don't respond, if they damage the state property, they don't respond. They can enter Serbia's territory and reach such concentration that the entire territory is practically occupied. Afterwards, it's not hard to change power. They enter there, instead of Vucica, will find Ana Brnabic and a declaration by Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. It's no easier for them. You created these circumstances yourself. And this is how Vukic must lead with him, when he travels far away, Zorana Mihajlovic, so as not to surprise him in absentia. Yeah, she's ready as a stuck-up rifle to become the governor of Serbia's occupation administration. I'm not kidding at all. You don't want to clean up the government. Well, you won't, what can I do? I can't force you. For your own good, you need to perform before the government's reconstruction is elected. For your own good. Who knows what can happen, what brings the night, what brings the day. This is what we have to do. So, you keep asking for our military and police unit to come back, so if he comes back, then ask for a little increase in composition, and then a little increase again. They give us the ideal assignments there. The border crossing towards Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro to guard military and police forces, it says in Resolution 1244, to guard churches and monasteries and work to demining. The job is mostly done, at least it's finished at those key locations where people are exposed to dangers. There may be somewhere else to do it, but that's not the problem. We've got two, three tanks with those rollers pushing in front of the tank and in no time these minefields are being eliminated. So that's what we should do, but we should remember that. We should have good will, we should have a desire to achieve something on that plan, not wait. No, he didn't order a commander of KFOR, so we're waiting, and if he did one day, we don't have a ready unit. We don't want to glean, it's not like going on these peace missions, so come on, we'll pick a few out of each unit, and then we'll send. We send peace missions around the world, it costs us dearly, most of the time we pay, right, Minister? Hello, Minister, are they paying more or us? They do, and we pay pretty much the same. Okay. Well, maybe some experience gets gained, I'm not going to deny the importance of it, some experience is significant, so maybe it's used afterwards, and we expose our officers to being recruited somewhere out there, to kind of draw them in, compromise them, and then recruit them. That's not good. Anyway, there are ways, but all we have to do is work on them and have an even stronger army. We have reached a certain level of initial satisfaction, but not all, and how there is more to be done, and how there is more to be invested in the military and what the President of the Republic has suggested will stop buying weapons, we are categorically against it. Many more weapons must be purchased and manufactured and further trained in our factories, to produce as much as possible here in Serbia and to continue exporting weapons. We Serbian radicals never attacked the export of weapons. We wouldn't allow guns to be exported to Ukraine, but Poland can. What can we do to control further what the Poles do to those weapons? Maybe they're burning it in Poland to make the fields better? In any case, it wasn't our goal to attack the dedicated industry, but to prevent any crime if it really happens that the weapons are cheaper to get private firms, rather than "Jugoimport SDPR" as a state-owned firm. It's just a problem. We still have no record of what really happened, and we want that data. Furthermore, you are constantly boasting about neutral politics, the status of neutrality, and no one has yet guaranteed us that status. The status of neutrality can easily have one Austria, when so-called Austria is achieved. A state contract signed by the Western forces and the Russians and the Soviet Union. She still has to exist by letter of the state contract. Under similar circumstances, without occupation, the status of neutrality has been obtained by Finland. She got it a lot earlier in Sweden. We do not have such a status of neutrality and therefore our long-term option cannot be neutrality. It's not worth the neutrality that no one has admitted. Yugoslavia declared Belgrade an open city in 1941 and did not defend it. But that didn't stop Hitler from bombing him. He could have entered Belgrade without any bombing, but he wanted to take revenge on the Serbs and then bombed him, and then the English wanted revenge on the Serbs, so more Serbian civilians died in English bombings than in Germany, both in Belgrade, and in Leskovac, and in many other cities, and in Nis, of course. So that's what's been happening to us. If that's not our perspective, then our perspective is ODKB. We must join the military alliance with Russia. We must join Eastern integration, into the alliance of Russia and Belarus. We must go to all other forms of Eastern integration, and to the Euro-Asian Union, and to the Association of Independent States, wherever opportunities are opened, we must. We must integrate our army as well. This does not mean that Serbs will go to serve Russian or Belarusian armies. We'll keep all Serbian units. We can even the uniforms. On our Serb units on the sleeve that stands the coat of arms of Serbia and the name of Serbia or Serbia and that nothing else distinguishes the uniform. So, to preserve the state identity, sovereignty, membership in the UN, but to integrate in everything we need to integrate, especially the joint highly specialized military compositions that we have. I was happy when he arrived "with 400" in Serbia and that he would stay in Serbia. But the minister sadly told me he didn't stay, did he, Minister? We can bring him back the same way again, so let's keep a group of Russian officers with him, together with our officers to work and let them handle it, train our officers, because after "by 400" come new compositions, new defense systems. We still need personnel training that way. Our officers who go there for a partial training show excellent performance, both as tankers and as handlers with various information systems for handling and commanding and in everything else. We have an officer, a Serb, a man who's genetically predestined for military service. All we have to do is give him conditions and our officers will always be as brilliant as they used to be. Earlier, the Serbian officer was brilliant compared to Austrian and even German. The Germans had better discipline, but as far as our officers' expertise is concerned, they were not lagging behind. So much for now. We still have time, don't we, Veronica? This will be the rest of General Boza Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68229	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68230	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, honourable Members of the People... (Vojislav Seselj: Brothers and sisters. )......................................................................................................... Brothers and sisters... (Vojislav Seselj domination. ) can, what's true is, what was wrong with that, well, you were in the coalition with us, I wasn't, I wasn't, and you were. I thank you for noticing and for wanting to say, even though you are the leader of the opposition, that the Serbian Army is stronger, that it is better than it was, that it is better armed, that it is taken care of, that its traditions are taken care of, that the army is modernised and that it is indeed the Army of our country and of our people. It's not a foreign-run army, it's not a foreign-run army, it's an army that serves the interests of the Serb people and nobody else. I think it would be healing for our entire nation if at least everyone accepted it as one of the national interests. A free army of a free country that no one commands to Serbia and the Serb people. When you spoke of acts, we also suggested that acts be changed because the formation and structure of our armies lacked several acts, so we suggested them. Vojislav Seselj throws. You didn't read it right. (Vojislav Seselj: I didn't read it correctly? )......................................................................................................... If I may, I'll explain now. What you see is written by the General Admiral. That means what the general is, it's a four-star general, the Chief of General Staff of the Land Army, in the infantry, whatever you want to call it, it's not infantry, of course, it's an admiral in the river fleet. If, for example, the Chief of Staff were to become a person trained as a sailor, it would have to be an act of admiral equivalent to the rank of Milan Mojsilovic general. So there is no act of the General Admiral, but it's called the Admiral General. (Vojislav Seselj: Here it says so. No, no. Here, take a look. You see Lieutenant General - Vice Admiral, so he's not Lieutenant General Vice-Admiral, he's vice-admirating the equivalent of the rank of Lieutenant General. (Vojislav Seselj: General Colonel. We did. Of course. But, therefore, that was equivalent, but it wasn't General Admiral Branko Mamula's name. Vojislav Seselj throws. It was only the Admiral's name. Do you understand? So let me get this straight. (Vojislav Seselj: He was the Admiral of the Fleet. But it doesn't exist here, we don't have a fleet. (Vojislav Seselj: How we don't have a fleet. Well, we don't, we have a river fleet, that's what it's called. So, if someone from the river fleet were to become Chief of Staff tomorrow, he would be called Admiral, equivalent to the four-star general, General Milan Mojsilovic, Chief of Staff Ljubisa Dikovic. So, it's, there's no General Admiral. By the way, I'm in favour of making a serious effort next year and making a serious effort to re-write the Military Act. So, not to change and supplement, but to write again from the first member to the last member because by adopting these important strategic documents, which are in front of you, we finally get the conditions that we know which direction we need to lead the Army and how the military should look, and what kind of acts it should have, well, that it needs to be brought into line with, which is not to be agreed on. That's the essence of this strategy. Neutrality, whether critical or not, gives us the opportunity, gives us the right in accordance with our documents to decide for ourselves what kind of army we're going to want to make. When we say neutrality, it means that we don't have to be, conditionally speaking, interoperable with anyone else but ourselves. That gives us a definition of neutrality. So far, we've had to adapt to certain other procedures. Now we don't have to. We say: "Come to the procedure for yourself, in my opinion, and I believe that there should be a law that will be written from the first to the last member." Will he have the support for that? We'll see. The assembly may decide, as you know, anything after the election. It also stems from certain political decisions, resulting from a new or old one, as decided by the Serbian Army. I think we should change the organisation of the Serbian Army. One of the reasons, besides why we returned 63nd and 72nd to the rank brigade, is not because they suddenly created another 500 paratroopers who went through all the training and now can become it, but because they need space to fill those brigades, space to get new tactical tasks, and they will get new tactical tasks according to this strategy, according to the new definition of our Army. Of course, you shouldn't forget that. It's very important for the morale of our armies, for the morale of our people, to see that those who have defended their country to appreciate it, not to forget, that someone can't punish you by putting you down to battalion level. It literally looked like punishment. You've brought down the heroic brigades to the lowest possible level. Who would give up? Why don't the Americans give up the 101st Air Force? Why don't the Russians give up their guard brigades? They're not the same anymore. The Americans still have horse names and not only Americans, Great Britain still has the horse names of its units. They don't have horses. They have tanks, but you keep your tradition. That's what we showed. We did that and, of course, we made it possible for a new organization, a larger number of formations, a different schedule for people to be able to stay in that unit from the beginning to the end, members of our special units. These are people who are forever bound to their unit. And if he can choose anything and his unit, he will always choose his unit. General Delic knows how many of these people are related to belonging, to others, to the rifle, as the paratroopers say. That's what they wanted to take from them. They couldn't get it. I don't think I'd agree on morale. We need morals. We need a moral authority. What we brought back. When those so-called so-called things were made. reforms in our Army after 2000 we had numerous foreign consultants, one of which, among other things, when he abolished the Office for Morals, he said – what do you need it for, you don't need it. Then our officers, of course, asked -- how should we not, the Serbian army always had a moral authority, why not? This is how they explained it – your morality promotes values that are offensive to your neighbors. We need a moral administration and all the armies of the world have some kind of moral administration. For example, the Russian army has now introduced an aide to the Russian Federation for morality that deals only with it. It's okay, and it's not a political class. They will not sit and watch the diary, so it is said to them, as it was, that it is properly directed, correctly interpreting events. No, but morale is a set of values that an army makes. The Serbian army is not a listed entity. It's not a bunch of mercenaries you can send anywhere you want to do whatever they want and whatever they want. No, no matter what professional soldiers they are. No, because the Serbian army is part of the people. The Serbian army keeps the values that our people have made great, and that is the Serb army. That's why we need this anyway without any political connotations. In the matter of neutrality, it is a fundamental orientation of our country and to share my impression with you – no one will admit it to us, no one will guarantee it. That's our attitude, that's our decision. That we wait for all of them to commit to us, they will never define themselves towards us. It's up to us to say what we want and it's up to us to tell that we in the big conflicts won't participate. And whether anyone will respect or not, as you yourself said, in April 1941, Belgrade's open city, the force of God does not beg, they did what they wanted. Who was the SFRJ threatened by then? Who was threatened by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? What were we supposed to do to avoid bombing? We could have disappeared. We'd have been bombed again. What happened to the Republika Srpska bombing? When it comes to that, then some other moves that don't fit into any strategy, no law, no orientation, then, as you know, from that time on, struggle as we know and know it. As far as further arms, training and everything else is concerned, the military will develop in accordance with its planning and programming documents. They've been coming forward for years. It's not something that started with me, it won't even end with me. The army, these people who sit here and their colleagues, in the most professional way, evaluate what it takes for our army, how it will develop, and in the extreme line, and that comes from this strategy, because you know from this strategy what kind of army you want, what your goals are, how you make it, and therefore, accordingly, you arm it. The same applies to the territorial organisation of the Army, the same applies to the names of the units, the same applies to the number of units, the same applies to the composition of the units. These are all things that are done further, just from this strategy. I can't accept that Alexander Vukitch is running away from a grudge against anyone, not even the West. You know how much he's been attacked, you know how many sides they're attacking him, you know that these street gatherings aren't without the support of the West. You know well that every one of his sightings with Vladimir Putin, Si Jinping, comes across a very violent reaction to the West, you know very well that he is the only man in Europe, the only politician in this part of the world who has had the courage to say that he will not impose sanctions on Russia, who has the courage to say, yes, I will buy everything I need from the East, when it comes to weapons, by exposing ourselves to sanctions, we don't know, he may impose sanctions on us for everything we've bought. That's very possible. What do we do? We're not handling it, and we're not handling it. You know he's the only man who said loudly that he would never participate in anti-Russian hysteria. I'll draw your attention to another important detail. You know, by 2012, the Russian ambassador didn't enter the Department of Defense. That would be just as crazy as saying that an American ambassador never enters the Department of Defense. You can't ignore the world's greatest forces, you need to talk to each of them. How can you act like that at all? That's what they were doing. And, ODKB, this is the first time that the ODKB has ever been mentioned in strategic documents where we clearly say that we want to co-operate with the ODKB and we're already implementing it. And for your knowledge, we with the ODKB this year have had two military exercises. It never was. With a NATO pact of three military exercises, with the Russian Federation of Six Military Exercises, with the United States of America, six military exercises, not to mention dozens of military exercises that we have bilaterally with a variety of things, it's more like, to be honest, activities than military exercises. The military exercise is still the highest and cannot be done so often. I'll give you an example. With Belarus next year, I think we have 36 joint activities. Belarus has more joint activities only with Russia, with no one else in the world, and it's not like we're neighbouring countries and we're the closest. So we're talking about the political orientation of the free peoples who act like that. Next year, I look forward to a historic military exercise with the NKK, that is, with the National Liberation Army of the NK. It never was. As you know, China is not a member of any military block. So this is about the changed position of our country and our army. We want to work together, we want to learn, we want to work, and that's how our army progresses. It's the only way our army can strengthen. You can't put equality in front of the advanced government and those who were before us, no way. In no equivalent can this equality be drawn up in any way. We're not a sign of equality. We only take care of Serbian interests and nothing else. That's the kind of army we make. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68231	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You'll get a replica. (Vojislav Seselj: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68232	I answered after the amendment. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica first. Let's get some rest, Martin, and let me finish. Here, let Mr. Seselj say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68233	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68234	I still praise him for his lordship. Minister, what about the IPAP agreement? It's a knife under our throats. Why don't we have the same level of relations with NATO and with the ODKB, if we're for neutrality? We should. We're just bystanders, aren't we? Although it was agreed that I would be the head of our National Assembly delegation to the ODKB, it was changed behind the scenes, so you sent your man out of trust, what's his name, Milovan Drecun. You were afraid of my performance there, and that I was going as a member of the delegation and that he was the boss, and that's not working, is it? It's not working. Why do we need a NATO office at the General Staff? In the middle of General Staff? Did it happen in their pants that they were going to the offices of the General Staff, those officers and the officers there? In Japanese, in sweatpants, in shoes. It wouldn't surprise me. What do we need that for? Or why don't we have the Russian army office there or the ODKB? Why does the NATO Pact have all possible privileges in Serbia and our government has not yet given diplomatic status to Russian experts at the Centre for humanitarian interventions in Nis? In the Serbian-Russian centre, she hasn't given it yet. Are we correct enough with the Russians? Whenever it goes down, Mother Russia help, and as soon as it gives in, now we're pretending to be important, then our stepmother and we want to be with NATO and with the rest of our enemies. Does it make sense after that bombing that there's a NATO office in General Staff? You didn't open it, but why didn't you close it? What you didn't say -- the NATO Pact deserves a special building to rent in Belgrade, where its diplomatic military representation will be. That would be correct. Do you have our office in the seat of the NATO Pact? Do you? Where? Where are the brushes and brooms? Is he there? (Alexander Vulin speaks from the city. Come on, Minister. They gave the Russians free movement there, I know. A representative of Russia's former NATO alliance, Rogozin, spoke to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68235	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the amendments are concerned, and as far as Mr. Seselj's exposure is concerned, I just want to make a few views of our parliamentary group. Mr. Seselj said hello, and there is absolutely right, that the Army of Serbia is arming itself, that we started restoring our military resources, that we started to acquire the most modern weapons, mostly from Russia and when it comes to tanks, and when it comes to planes, and when it comes to helicopters, but also other military equipment. Today, every soldier has a new uniform and two pairs of boots and modern firearms, etc. But don't forget that none of this would have been possible if structural and deep economic and financial reforms had not been launched in 2014 and the state had not been financially consolidated. It was the 2012 Republic of Serbia with the state of the budget, as it was in the summer of 2012, without being able to buy tanks, but not those helicopters. She couldn't buy a single machine gun. Why am I saying this? Because the knife was welcomed by the measures we started to take in 2014, and here in the National Assembly, too, very often, a little bit of far-fetched and unspeakably talked about these measures, so we have, for example, our favorite theme here at the National Assembly about how we took money from pensioners, how we took money from this or that, and in fact we financially consolidated the state, so that we could even restore our country's military strength and that we would still be in the Western Balkans region of a respectable military force. I didn't understand this very well about the issue of military neutrality and Serbia's comparison with Austria. This is why Serbia is a sovereign and independent state. This contract, mentioned by Mr. Seselj, referred to Austria, which was occupied by Hitler, the so-called Anselus, or the accession of Austria to Germany, in March 1939. Earlier in September 1938, Hitler arranged with the English and the French to occupy Czech Republic and Moravska, so Churchill later called it the Munich massacre of Czechoslovakia. So, Austria since 1939, until 1945 was not a sovereign state, it was part of Germany. It renews its statehood only in 1945, with an agreement between the Western forces, i.e. Americans and the English on the one hand and the Soviet Union on the other. Serbia is not a occupied state. We were not determined by others to be military neutral, as Austria did. We ourselves have said that we want to be militaryly neutral, because we think that this is best for the citizens of Serbia, that we belong neither to any other bloc nor to the Western, nor to the NATO Pact, nor to the ODKB, although between the NATO Pact and the ODKB, there are very few signs of equality either in military or political terms. So we said ourselves that we wanted to be military neutral and no one forced it on us. It is legitimate that what Mr. Seselj is saying from the political party's point of view, whose president he is, advocates that we be part of one bloc, as others think we should be part of the NATO Pact, but it seems to me that the majority of the mood of Serbian citizens, which he is articulating right now, is that it is best for Serbia to be militaryly neutral, because when you are militaryly neutral, then you are politically free. Then you can make decisions the way it is in the best interests of your country and your citizens. As soon as you're part of a bloc, and no military block is just military, but it's also political, then you lose some of your sovereignty and you have to behave in some situations, not the way you want to, but the way you're told. And, by definition, the great forces, relative to small states, need to order. As far as this finding is concerned, that we should have the same uniforms as the Russians and that on our uniforms there should be Russian markings and that the Serbian army should write in Russian as well. The right to tell you, Mr. Seselj, when was that? (Vojislav Seselj: It must always be started once and for all.) Well, you're referring to some military traditions, but I don't remember. Serbia did not, you know, go back a little bit, go back to the 19th century, and then there was Serbia, and even then some people traveled to Russia and were in Russia, saw what was going on there and learned, among other things, and military knowledge and military skills, but no one thought that a Serb soldier dressed in neither Russian nor English nor French, nor in any other uniform. We only took other people's uniforms in extreme need, when we didn't have our own, because we were at war, and then we wore what we had, but when the army was in peacetime condition, as it is now in Serbia, I don't know if it was ever that we had someone else's uniform on us. This, about the Chetniks, is an interesting historical reminisce. I can agree with you in part that the Chetniks, those Chetniks from before the Balkan wars, were brave people and they greatly contributed to the release of Macedonia and KIM from the Turkish occupation. Among those Chetniks was a duke whom you mentioned, Costa Pecanac. You will admit that he was in the Chetnik movement, before the Balkan wars, an extremely brave man, Costa Pecanac, Costa Milovanovic Pecanac. So he was a brave man. Voja Tankosic, the same brave man. But what was the problem with those Chetniks? They were brave people, but they were adventurers, they were very often the state, in some situations leading to a very awkward situation. I'm only going to show you one episode that is very well known to you. You know who supplied the "Young Bosnia" weapons? Right now, among other things, Voja Tankosic and Apis. You remember that Nikola Pasic, then president of the Serbian government, warned the Austrian Ambassador to Belgrade, that Franji Ferdinand was threatened by going to Sarajevo. He did not say that because he had special sympathy for Ferdinand, but because he knew that Austria would use the murder of Franjo Ferdinand in Sarajevo to attack Serbia, and Serbia was not ready for war in 1914, because it had just come out of two Balkan wars. However, Voja Tankosic, such a desert, is brave, but a desert, adventurer etc., he said - no matter what I do, I will arm "Young Bosnia", let them kill Franjo Ferdinand and let us go to war. It turned out to have caused Serbia enormous damage. Serbia may have been ready for war in the right sense of that word only in 1916, 1917, but in 1914 we were in no way prepared for war and it was already shown in 1915 when under the attack of Austria, Germany and Bulgaria we had to withdraw through Albania, and you know how many human casualties we have suffered. This is about rank. I can agree with you, you've listed, I've recorded, a brigade divisional general, right? These are acts from the Yugoslav army, those Yugoslav armies between the two world wars. You didn't have an act of duke in that army. Draža Mihajlovic did not have the Duke's rank, Draža Mihajlovic was first appointed, or promoted in December 1941 as Brigadier General, before that he was a colonel and then a divisional general. So these traditions aren't exactly what you presented them. Just one more thing to say. This about the ODKB, however hard it is to admit it to someone, just since the SNS came to power, Serbia has received, or has requested the status of observers in the ODKB. By 2012, no one had thought to establish any kind of co-operation with the ODKB. We with the ODKB now have very good co-operation, we have observer status because we have defined ourselves to be military and political neutral, so some other status is hard for us to get at this point. The most responsible for that, whatever you think of him, I know that you have certain personal aversions towards this man, but the most responsible for the fact that the Republic of Serbia has won the status of observer in the ODKB, in addition to President Alexander Vukic, has exactly the head of our delegation, Milovan Drecun, who is also chairman of the KIM Committee. He also plays this important role as vice-president of the National Assembly, Veroljub Arsic. So, the SNS has just launched the initiative and the procedure for Serbia to gain observer status in the ODKB. In the end, this is about the NATO Pact. We agree, both you and I and all of us, that we have very negative experience with the NATO Pact, primarily because of the 1999 bombing, but also because of the bombing of Republika Srpska in 1995 and Republika Srpska in 1994 and 1995. But what is the fact that NATO is the only pact, i.e. that KFOR, which is essentially NATO's military mission to KIM, is that it is the only guarantee of security for Serbs in KIM. At this point, it is so, however hard it is for us to admit it, but that there is no such KFOR, with all its shortcomings, with all its failures, with all its evil will towards Serbs and Serbia, with all its aversion towards our country, towards our people, but what such security of the Serbs in KIM still provides KFOR. After all, you have examples where individual KFOR contingents, in Kosovo and Metohija are rather mild to Serbia and to SPC representatives. There are also those who are not favored, but there are those who are. So, I think we need to be very careful here as a state when we declare NATO's presence in Kosovo, because there are no other military forces down there. And now the question is, what if it wasn't for them? The few Serbs left in KIM, the Cypriots could very easily endanger, primarily their lives and their property, and make it happen to the Serbs as it happened in 2004 when KFOR turned its head on the other side and the state of Serbia did not react in any way. As far as the NATO deal is concerned, I don't think that's the way things are. There is no NATO pact of the powers you spoke of, nor can it occupy us, nor can it go beyond any part of state territory without Serbia's consent. So there is a very precise agreement on what NATO's pact to transit through Serbia on its way to KIM can and cannot do. And not all the powers you spoke of and the ratification of the agreement, Serbia has not lost its sovereignty. On the contrary, she proved her sovereignty by doing so, because we in some way forced NATO's conditioned pact that it must still adhere to certain rules when his army passes through central Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68237	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68238	For historical truth, Costa Pecanac was a hero in both Balkan wars and World War I. He raised the Warm Uprising in 917, perhaps prematurely, so the uprising was stifled, but he was a hero. In World War II, he became a traitor and what happens is that he becomes a traitor from a hero and is therefore sentenced to death and killed by a Chetnik. Others in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were acts of the Duke. These are acts with which the dukes came out of the First World War, and we also know that the Austro-Hungarian Feldmarshal Svetozar von Borojevic, otherwise a Serb, asked to be admitted to the Yugoslav army in the rank of the Duke, and he is responsible not only for not being able to get the rank of the Duke, but not at all to receive it. So there was this act, but no one deserved it. It's a sacred act. Draža Mihajlovic, if he had won, had the allies not betrayed him and I'm sure of it. But there was, look at Google, don't be rude to Martinovic, you're a serious man. As for the Sarajevo assassination, the assassins were assisted by Apis, and Tankosic did not, for a time they met with Tankosic, in his unit and it was more training without any significance of the assassination. It was not known that Ferdinand would come to Sarajevo on Vidovdan at the time they were with Tankosic. It doesn't take much watching this TV show, because there are a lot of incorrect things. Also, Milan Stojadinovic cannot be trusted with everything, but there are historical facts, there are scientists who wrote about it, and the best quality of it was written by Berdier in the book "Sarajevo 914". So Apis was involved, when the Serbian government found out about it, then demanded that the action be stopped urgently and the man was sent, I think his name was Rade Malobabic, was sent to stop the action, but he was caught by Austrians, tortured him, admitted nothing, and died under torture. One went to prevent it, so he was caught by police, and those who were shot in the Thessaloniki process, they participated in the assassination and the Thessaloniki Process was led by a proven charge that Apis was involved in the preparation of the assassination, and due to an unproven charge that he was preparing an assassination on the regent of Alexander. So, at that time, Alexander felt that there would be a chance for a separate peace with Austria, that Austria would give us part of BiH in return, and then the process was organised. So these are historical facts and it needs to be mastered a little more thoroughly. Martinovic, you're gonna need it. You're a young man.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68239	According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68240	Ladies and gentlemen, Costa Pecana has not raised the Warm Uprising. He was paralysed, i.e. thrown out of the parachute in February 917, into Toplico, and not to raise the Toplic uprising, but to reconcile the Serb population and organise the uprising when the Serbian Supreme Command asked for it, and the uprising raised one other Costa. So Costa Pecanac was tasked by the Serbian Supreme Command to drop it in Toplice, to prepare the population for the Uprising, and to raise the uprising when ordered by the Supreme Command, which was then in Greece. However, he found on the ground another Costa, Kostu Vojinovic, who raised the uprising in February 917 and practically Kostu Pecanac, there was nothing left, when the uprising was raised but to be included, but he did not raise it and he was tasked with raising it, not in February 917, but when it was ordered by the Serbian Supreme Command, but it is not now important. What I said about Tankosic, so it says Milan Stojadinovic in his memoirs, that one day Voja Tankosic, in the middle of Belgrade, jumped into the carriage of Milovan Milovanovic, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Serbia and literally told him – If Serbia does not enter the war with Austria, we Chetniks will kill you and Nikola Pasic, do you understand? So, I want to tell you that they were brave people, no doubt, but people of adventurers, people who didn't have much political experience and who didn't look two steps ahead, as Nikola Pasic did. What I said about the dukes, there was no Duke Mr. Seselj in the Yugoslav Army between the two world wars. Only the Dukes of the Serbian Army, Misic, Traveller, etc. who received this title in the First World War, had the right to retain it, but by law, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's highest military act was an army general. Otherwise, if there was a calling, or act of the duke, Draža Mihajlovic would have gotten it, because he has made an express progress in his military career. He was found in the rank of colonel, by King Petar II, in December 1941, look at the speed, and there is General Delic, who has now come out, at which speed this man has advanced in his military career. In December 1941, King Petar promoted him to the rank of Brigadier General, in January 1942 in an act of division general, in June 1942 in the rank of army general, and in June 1942 Draža Mihajlovic became Chief of Chief of Staff of the Supreme Command, which means that he was, not only as it was written in the media, the Commander of the Yugoslav Army of the Homeland, he would be Chief of Staff of the Supreme Command, the entire Armed Yugoslav Force and those who were in effect in the occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia and those officers who were in captivity, and the free soldiers who were in the countries, or territories of allies, but the act of the Duke did not exist. Otherwise, if there were, the government and the King would have given him that act, because when they promoted him in six months to the rank of army general, what prevented them from declaring him an act of duke?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68241	Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68242	You, as a man of science, should apply the scientific method. You probably know that the memory structure is secondary to historical exports and that if you couldn't trust it, you'd have to be critical of accessing it, and you're starting to assume, you'd have given it to him if he could. That's not true. It could have. In 1923, the Law on the formation of an army and a navy was passed, and according to that law an act of the Duke was foreseen and stressed that only war credit could be granted. It's 1923, look, find that law, there's a library here. It went on all the time between the two world wars, and the law was in force, and that law was never abolished. In 1921, France d'Epere became an honorary Serbian duke. And I found some sources, but it didn't end up checking that Serdar Janko Vukotic became an honorary Serbian duke, because as a member of the foreign army he couldn't legally be a true duke, gentlemen generals, you know that better than I do, I hope. He won the rank of army general in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and before that he became an honorary duke, as well as France d'Epere. (Alexander Marinocic: Honor? ) Slow down, yes. Under the Law of Design, an act of the Duke could be assigned, not to the Honorary, but to the Duke, but not to anyone. Draga would've gotten it safely after the war if he'd won, and that's what this is all about. As for these acts now, why don't we introduce them? No one should be given it now, but let it be found, it's a four-star general. There's no need in our army to get to that act regularly. Is that right? With three stars, that's enough. Brigadier General, Division General, Admiral General, and only specifically that he can... PRESIDENT(Vladimir Marinkovic: Thank you, Mr Seselj. I've always been denied. I haven't spoken in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68243	Martinovic spoke according to the amendment, Professor Seselj, to let you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68244	But I'm replicating him because he mentioned my name. So, as far as the Memorial building is concerned, it's not quite reliable, it needs to be used, it needs to be studied, but it needs to be approached extremely critically, because the least human memory is reliable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68245	Thank you, Professor Seselj. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68246	Okay, Mr. Seselj. Now you say that Milan Stojadinovic is not relevant, but Vladimir Dedier is relevant. (Vojislav Seselj: Who? ) Vladimir Didier. (Vojislav Seselj: He is a historian, scientist, academic. Vladimir Didier, Mr. Seselj, was a lawyer just like you and I. He didn't finish history, he was a lawyer. (Vojislav Seselj: He must finish history to be a historian. ) Well, well, what does a man need to finish medicine to get a doctor, according to your interpretation? (Vojislav Seselj: He can also be a surgeon... I'm trying to talk to you right now. So Vladimir Dedier was not an academic historian, such as Marko Atlagic, a man ended history. He was a lawyer, but it doesn't matter. But when he wrote his famous book "Sarajev '914", he used some memorial structure, and Vladimir Dedier used a memoir structure. Speaking of Vladimir Deedier, you remember it very well and much better than I did, as he wrote to Joseph Broz Tito. While Tito was alive, I read those books. (Jorge Komlenski: There was a line. He knew the order, he did. He then wrote contributions to the biography of Joseph Broz Tito, and praised Tito, how the great leader, how he freed Yugoslavia, how he gained great international reputations, etc. When Tito died, in 1981, if memory serves me well, he published new contributions to Joseph Broz Tito's biography and everything he said in his contributions he denied in new contributions, so instead of a great warlord, instead of a liberator he became a dictator, became a tyrant, became a murderer, became someone who loves women, wealth, etc. So, as far as Vladimir Deedier is concerned... After all, Mr. Seselj, you personally gave me a book, I bought something, you gave me something, it doesn't matter now. You mention Vladimir Deedier. Do you remember and you wrote it in these books of yours about Srebrenica and the genocide that didn't happen in Srebrenica? The same Vladimir Dedier, who you are now referring to in 1990, published the book "Genocid of Muslims" with Antun Miletic, in 1990, it was Vladimir Dedier, Antun Miletic, "Genocid of Muslims". There is Vladimir Dedijer calling for a document that was an integral part of the prosecution's material against you in your trial in The Hague tribunal, which is those of Draža Mihajlovic, the Chetnik commanders in Montenegro since 20 December 1941, Major Djordž Lašić and Captain Pavel Đurisac, in which Draža Mihajlovic, who was then on the Mine, has been staying away from the Germans, allegedly ordered by Blasic and Đurišić to cleanse Sandzak of Muslim, and Bosnia and Herzegovina of Muslim and Croatian lives in order to create large Yugoslavia and ethnically pure Serbia, is that right? So Vladimir Didier... You say Milan Stojadinovic is not a very reliable source. For me, it's much more reliable than Vladimir Dedeyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68247	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68248	Milan Stojadinovic wrote in emigration far from the country and had no personal, private, state and nothing else at his disposal, but in his memory. And that could be said. He did not see the neighbour between Milovan Milovanovic and Vojislav Tankosic on a random case, the neighbour was talking after the war between Mustafa Golubic and King Alexander, but it was not proven either, that he threatened Alexander to take revenge for the Thessaloniki process. Milovanovic was poisoned by "Black Hand", it's Apis's butter. He was poisoned by being sent by a boy to sell him fresh caught fish, the fish was full of poison, so big that he was the only one who could eat, there was no house, and he was a famous fan of fish meat, he loved fish, and he paid for it with his head. As for Milovan Milovanovic. I've read almost all of Deyer's books. "Sara's '914' is perfect. As for the contribution to the history of Joseph Broz Tito... (Alexander Martinovic: Contributions to Biography. ) Contributions to the biography of Joseph Broz Tito, what he wrote for the first time, were a lot of political apology, but these are scientific knowledge from our regime historians of that time. He only later learned of the "Mart's Negotiations". The basic value of his second volume was that he had singled out "Marto's Negotiations", that is, that is, that Tito sent to Zagreb to negotiate with the Germans, Milovan Gilas, Koč Popovic and Vladimir Velebit and they concluded the Treaty of Non-attacks with the Germans and the Pact on the Alliance against Chetniks. When the Germans came back, they let him get out of that grave of Neretva and deal with the Chetniks, and after he believed in their alliance, he took all the troops to Sutjesk, in the vicinity of Sutjesca. That's where the Germans first surrounded the Chetniks. Draža got away with his units in time because he had a good military intelligence service, only Duke Pavle Djurisic remained, because he thought he would help the Italians avoid capture. However, the Germans captured him and sent him to the Mauthausen camp, and him and his unit. Milan Nedic pulled him out of the camp after a while. And when the Chetniks were disarmed, what they found, the Chetniks recognized the status of prisoners of war because they were the regular army, the partisans at the time did not recognize. It was only before the end of the war that they began to recognise the partisan's status as regular soldiers. Then they surrounded Tito. Tito sacrificed both the Third Division and Central Hospital, all units gathered around to save him. Pavel Jaksic explained quite well in the two-dark book. So that's what this is about. As for Dedier's book "Genocid of Muslims", apparently neither Dedijer nor Antun Miletic, both authors of the book, have actually investigated a good definition of genocide under the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide. They called each mass murder genocide, and they operated with counterfeits. A modern Serbian historical science has exposed these forgeries. The alleged correspondence between Pavol Đurisic and Draža Mihailovic, there is this with Kosta Nikolic, there are also with Milosav Samardzic and with some other authors. I used it in writing this book of mine, which you bought for pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68249	Thank you. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68250	I bought some, some were given to me. (Vojislav Seselj: It was a long time ago. It wasn't long ago, it was months ago. Vladimir Didier, Mr. Seselj, did not find out about the March negotiations until 1981, and he did not write about them first. All Yugoslav historians knew about it, but they kept silent, and the first to talk about the March negotiations was Miso Lekovic, who, if I am not mistaken, wrote an article published in a military magazine in Belgrade, which was also called "Martovski Negotiations in 1943". What was the problem with Vladimir Deedier? He was a good historian of history, he was a good scientist, but he was a man who was a bit of a conformist. He loved a comfortable life. He liked to have and benefit from the regime and he wrote, not because some things he didn't know. He knew about the March negotiations, which was more widely known in the academic community of Yugoslavia then. (Vojislav Seselj: Not really. Ma, it was clear. You mentioned Costa Nikolic. Well, here, Costa Nikolic says that the Partisans have had a constant connection for the Germans since August 1942 through Croatian communist Marjan Stilinovic. (Vojislav Seselj: You should explain that to Vulina. Well, I have to explain to you, too, seeing as you don't know that very well. The first talks were not in Sarajevo, but were in Gornji Vakuf, then in Sarajevo, then in Zagreb. So the March talks include the constant negotiations of Partisans with the Germans since November 1942 through captured German engineering captain Hans Ott from November 1942 to March 1943. In March 1943, Tito agreed through his delegates Gilas, Koče Popovic and Vladimir Velebit that the Partisans would not touch the Germans without the Germans touching the partisans, even if the allies landed on the Yugoslav coast, even the partisans would sing – "if the fat English come, our machine guns will cut them off", because the partisans were afraid that the Americans and the English would help the troops. But it doesn't matter now. It's important that Vladimir Dedeyer knew those 70s about the March negotiations, but he didn't have the courage to write about it. That's what this is about. As for Milan Stojadinovic, you know, like me, that it was a very educated man, who recorded all his political activities. He didn't write in Argentina his memoirs just based on what we remember. When you read his memoirs, you can see that he agrees on dates, as he studied in Munich, as he doctored, as he became Minister of Government Nikola Pasic, who was a course of dinar compared to the French franc, which reforms he introduced, which years, etc. So there's no memory. He wrote this on the basis of his rather pedanically guided notes, and based on these notes, he also addressed what was happening before, or before World War I, and this is the relationship between Apis, Tankosic, Black Hands and the official Serbian government, led by Nikola Pasic. Now it turns out that in the end we listened to Nikola Pasic, not Tankosic and not Apisa, Serbia would have been better off in World War I, as it would have been better for us, Mr Seselj, and if we hadn't turned behind those adventurers who had escaped better in London, Boris Mirkovic and Dusan Simovic, who organized the 27th March coup and the first thing they... Well, and these, I don't know who they worked for when they pushed Serbia into the hills of World War I, and we just got out of the first two Balkan wars. I won't answer my word again. It is important that Serbia is a military neutral, that we are politically independent and not run an adventurous policy, but rather a cold head policy, which implies that we take care exclusively of the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68251	The right to replica has Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68252	Misa Lekovic published his book, Martinovic, in 1985. (Alexander Martinovic: What article? Leave the article, what article. Who read the article? He was assigned to do so in 1967, but he only published the book after Tito died. And he had to wait for Tito's death to tell the real truth about him. (Alexander Martinovic: It was known in emigration. Ah, it was known in emigration. Well, emigration wasn't much believed either. Not exactly the people in emigration were just writing the truth. There's been a lot of imagination there, too. You should keep that in mind. But the book of Misa Lekovic came out in 1985, and Dedire's book in 1982 or 1981. I know, I was kicked out of the game at the time, so I remember, so I called that book when they kicked me out. But the press is waiting for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68253	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68254	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to look back on this debate that we had up to a few minutes ago and really say that Mr. Martinovic put out in one brilliant way a historical retrospective of what was going on, yes, both of them. It was great and nice to listen. By focusing on what is happening today and what is Serbia's future, given what Professor Seselj commented on the position of the military, in terms of what is defined and wants to define itself in the National Security Strategy and the Strategy for Defence, which refers to the policy of neutrality, concerns errors, especially political ones, not what the SRJ Army and the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro did after 2000, it refers to respect and insistence on respecting Resolution 1244. I will also refer to what is happening today when it comes to the country's foreign policy and the role of our military and the Ministry of Defence in helping and supporting our geopolitical position to be much better and to try to defend our national interests in a better and better way. I will return to that period between 2000 and 2012. Professor Seselj is absolutely right that nothing has been done in this sense and during this period, nor have we had concrete moves in the field of political insistence in decision-makers at the global level that this resolution is respected, especially in the sense that several hundred soldiers of the SRJ Army of the time could be present in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, to protect our churches, to protect our monasteries and, of course, to do much with their presence so that the Serb people who remained in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija could be much safer and be more normal and better to live. The same is happening in the period since 2008, when in February the interim institution in Kosovo and Metohija declare so-called. independence of Kosovo. Already within a few days, a few dozen states have admitted so-called. independence of Kosovo. We come to this situation that in 2012, when the Serbian Progressive Party wins the elections, when current President Aleksandar Vukic becomes defence minister, more than 100 countries recognise so-called. Independent Kosovo. Analyzing the situation and what happened between 2000 and 2012, especially between 2008 and 2012, I argue that half of these countries, and over 100 of them, have admitted so-called. Kosovo solely because of the inactivity of our state, our government, our Prime Minister and the president of the state, and especially the foreign minister, because they did nothing, because they had no idea how to defend Serbian national interests and so on. Kosovo. I am sorry to say this, but from 2000 to 2012 every new day has been given a new opportunity and a new space of manoeuvre to be even more independent of Serbia and what is worst to allow it to get greater support in the international community and globally. What's the situation today? What is the situation today when the president of the Republic fights daily for the Serbian people and defends Serbia's legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija? Here, in the past year and a half, 17 countries have suspended, or recognized the so-called confession. Kosovo. All these countries deserve to be held in parliament today, but not today, but always mentioned. It is the Republic of Nauru, it is Ghana, it is Togo, it is the Central African Republic, it is the Republic of Palau, Madagascar, Solomon Islands, Lesotto, Suriname, Grenada, Union of the Chamber, Burundi, Commonwealth of Dominicans, Sao Tome and Principe, Liberia, Guinea-Bissau and Papua New Guinea. I'm sure President Vukic is making more moves like that and we'll have more withdrawals in the near future, so-called "recognition." Kosovo. That's what essentially makes a country a serious state. It is a serious leadership and one serious struggle and knowledge about what national interests are, how the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a country is being defended. So, defend yourself in this way. When it comes to the country's neutrality, I have to comment, because there have been talks that Serbia should turn to much greater co-operation with the Russian Federation, even becoming a member of the ODKB. I think the current position of Serbia and the position regarding the neutrality of what is defined in the strategies itself, what is best for Serbia, and that is what the minister himself said in his speech well – yes, it will cost us more, yes, we will fight more daily for this neutrality, and when we have not fought? When these great forces, at the end of our little analysis of history, let's not go back far, but since the early 19th century, when they left us alone, starting with the Ottoman Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Anexias of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Balkan Wars and everything that counterpart Martinovic and Professor Vojislav Seselj spoke about during their performances? What's best for our country is to insist that we don't blame anyone, don't go in and out of the way to support the great forces of great reckonings. I'm just going to remind you of a picture a few months ago, of what, unfortunately, happened to a good people who, behold, has failed to have their own country for centuries. They're Kurds. The Kurds in northern Syria who in their support and dedication, the fight against terrorism, the fight against Islamic radicalism, the fight against the Islamic state, against Al-Qaeda, against Tahrir Al-Sham and all those organizations and cells, those worst terrorist organizations, experienced that in one day alone, they were abandoned and their support was denied in northern Syria and then the question arises – well, what were you doing in Deir ez-Zur where there are no Kurds? Why did you interfere so much and support some great force? So it can serve us as a serious example that it doesn't have to mean, if we blindly support someone, if we have 100% of someone's support for someone who's very big, who can protect us, that according to their interests, that support is not denied. That is why it is important for us to be and to work closely with the ODKB and the Russian Federation in military terms, but I think we have even more important co-operation with NATO, for pragmatic reasons. Martinovic spoke of the role of KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija. This KFOR, however it is, is in charge and in some way protects Serbs, protects the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, protects our cultural, religious and historical heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. What are we supposed to do? You want us to screw up their relationship with them? Of course that is not good and of course we should insist and improve relations with KFOR and the NATO Pact, but in a sense that does not threaten our country's neutrality again. I am sure that this co-operation with NATO on one partner basis, regardless of who has an office, is very important because these people, who are soldiers, who are commanders, who represent the NATO Pact here in Serbia, are better acquainted with the structure of the problem and that in this way we have a better influence on them and we better realise our legitimate interests in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in a better and better quality way to try to defend our people through this cooperation and defend our legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, we had the opportunity to, say, just a year ago, two years ago, the commander of Bonstilla, therefore, the American forces in Kosovo and Metohija, be someone of origin who is a Serb, and that is Nick Ducic. In any case, we cannot expect, although he is an American and primarily protects American interests and represents an American state, but in any case better co-operation, improving co-operation is what protects the Serbian people and protects their national interests. Also, I have to say, when it comes to determining the great powers, that we now have a specific situation with regard to the current relationship between Serbia and the United States. I want to say it publicly, both in front of my colleagues here and you ministers, but also in front of Serbia's public. Address for resolving issues in the Balkans, the address for resolving issues in Serbia is in Washington. We can say that we are oriented towards Moscow, towards Beijing, and it is good that we cooperate economically and politically, but we must have good co-operation with Washington because the US influence on Europe, and the whole region, is the biggest. The U.S. Army is in Kosovo and Metohija. He's not an army of the Russian Federation. They've withdrawn from KFOR. They also retreated when they took over Slatina airport, when our forces withdrew from Kosovo and Metohija territory. I am sure that the minister, although of course we all know his ideological commitment and his patriotism and the struggle for the Army to be stronger, better, and that it is promoted in the best possible way, but I support his one open attitude and openness to co-operation with everyone, inextricability, because I know that he is ideological and in every other way he is oriented, and I am sure that he would like to have an even better co-operation with the Russian Federation and the Russian Federation military and that he has excellent relations with his colleague, Sergei Soygu, but it is also very important that he is open to co-operation and the National Guard of Ojah, for co-operation with the U.S. Army but also with all other countries, so that our neutrality can be realised in the best possible way and so that we can come out of this neutrality as a state that is modernised, which is allowed to develop, which is economically progress and that strengthens the position and strengthens Serbia. It is very important to point out and say that this is of strategic importance to our country. What I also think is important to say is the US's attitude towards Serbia's legitimate interests in KIM. I will tell you a brief discussion with Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who was the speaker of parliament between 2008 and 2012. In 2009, she visited the American Congress and the Senate and had a meeting with the then chairman of the Congress, namely the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, who is today. I was wondering what kind of conversation lasted 45 minutes. She says - we talked about everything, about co-operation, about everything, and I tried to impose the topic of KiM at one point, where she told me as a representative of the majority that the democratic party had at the time, and now she has it in the House of Representatives, fortunately Serbia is not in the Senate, she said - the issue deals with third echelon of staff in Congress, the Senate and the State Department. Now, Mike Pompeo and Mike Pens and Obrian are dealing with this issue as a special advisor to National Security President Trampe, and the people in the State Department are involved. It's about Mitchell, and it's about Matthew Palmer, and now we have two envoys. One is for the Balkans, one is for negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. This is Richard Grenel, a man of personal trust and the great trust of President Trump. What is essential to us, too, is a good signal that America has changed its approach there. America today respects Serbia's legitimate interests in KIM. I think we should use that today. I think we should be both open and supportive, because our diaspora is very strong and very numerous, especially in countries where the US presidential elections will be decided, it is Ohio, that is Pennsylvania, that is Michigan, who has confessed after so many years that Serbia has legitimate interests in KIM territory and who has admitted that without Serbia, there is no long-term solution to the KIM issue. This should be a signal for us to improve this co-operation and to take advantage of this moment, as it is Minister Vulin in his text – why I am for the demarcation, he said nicely – we need now to take the initiative and we need to finally take advantage of our opportunity not to come into the situation as we did in the previous years, the previous decades to offer us something, to refuse and to lose everything in the end. Unfortunately, we are for these reasons that I stated from 2000 to 2012 day by day because we didn't want to fight, and no one will give us, you've told us well – neither neutrality nor KIM, nothing will give us unless we fight alone, and every day because of this inactivity and ignorance of what the state is, what the military is, how it defends itself, that it defends itself every day to the economy, the military, by strengthening defence forces, new weapons, planes, new equipment, we've lost our sovereignty and integrity in KIM territory. What did those who lecture us today do? What did he do that goes to the U.S. for 15, 20 days? Did he bring any investors? Did an American official visit and support us? The Wolf of Jeremiah. What was Gilas doing last year in February of the month? Incognito went to the State Department, never called the embassy. In the end, the cream on the cake, a statement from Marinika Tepic yesterday that is the same betrayal of the country, that our campaign to withdraw recognition so-called. Kosovo has been paid by some criminal and dirty money. Imagine, this is the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's for anals. That's what history will talk about in a negative context. I am sorry that we have such colleagues and that we have people to whom someone has given a voice from the people and who can and are able to make statements. We've been fighting for KIM for seven years. For seven years, this Vukic has been struggling to advance this country, to make it economically stronger, to finally stand on our feet, not to depend on anyone and anyone comes out without any responsibility and says anything – we paid for it with some criminal money and of course, who supports it? Their partners, Petri Celimi, Bedget Pacolli. Are those partners? We should be glad they're all on their own. When they rebel against something, which is, say, the activation of the 63rd paratrooper brigade and 72, that means we're on the right track. Unfortunately, in the year 2019, in the 21st century, we have people sitting here in parliament working daily to humiliate the country and to devastate our national interests. No one's responsible for that. No one, except for a couple of colleagues here, and, of course, it's a great honor for them, to take off my hat, to say, wait for the people, for this to be responded by a competent state institution. I guess there's a red line, some limit as far as we can go here. We can disagree ideologically. We can do political. I disagree with my colleagues on many things, but there is a red line, which is Serbia and nobody can say that Vukic has not economically recovered Serbia, has not militaryly recovered Serbia, Serbia is respected and why do we now have that position that no one can endanger us in this way as it was 20 years ago? Because we have dignity and because we're a reliable partner, because we're not talking to one Moscow, one in Beijing, one in Washington, but we have one policy, and that's Serbian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68255	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68256	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after these broad elaborates, I'll try to say something, if there's any room left. The army is one of the institutions in which our people have great trust and which gives great support. There is one more thing about this law and the introduction of new acts, which makes me very happy on the scientific side, which is that the military and universities and colleges may be the only institutions that care about the management of their members' careers. Today, in our practice and science, a very small number of state and private companies are taking care of career management. So I would recommend that everyone look up to the military, or universities, where it is done in science, or books. He who finishes the academy becomes a supporter. There's no way it's gonna happen, and it never happened, that someone who graduated from the academy became a general. And with us, in our country, it's a very common case for people to finish college, one way or another, and immediately become directors of some companies, give them great powers and give them the opportunity to manage big money. The army can't do that. I think the introduction of these acts is another contribution to career management, because, life has shown, the practice has shown that there was a new act between these two acts that would allow for a better transition, or the possibility for candidates to go on their career management according to the highest acts, in a timely manner. I hope that in the future, and the minister said that next year it is expected to pass a full law, that these problems will also be solved in terms of titles. I agree with all those who have said that we should cast out those acts that are not related to our history, to our country. Here, there's a commodore, I thought it was some kind of computer. This should be eliminated and those acts that were once in our army should be reintroduced and that we were all used to. Why did these names change? That's obvious. After 2000, those who came to power with foreign elements had to take some time off, and under the influence of these foreign elements introduced these new acts. On the other hand, I hope that our navy, or river fleet, will also have the opportunity to arrange this advancement and that some of the personnel come to the maximum, and I hope that this is the case now. I know when I was in the army, except for the terms of the job, the grades, etc., there was a condition and it had a formational place. I don't know how it's regulated now, because our Navy, or fleet, isn't quite disintegrated, there's no such great capacity, but I hope there's a chance for those who are the best and who will have the opportunity to advance to the highest rank. With pride and joy, I always remember the time I spent in the Navy, and very good memories remained for me on the Galeb school boat, and on the school boat "Adriatic", on our submarines, where I was on PVR 21 patrol ship, on Brion security, on new rocket boats and torpedo boats that came from Russia at the time, and I believe that in the future and this war fleet will provide itself with new weapons. The People's MP Alexander Seselj throws. For Judith will be next time, do not worry. Brothers or colleagues of the radicals, however you wish, I greatly appreciate your patriotic spirit, but I cannot accept that inexperience. I'm still a university professor... (Alexander Seselj: From the rural environment. The Peasant Environment? He doesn't honor peasants to be rude. He's chosen to be a patriot, to be a host, and that's where he's meant to be well raised. I belong to that hillbilly, too, but you could see I was raised enough. No problem at all, you just learn, work, advance, there will come a time when you and we will lead this country, but you have to change a little. I look forward to these changes and, I say, I look forward to next year, when the full law will change and when it will all be in the interest of our army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68257	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. Now the word has Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68258	Thank you, Chairman. After this serious historical retrospective by counterpart Martinovic who can certainly serve to analyse today's situation and make some better decisions and good decisions in the future, I will return to this Article 1. I think Article 1 in itself symbolically shows everything that has been done in the ministry in recent years. If we take a good look at Article 1, he talks first of all about the return of tradition through the return of some old, earlier officers' calls in Serbia's military, contributes to the human quality of Serbia's military and, thirdly, contributes to the motivation of each member of Serbia's army by giving some positive motivational factor. It provides a possibility for a serious career advance in the military hierarchy. Isn't that all that's been done in previous years when it comes to the Serbian Army? Didn't we, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do all these three things? Didn't we seriously raise, didn't we seriously return those traditions? Here's the final example of the return of the names of the famous brigades - 63rd paratrooper and 72nd special. Didn't we work to increase the quality of the military itself, first of all through buying modern weapons and equipment of the military, and didn't we all, together with the government and the president, raise morale, restore the motive for members of the Serbian Army and restore their citizens' trust in the military institution? Of all this, believe me, this third one was certainly the hardest. We will restore the tradition by making some serious decisions, by following orders from the commander-in-chief, that's what we've been doing, that's what we do, we see. We'll equip the army, buy some new modern weapons, run a serious fiscal and monetary policy, and we'll either save some money or make some money, and we'll be able to buy new weapons from that money. We've been doing this since 2014 and here, the results are now being seen seriously. However, the job of restoring morals and motives and trust in the military is a hell of a hard job. The job was first seriously launched by the first postdosian defence minister, current Serbian President and High Commander Aleksandr Vukic. Later, it continued. Here, Minister Vulin, it's reached your day, and you're on that path, and we certainly support you in that business. However, everything you do in the defence system and in the Serbian Army does not go unnoticed. These are successes, and your enemies and your opponents will not forgive you. Just look at how orchestrated in the last few days as we discuss both the Army Act, and these important strategies that track Serbia's path, the main political and defence in the future, as the attacks by politicians from Sarajevo are taking place simultaneously, our enemies and opponents from Pristina, at the same time, the pressures in Podgorica, but perhaps what is most painful, throughout this time, are being synchronised by the Marinika Tepic attack. Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic, on state policy. Believe me, it's not an accident, it's a highly synchronised and planned attack. And the planned pressure on both the military and the state. With that, to tell you the truth, I won't believe that in Podgorica, not yet, our opponents. With this in mind, and given today's developments in Podgorica, although I will once again appeal that decision-makers in Podgorica are thinking again, not to bring evil blood among brothers and neighbours, primarily my own, to appeal to MPs in the Montenegrin parliament, especially those MPs who come from the order of the national minorities, because this is an opportunity to show themselves as a bridge and contribute, I say, to reach such an agreement with Serbian political representatives and the SPC. However, it remains only for us today, to appeal, to pray, to urinate, because when it was due to work in 2006, no one acted at the time. Back then, people from today's Alliance for Serbia were busy with other things. They were busy counting money from robbery privatisations, counting money, and if you want to destroy and rob Serbia's Army, counting money from "Lutria Serbia". They didn't care about anything else at the time, it was the only job they did. Taking into account all the circumstances, what was going on, it's a good thing the Old Town municipality in Belgrade didn't split off, so today we have to sit in Zemun, Subotica, Pancheva or something else. We still have to be happy. But anyway, we, together with the President and you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will also continue to work on improving the conditions for life and the citizens of Serbia, as well as our countrymen and citizens in both Republika Srpska and Montenegro. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68259	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go, colleague Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen, since the issue of military neutrality and co-operation with the ODKB is really open in the right way, no discussion that comes into play is too high, because I can say it freely is about historical decisions that confirm that Serbia has finally defined itself to be a free, independent and independent state and to run a free and independent policy. I want to point this out, given that from the very beginning of my attempts to establish co-operation with the ODKB took part in 2010 and I have witnessed all obstacles and problems that the previous government seemed to prevent this position which Serbia now has, that it would gain observer status and establish true military neutrality. Why did the previous Strategy, although Serbia adopted a resolution on military neutrality in 2007, find no military neutrality? Why wasn't it about total defense? Why wasn't co-operation with the KDK as a means of establishing balance and true military neutrality? Because the previous government, and that's what I want to say here, has led a policy of crawling NATO accession, avoiding any way that Serbia can establish a strong army, a policy of co-operation with all military alliances, but without joining any of them in order to preserve both its political independence and independence. In all possible ways, they prevented military neutrality from being found in a strategic document, although they were bound by the decision of the National Assembly. This is the first time, and that's why this is an important document. Mr. Minister, you have spoken of the historical importance of the National Security Strategy and your assessment is quite accurate because it is a series of aspects to which this policy is confirmed. It's the first time we've talked about memory culture. For the first time in years, all important events from the glorious past are marked, but from the tragic past of our people. Here in the Strategy mentions the development of patriotism, if we want to wage a total war, if we want to develop civil defense we must have a patriotically educated population and future generations who will be aware of that responsibility. It cannot be militaryly neutral if it is not said that Serbia will rely on its own forces in its defence and, in the event of war, lead a total defence, and this is not possible without patriotic policy and promotion of patriotism. All these issues are interrelated and it is therefore important to point out this once more. Here you were talking about several threats and challenges that are important to our country and you mentioned Islamic extremism. Exactly, the importance and truthfulness of this statement in the Strategy speaks the statement by Bakir Izetbegovic and the reaction to our National Security Strategy. So, a representative of one political party in another country found it appropriate to react and condemn an important state document, and why? Because it is true, because it basically affects what is happening in the Balkans, that returnees from the wartime, the Syrian wartimes, which were in the ranks of the Islamic state, both in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija and in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, appear and pose a real threat to the Republic of Serbia. It must be found here, in this document and these threats must be responded, as you have truly said, that is what my colleague Balint Pastor pointed out here, that the threat of uncontrollable and illegal migration, of course, has been highlighted here several other important threats. Not to owe other colleagues more time, this is a document of an independent and sovereign state. Serbia has finally defined itself to be a free state through the operationalisation and implementation of these policies we will preserve our freedom, and thus also prevent our people, of course, all attempts to destroy the Serbian people in the Balkans or to reduce their importance, such as today's attempts by the anti-Serbian regime in Montenegro, where it is an attempt to steal our identity and destroy the Serbian Orthodox Church, such as the attempts by the Cypriot separatists in Kosovo. In this sense, it is important that the public of Serbia knows what kind of document they bring and what the long-term consequences are. These must be the results of both the work of the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the clear policy that Serbia is independent and sovereign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68261	Thank you, colleague Palalic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68262	Thank you. I would ask a colleague, as well as all other colleagues, since we have already discussed this, that indeed with a lot of sensitivity they use Islam in such discussions. Once again, there is no Islamic terrorism, terrorism is terrorism, no matter who makes it. These people who deal with terrorism have neither faith nor nation. It is very dangerous to identify any religion with something that has to do with violence, with any kind of negative attachment to that religious community. We can talk about terrorism, I agree that they are very dangerous people who have been to any battlefields and that they do not bring good to anyone, and the most harm they do to the Muslims themselves. So I would just ask that you do not identify Islam and Muslims with the expression of terrorism, because Islam is a religion of peaceliness, a religion that propagates, like any other God-published religion, love among the nations, among peoples, knowledge and communication. Of course, on the other hand, all this means terrorism is something that's a negative connotation. I know that there are aspirations and that the world is forced to have something to do with Muslims, but if we look at it, it's not only Muslims who have dealt with such unholy things, but also members of all other religions. It would be better to use something called religious terrorism, so in general in this context you have a connotation with everyone else, and Islam and Muslims are really clean of it and it is not good, it offends every Muslim, every believing man when Islam in any way identifies with these people who have done evil by abuse of faith, abuse of religious feelings and abuse of Muslims themselves. There are such abuses in all religions, there are such abuses in every society, and that's something for every conviction, that's something that Muslims will always condemn first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68263	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68264	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, when the floods hit Obrenovac in 2014, in addition to what is meant, it was that the first to help, members of the MUP, the Republika Srpska Army, were also Russian specialists. I, Lord of Ohio, didn't see until one month when the floods passed, to see what happened, what hit us, what hit us, and I called my O'Renaulders to ask, and they didn't bring any donations, if I'm wrong, I'm ready to apologize to everyone. Therefore, the red line exists, at least for me and the Partnership for Peace and this range of co-operation with the NATO Pact is the ceiling Serbia should allow itself. A military neutral country must not favour nor favor nor favor any military pact or military defence or whatever it was baptized or whatever it was called. They will not favour nor diminish the importance of a Chinese army that is not in defense alliances, only that there is military neutrality. I apologize, I cannot agree with you that co-operation with the NATO Pact should be stepped up, and I said the day before, that these are the occupation forces paid by multinational companies and that if not, the EU would not deny them and rules of its security force. So Europe has recognized who and what the NATO Pact is. Their strength should be respected, respected, and we need to strengthen even more, because they all know only the power of power, not the power of law. If they had kept their rights, they would never have happened in 1999, and they would never have done what they did to us and what they're doing to us today. They only know about force, which makes Serbia stronger, stronger and more powerful, it will be more respected. I have to say the next thing to an esteemed colleague, I'm very sorry if any decent Muslim feels hurt because it's said Islamic fundamentalism, terrorism, and so forth. Really, I didn't hear that an Orthodox Christian went after bombs and did damage anywhere, killed someone, made a problem. It may be painful, and I agree with you, but this is not meant to hurt any of our fellow citizens who live, who are Muslim religions, in any way. But that our desire to do so in this way and encourage them to fight against it, to fence them from those who call for Islam, is indeed something that I hope you understand and accept. I know it's not easy, I know it's not easy, but in the multinational country we live in, Serbia remains the only multiethnic community in which all nations have equal rights with the majority population, and we found that 10 days ago even national minorities, as someone likes to say, I don't like to use that term, positively discriminated against. And that's the way it's supposed to be, and that's how it's gonna stay in Serbia. But we must find together forces and you must primarily deal with those who call for Islam when they commit crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68265	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Right on line, I guess, Mr. Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68266	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't agree with my colleague if this was an actual condition. So, not just anyone, but every Muslim offends when his faith, which I repeat, has nothing to do with terrorism, violence with extremism, fundamentalism, binds itself to this term, and it's very dangerous when it's in strategic documents. On the other hand, we're trying to deal with it, but here, I'll remind you of an example that almost happened in the Republic of Serbia. In front of the church in Triestenik when those religious feelings were very harshly abused, then those songs were sung when the Chetnik throat and the Trieste of Trieste were gnawed in Pazar. Or, what was happening very often in Srebrenica and the surrounding area, to sing – “to the Sjenica new Srebrenica, Oj Pazar new Vukovar. ” So, what I'm saying is that there's a lunatic on all sides, there's abuses of faith on all sides. It's our job to fight these abuses, to fight those kinds of relationships. It was very commendable that the priest of this church in Tristenik was immediately fenced from this kind of singing, and it was truly accepted by us Muslims as positive, and therefore we are also building on every kind of terrorism, radicalism, fundamentalism, but we do not allow and will not accept that anyone binds our faith to terrorism, radicalism and extremism, especially to find it in any kind of strategic documents, especially those concerning security in the Republic of Serbia, which, as you said ourselves, we are proud of, multinational, multicultural, and where minorities have 25% in the total share of the population. You will allow, and Muslims, if we take all minorities and Albanians, Bosniaks and Roma make up a significant part of that 25%. That is why this offends, and a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we react every time and react to this kind of bad attitude towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but generally, to all Muslims in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68267	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Right on the replica of George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68268	My dear colleague, I am an atheist, by the persuasion of the communists, and it really hurts me many times here when I hear comments that someone in the name of communism has done ugly things, bad things and everything else. A lot of people who have feelings like me react the same way. I'm saying this for that reason because I can't speak as a believing man, any religion, and I respect them all, but I can't say that someone rightly doesn't say that someone in the name of communism and who called himself a communist has committed a crime. You know. When we're making distinctions, it hurts me, it hurts me more than anyone does because someone's talking about it. It's been a long time, and I can't change it, I didn't live at that time. If it was today, I'd know what to do. So I realize how painful that is, but you know, we have to make a clear difference, because what's going on in Dombas is civil war. It has nothing to do with any other kind of story. But some in the name of the faith that you mention have declared themselves and done what they do, and there is no other term that the real one can call it, however painful it is to anyone. That has to be taken care of. We must prevent that, because it is a common shame, and I accept that it is far greater harm to the people who are, and to those people who are Muslim religions, but together I must fight from it. You should be the bearers of the fight against all that. So, until feelings get a little messy, we know sometimes to keep our mouths shut. When feelings get excited, we just need to look at what's true and make it clear that what's not good is what's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68269	The word is Jahja Fehratovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68270	You know, the difference between what the communists and this did right now, because all Islamic communities and the traditional Islamic communities and all the Muslims of the world started to be fenced from what the group represents. In the beginning, they condemned it to say it did not belong to their communities and that it was not part of Islam, and Islamic Learning. Unfortunately, the communist authorities have not been engrossed by those who have done what they did in their name and what they have proved by facts and shows that they have actually committed a large number of crimes in addition to what they did, so if you want a large number of crimes against the entire population of all peoples and all religions in Yugoslavia. So the difference between these two concepts and this parallel really doesn't stand, because the Muslims in the beginning have fenced themselves from this and because this didn't come from Islam, but from those who have abused Islamic feelings and teachings, to install this, they have imputed Muslims as a burden and as an excuse for everything that followed, and what the entire Islamic world faces today, and unlike what was in communism, the communists have never fenced themselves. Never, while they were in position while they were in power, they were not fenced by all these crimes, and that is what many communists who were dissidents about that time finally testify to. I can tell you, let's say, Gilas, who in his books speak clearly about these things, although only when he went to America, etc. That's why it's very dangerous in any way to make a parallel between these two feelings or between these two things. I repeat again, Islam and Muslims are clean of anything like this and it is not good and it is not right that this is imputed to Islam and Muslims, and especially that in this country, we as Muslims, want to build on ourselves and our identity, and so it would be very and only right for this kind of term to be kicked out of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68271	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68272	Dear fellow, I sincerely believe that those who committed crimes in the name of communism have been put aside to compromise communism as an idea, and I will not agree, and you have in part confirmed that many communists have clearly distanced themselves from all this in time and in the spirit of an absolute tolerance, because I'm afraid we're already starting to go to a slightly slippery terrain that is not good. I won't comment on anything else, because I think we've said it very clearly enough and our intentions are good and honorable on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68273	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68274	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have announced in principle that we will provide strong support for the bill's proposals, primarily the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Army of Serbia, but also when it comes to the proposal for a strategy for the defence of the Republic of Serbia and highlighted all the reasons why these proposals are good, which will be benefits by adopting such proposals. We also talked about investments in the military, in a better relationship with members of the Serbian Army, in better solving the problems of members of the Serbian Army, as well as the housing needs of members of Serbia and all other things that will make us adopt the proposed solutions. However, what I would like to point out when it comes to the Defence Strategy proposal, which is the Ministers, I don't know if you noticed, yesterday is one television "N1" was in question, spreading, in the literal sense of that word, one hysteria against this defence strategy proposal and it was in the evening hours. They passed on some contributions from Sarajevo, and then we saw that there was a hysterical atmosphere at work precisely because of this document ahead of us. In fact, they have entered so deeply into the text itself that they know where Republika Srpska is mentioned, precisely on which side of this document, they say, on the fourth page, the 13th page mentions Republika Srpska. I would like precisely because of these ominous allegations of television "N1", I would like to read very briefly, as Republika Srpska is mentioned, in what context Republika Srpska is mentioned. He says: "On the security of the countries in the region, the negative impact is also being expressed by separatist aspirations, ethnic and religious tensions, the tendency to abolish the Dayton Agreement and Republika Srpska, the endangerment of the position of the Serbian people. “ This is mentioned on page four. We're going to that famous, thirteen-page document. So he says: "Preserving peace and security in the region and the world as the defence interest of the Republic of Serbia will be achieved by achieving the following objectives. “ First sentence: "Preserving Republika Srpska as an entity in BiH, and in line with the Dayton Agreement and improving the position of Serbs in the region and the world. “ So there is nothing controversial here, no matter how upset and hysterically reacted and some members of the BiH presidency, such as that of Sefik Dzaferovic, no matter how upset he was yesterday, Zeljko Komsic, also a member of the presidency, mentioning himself in this document the Republika Srpska, not entering into what context and not entering into the statement of Republika Srpska, but as an integral part of BiH in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. A whole hysteria was created, of course, by the TV "N1", in its anti-Serb activity, and passed it on yesterday in tonight's television class. I expect, given that the document also mentions the word - region, I expect similar reactions from some regional leaders. Of course, I expect similar reactions from Pristina, whether from Kurti or someone else, but they are currently busy forming a government that they probably won't even be able to form as it started. I expect similar reactions from Podgorica, too, to tell you, given the trends present these days, since Milo Djukanovic is kidnapping us from the church there, kidnapping the saintly and everything else, and since he rarely misses the opportunity to attack Serbia, at every step, on every topic, anything, Serbia is always the greater culprit when it comes to Milo Djukanovic. For all of these reasons, I have listed all of this to the Ministers, to tell you, precisely because of these hysterical statements and reactions from the region, I am convinced that this defence strategy is the best possible defence strategy for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68275	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68276	Thank you. You know, every time you do something in life, it's important to see who supports what you do, and it's important to see who opposes what you do. Who else believes in good intentions towards Serbia by representatives of Bosniak presidency members Jaferovic and Komsic? What have they shown that they care about Serbia or peace in the region? By trying, they didn't do a single thing now to help us, at least to find out who tried to kill Alexander Vukic in Srebrenica, or because Zeljko Komsic without any resistance to politics, law, constitution, anything, came out and said that he recognised Kosovo as an independent state and that it was a fact for him. I guess that says enough about their intentions and what they think of Serbia and the Serbian people. First, let me tell you that the state of Serbia, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, when the Dayton Agreement was signed, was not a witness, it was not a cook, it was not at the wedding, it was guaranteed, it signed the Dayton Agreement. When you sign something, then you guarantee the value of your signature and that you will keep and implement what you have signed. It is explicitly said -- the witnesses of the Dayton Agreement are the governments of the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Russian Federation and ahead of the EU, Felipe Gonzales. So they are witnesses, and Serbia, then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia as its legal successor and Croatia are signatories to the Dayton Agreement. We guarantee the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, and therefore for its preservation, its preservation. If that's the problem, if it bothers Serbia to keep its signature, to keep the Dayton Agreement, and therefore to keep both the Constitution and the establishment of BiH, then I wonder - what do you want to change? What's the problem? What's the matter? What is it that prevents Serbia from bothering you so much? The abolition of Republika Srpska, it is clearly said here, is not only about the abolition of Republika Srpska, but also about changing BiH's structure, which is composed of two entities and three equal peoples, no different. What else can Serbia or should it do in that case? To calmly observe how the Dayton Agreement, which she guaranteed, is being guaranteed not to see if anyone tries to abolish Republika Srpska, says Zeljko Komsic -- does not belong to Republika Srpska only to Serbs. Yes, but the entity must be preserved as it is for all those living in Republika Srpska. What can be controversial about it? You know, when interested in the position of the Croatian national minority comes from Croatia, we do not say that it is a blow and attack on Serbia, we say that it is a reasonable question, that it is a legitimate right to ask how people live, if there is anything to help them, whether they need a path, whether they need a music school, whether they need textbooks. When a question comes to us from BiH -- what is the situation of the Bosniak people in our country, does anyone see it as an attack on themselves, on Serbia, on our constitutional order, on the rule of law and law? On the contrary, we say - come, make sure, help, open a school, finance a kindergarten, give money for some time, open a factory. We never see enmity in that. And why, when Serbs say they will take care of Serbs, wherever they live and Republika Srpska, as an integral part of BiH, why is this aggression? Why is that getting mixed up in internal affairs? Why is it an attack on the integrity of any country or people? It's not and it can't be. Serbia is right, it has an obligation to take care of Serbs, no matter where they live, to help, to open a factory in Drvar, regardless of what the Federation Drvar is, because that's where Serbs live. Why don't we help them? How can we not help them? It seems that whenever Serbs speak, it is seen as a threat. Serbia will speak and speak, Serbia is upright and will stand up. They can threaten us with anything they want. We heard from Komsic that he would bring a NATO pact to our border. First of all, I don't know whose name he's talking about. Secondly, I don't understand how he can bring or take anyone, when three peoples and two entities decide in BiH? But he still threatens us like we should be afraid of the NATO Pact. What do we need to be afraid of the NATO Pact? Are we in conflict with someone? Did we do anything to challenge anyone, including the NATO Pact? Why are we being threatened? They used to threaten us with Imperial Ords, now they're threatening us with a NATO pact. In the name of whom is he speaking? I ask them from this place, gentlemen in the NATO Pact, are they consulted on this? Do they think Serbia should be threatened? Do they think they should make some kind of border between Serbs and Serbs? Who talked to them about it or does he only speak for himself? I've never heard of this as a NATO pact. You can try and threaten us with whatever you want. Serbia's position, Serbia's policy, the upright Serbia that will take care of all its countrymen, no matter where they live or about their diaspora, I mean all our citizens, will not change. You can tear me down today, the SNS can, as the biggest party of our coalition, cancel my trust and say it won't vote for me or for this strategy, can say my Socialist movement won't support me, the Serbian people can say that for seven years it's been listening to me, every day it's attacking me and the hatred that these and these people are spilling on me, so to say - I won't listen to that hate anymore, I want to replace another man. You may try to force it, but it is not exactly a man who responds to the pressures, Alexander Vukic, to disown me and to stop our coalition co-operation, but you will never be able to find a defence minister who will sign a National Security Strategy in which Serbs and their protection are not a priority, in which Republika Srpska is no longer our priority. The threshold's been crossed, the door's open. Serbs will never stop caring about the Republika Srpska and Serbs wherever they live, ever again. Neither "Storm" nor "Jasenovac" nor "Martovski pogrom" will ever be repeated again. That threshold has been crossed. There can be anyone else in my place and they don't have to make it personal at all. This policy will never change again, no one will ever be able to explain that it is possible that you will not care about Serbs in Republika Srpska, your people, ever again. Those policies of carelessness for the Serbian people have gone on forever. Be calm and reliable in BiH. By safeguarding the Dayton Agreement, Serbia is also guarding their lives, and their children. The Dayton Agreement has brought peace. Keeping the Dayton Agreement will preserve peace, and I guess that's our best interest to all of us. And don't threaten us with any pact. Don't threaten us with how you're going to, you'll soon, they say, "We'll easily change things inside of us." Don't threaten us with anything, because nobody threatens you at all. Come on, answer us who tried to kill Alexander Wolfie at Srebrenica? Come on, try to answer me what you're hurt about when we say we'll keep the constitutional structure of BiH and the Republic of Serbia in it? Does it occur to anyone that the Serbs are his remethylative factor, that he needs to get rid of them, and that Serbia says he will take care of them and keep them safe? I'm sorry this is happening in Podgorica today. It pains me that my people, the only people in Europe, must fight for their right to go to worship, to go to the church he has gone to for centuries. I'm sorry, I'm ashamed of this time and this region, that everyone is silent that the Serbian people must pray or fight, to kidnap themselves for the places where they buried their fathers and where they kept the saints who kept him, who made him just as he did. I don't know why you keep the whole of Europe quiet. I don't know why Europe, which is so sensitive to every violation of religious rights, every violation of human rights, is now silent, when it sees Serbs being deprived of their eternal rights, that places where they buried grandfathers, great-grandfathers, can suddenly cease to be their own, to become the tenants of the land they created. I am sorry and it pains me that the EU, that the OSCE, which all these powerful and large organizations that have come into the essence and respect for human rights, and even religious rights, because religion is a human right, is now so persistently silent and pretend not to see that the Serb people, the only people in Europe, must prove that there is and must show, prove that the elections for their right to have a place to pray to their God, where they baptized him, where they baptized both his father and grandfather? The only people in Europe who are in danger of losing their memory, to lose the foundation of their existence. We can't keep our mouths shut. I feel the same way the state that does this to my people, as I've experienced so far, can't. I can't accept that it's happening and that nothing changes. Things change. As you treat the Serbs with whom you live, so you treat Serbia with the end you live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68277	Thank you, Minister. The word has a People's Messenger, Muamer Zukorlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68278	I'm responding to the Bosniak representative's formulation. Dear Ministers, the use of concepts, the meaning of concepts is of paramount importance. So, I have no problem with you criticizing any Bosnian-name politician. But when you say -- the intention of Bosniak representatives -- that's not good. It's a particular arrow that applies implicitly to us here. It represents a certain message of exceptional political and public importance, especially when it comes from the position of a minister representing the government here. That's why it was my colleague Fehratovic's reaction. The use of the concept is actually the one that in some ways implies the intentions. It is the use of concepts that sends messages for future behaviors. So it would be of paramount importance to be very careful. I understand the need and I support the order of the army, strengthen the army, have a strategy, but here is the question of our orientations. Are we going to build an army as a force of strength or are we going to build an army as a normal force that will make up for certain deficiencies through soft force? And the soft force actually means what we're going to replace with a culture of politics and culture of public discourse. And that in our case, here in Serbia means whether we will worry about whether one third of citizens who do not belong to Serbian nationality in the country will accept the military as their own, in a full legal and full emotional sense, or will accept it as necessity, imposed as necessarily good or as necessary evil. That's why it's very important what terms we use. On the other hand, the signator of the Dayton Agreement does not mean a guarantee. So the side that has somehow participated in everything that happened to this agreement and of course it is legitimate and it is a signatorium and there is no dilemma, but no guarantee. That's why these things are very important to Bosnia as well as to how we profile them in the discourse. This reflects whether or not we will open a reconciliation page. In this context, it is very important to be careful in the concept of Islamic radicalism, but also in all the formulations relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68279	Thank you, Dr. Zukorlic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68280	Since the fall of JNA and the formation of our national army, there has been an expression of what has been known for centuries, which is that Serbian officers are, above all, extremely high morals, people who, as in many books and written, are simply genetically predetermined to defend their homeland and their people. Under the Yugoslav army, Serbian officers have indeed been scolded in the worst ways possible, for decades they have been denied progress in the service, and simply these mistakes from our near past must be corrected. Under this DOS mafia regime and those ministers who led the Serbian army, you mentioned that too, Mr. Minister, nothing was much better. Let's just remember how Ponoš became a general, after the chief of staff of all affairs, but what is now very important for you and for this government and for the future government and for everyone who takes care of the Serb army is to pay much more attention to the status of officers in the Serbian army. You've moved that line here in this article, and that's the second time that it's happening, probably because of the fact that we have a real problem in the Serbian Army with one piece of the excerpt of officer personnel. It cannot be in those figures and percentages how it is the enemies of the Serbian people who want to present it, but an officer who for any reason, which are of a status, dissatisfaction with a material position, left Serbia's Army is a huge damage to the state of Serbia. We Serbian radicals in our programme advocate that much more attention is given to this particular issue. This morning when we started this debate and when we pointed out that volunteers from the SRS, first of all, volunteers of past country wars played a huge role, but also Chetniks in the First World War, through four Chetnic squads, which, by then, Minister Dusan Stefanovic, through the forces they formed, directed to the front with special tasks to defend the Serbian people, we want that tradition, too, to return. It wasn't a long time ago, 100 and how many years ago, but when the Serbian Army has given so much importance in terms of much more weapons, modernization, creating better conditions, building apartments, we think it all needs a lot more and much better. (President: Thank you. I'm done, Mr. Marinkovic. Can't, Mr. Minister, an officer of any rank do some peripheral work just because in peacetime conditions that are not suitable for a Serbian officer. Take care of that and we will always stand on that side and on the professionalization of the army, so that they have absolutely the most possible wages, equipment and everything they need.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68281	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now, according to the amendment, he has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68282	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, thank you for returning, as military minister, and High Commander Aleksandar Vukic to the Serbian army the reputation she had in her tradition. Dear Minister, I will ask one question now to myself and to you – how many daily media attacks on the military and the commander-in-chief, especially his parents, affect the weakness of the defence role of the commander-in-chief? When I ask that question, then let me explain it. We, Mr. Minister, are from day to day, from hour, from minute to minute, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, witnessing false news, fiction, insult, unprecedented brutal media attacks on the Supreme Commander, President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, on his family and his parents. The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, the highlight of false news, fiction, insult and media attacks on President Aleksandr Vukic and the Supreme Commander and his parents, has been a letter sent to his parents through a daily list since 18 December 2019. Such insults, unseen insolence, lies, primitiveism of the lowest rank towards the president and his parents do not know the human mind. It's a letter from the journalist Mr. Kostic. Do you know the journalist, Mr. Kostic, that parents love each other with all their heart and that they were the support of Alexander Vukic's life, the Parliamentarian, like many other parents to their children? Just the presence of the president's parents in his life gives him strength and power. Your insults, Mr. Kostic, fall into the greatest insults of their lives. When President and Supreme Commander Vukic and his parents see that they are insulted by a journalist, even if a charlatan, with the greatest possible lies, by the inventions of the lowest rank, they cannot remain indifferent, because they were the very ones who supported Alexander in his life and gave him power and power, and you, Mr. Kostic, will remain up and empty with your insults. You, Mr. Kostic, will not be offended, for you have judged yourself and we can only mourn you. Remember, normal journalists don't insult others. It's just tiny souls doing it. You, Mr. Kostic, have shown the insults of the president and his parents how low a man can fall, how miserable and miserable things can come out of your dirty mouth and how cocky you can look on those flimsy legs of yours. Take, Mr. Kostic, this letter of many lies, immense hatred and frame it and place it on the wall of your living room, to remind themselves daily of the highest range of your journalistic charlatanism and the high range of your self-proclaimed second-Serbian elitism. You, Mr. Kostic, and those of you from the Alliance for Serbia are still in favour of unhappiness, chaos, public service, work and order. Aleksandar Vukic will continue to modernise Serbia along with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, remember well, Aleksandar Vucic is a great Serbian protégé, a great Serbian statesman, a great Serbian reformer, a great Serbian patriot and hopes for a great Serbian patriot, who will never do anything against his people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and his homeland, because that is how his parents raised him, whom you, Mr. Kostic, insult. That's why they can be happy parents and God and the state of Serbia. And you, Mr. Kostic, with your hatred, will remain a dry branch in the tree of humanity. In the end, Mr. Minister, thank you for affirming the Serbian state and the nation as well as the Serbian state and the nation, and for the Serb needing heroes and patriots and citizens of Serbia, and for the state of soldiers and hardworking workers and municipalities of decent and hardworking citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68283	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. According to the amendment, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has already been about the importance of the concepts and the discourse used in the very text of the strategies, but also in all the formulations of today's speeches. So I will repeat the importance of reshaping the idea of Islamic radicalism, primarily from principle, because the formulation of religious radicalism, in fact, would be more adequate and would include all possible types of religious radicalism that exists or will appear in some future, and would also avoid the possibility of some kind of Targetting, i.e. the Stigmatization of Muslims, and we have heard the reasoning of fellow Fehratovic and who are commonly known -- Islam as a religion in its doctrine and all its teachings has nothing to do with radical, violent ideology which, unfortunately, often produces and terrorism. This would be our recommendation precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier, which is that it is very important to formulate an army in a legal and any other respect as an institution, one of the most significant and national and state-owned institutions that all citizens will be able to experience as their own. Given all the historical experiences for non-Serb people and national communities, it is not simple at all, and therefore I would like to follow that principled discourse of opening Serbia to the environment that we have witnessed in the last few years' policy, in recent months including the idea of "small Schengen", which is kind of stepping out of the whole rhetoric that we can hear here today in the interpretations of this strategy, because surely those who do not have enough to care about whether we will use certain written texts, formulations, strategies, and special public events – are we leading Serbia in the direction of closure or opening? I'm not sure it's smart, that it's professional and politically responsible just to point out big words here about determination to be the strongest and best and that we're not afraid of anyone and that no one can do anything to us, and if we push Serbia into some kind of ring, political ring, economical and ultimately military, it can't be state policy. I know that this is not the state policy of the summit of this country, and that is why I am in partnership relations as a Justice and Reconciliation Party with the ruling majority, because I know that we have reached agreements that this country is moving in another direction, towards a future brighter than the past, with full respect for diversity and within the country, full respect for diversity in our environment, but also pragmatic policies that will respect the real effects of the power of world and regional forces, including indirect and direct threats and all that can come from it. In this regard, I think it is very important to be smart, to be sensitive to the formulations that can be used against this country. With regard to these BiH-related formulations, however, it may have this point of view that we have heard, however, any coverage of the military strategy of any issue relating to the country's internal issue is very risky, I find it even unacceptable. I don't think we're thinking about anything that might be a reaction. It is the legalisation of the right for all neighbouring countries to take advantage of it, so that in their military strategies they treat some internal issues of the Serbian state, which will certainly not benefit the country's national and national security and future. That's what we need to pay attention to, and to fully illustrate what's going to happen to us. This text, if not already, will be presented in Brussels as a threat to BiH, will use it to speed up your entry into the NATO Pact of BiH because it will say – see, they have plans in their military strategy regarding the internal issues of BiH. It could've all been said in other formulas. Language is a miracle. The language is the strongest weapon of smart people, and I suggest that the effects of what is the country's military interest are achieved in line with international principles and ethical principles, but that words are chosen that will not leave room for someone to use for negative interpretation that can be harmful to this country, but also for regional security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68285	Thank you, Dr. Zukorlic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68286	I read what is written in Sarajevo, listen to what is said, but I cannot hear what we are threatening, what is a threat and what is said otherwise – to preserve Republika Srpska within BiH. How else can I say that I care about Republika Srpska than as part of a constitutional system that makes BiH based on the Dayton Agreement, whose Serbia is a signator. What could be the threat? Who are we threatening? That's where the Serbs live, there's a large number of them. We are obliged and responsible to take care of them and as the country that signed them, and wherever the signature is, I suppose you guarantee for what you signed, to make sure that nothing changes, that nothing without the consent of two entities and three peoples can happen. Why would it bother anyone? He can't bother. The mention of the Serb people is not aggression. It's not the Serbian people an ugly word. We're used to maybe from back then that we've always had to make a catcher, so when fat pop happens then we have to find Serbian liberals, and then we always have to say -- nationalisms, not nationalism, but nationalism. We've always had to even things out. There's nothing to even about. There is no Dayton Agreement in the Republic of Serbia that has made the Republic of Serbia, there are no countries that guarantee its constitutional system, there is no one on the side who can say anything about its system. No one's wondering about that. Also, there are two autonomous provinces in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not three, four, five, but two. Republika Srpska cannot compare with any element within the Republic of Serbia because it does not have the same authority, it is not created in the same way, it does not have the same constitutional and legal being, we cannot compare it. Care for any people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia was never considered an aggression, ever. I will be truly happy if from BiH, from the Federation, politicians come to say – we will create school, kindergarten, bridge, road, we will hire people. Great, no offense, but why is there a question of aggression if the Republic of Serbia says so – we will preserve Republika Srpska in its full Dayton capacity and we will take care of Serbs wherever they live? There can't be a threat to that. There's no threat to that. We may have gotten used to Serbs talking about Serbs, using the term, using the name of their people. There's nothing wrong. On the contrary, the safe and stable Republika Srpska is the strongest guarantee of BiH's existence. If Republika Srpska is not sure that BiH will be safe, if the citizens of Republika Srpska are not satisfied with their position, with their lives, that BiH will be satisfied, it is half its territory. The Republic of Serbia doesn't regulate anyone's life just as the citizens of BiH have arranged their lives through the Dayton Agreement, we're just asking that this agreement is respected and nothing more and we have the right, as a mother country, to take care of every member, no matter where he lives, to safeguard his human, national, religious rights to help him develop economically, so I guess it's Serbia's right to decide what to do with his money. I guess it's Serbia's right to open a factory in Drava if it wants to. It can open somewhere else, but there, it can open there, and there can be nothing wrong with that. No, no aggression. Let's never view Serbia and the Serbian people as a people aggressor of regression, it's gone. As for armies and relations with Bosniaks, that is, relations with members of the Islamic Faith Army, every right is guaranteed. No less, no more than Orthodox Catholics and Protestants, and when it comes to respect for customs, respect for religion, the rooms where faith is confessed, the people who help it, I mean the imam. A few months ago, Major Jusuf Spasic attended a gathering, a world gathering of imams, military imams, and the Serbian Army sent him here. Before, you will know exactly when, I have at our garrison in Novi Pazar he went to The Hague in Mecca about the cost of the Serbian Army, without any possibility of denying it to anyone, as Orthodox priests, military priests go on a gift trip to Hilandar or Jerusalem. It's completely natural and completely normal. That's what's up to us, that's what we can do to make everyone feel good in our army. We have officers of Islamic religion, you think I'm asking them about it, it's their right, they have the right to confess their faith, and it's up to me not to endanger them in any way their human and religious right, and it's up to them to serve the army and to serve the calls they chose, as well as anyone else. No, there is no discrimination in the Serbian Army about it we take great care of it and take great care of it, and in other things it is not in the essence of the Serb army, it is not, and we don't even have to do much, there is no such emotion, there is never and never was that need. When it comes to relations with BiH, so wait, there has been anyone who has confirmed BiH's sovereignty and territorial integrity more times than Alexander Vukic and this government and this Assembly. Well, when you heard any government official of the Republic of Serbia say -- I recognise Republika Srpska as an independent state, and you hear Zeljko Komsic who says he recognises Kosovo as an independent state. I'm not talking to you, we're just talking, and I don't think you're a defense attorney and a representative of the Federation government. No, you are the first citizen of the Republic of Serbia, MP, citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So that's what I'm saying. So we've heard that, we often hear that. You know, imagine, for example, President Aleksandar Vukic came out and said that in Croatia he would make another territorial division, as Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic said, which she said - we will defend the rights of Croats in Serbia and Vojvodina. Oh, is that two states? And, nothing. We haven't made a case out of it, we haven't broken diplomatic relations, and here it is forbidden for sovereign Serbia to just say one very simple thing – we will keep Serbs wherever they live. What's wrong with that? There's nothing wrong with that. If and who cares about respecting territorial integrity, the constitutional order of their neighbours, it is Serbia. You've never heard any such statement from any of the officials of the Republic of Serbia, ever. And a little, a little bit, you hear from other states that say that. I will repeat it a hundred times, and I will not forget it, Zeljko Komsic says -- for me, Kosovo is an independent state, although it has not yet been recognised, but it is waiting for us. Oh, yeah, in the name of who are you talking to? Well, it's a violation of the Dayton Agreement, so it's a violation of two entities and three peoples, a common agreement and a deal. When you say it'll cause a NATO pact, what are you arguing us with the NATO Pact? I'm not fighting with the NATO Pact. Should the NATO Pact defend the Republic of Serbia from me, BiH should defend from me? Well, you don't have to, and you won't. You're welcome. Don't threaten NATO with a pact. Let's wait for the reaction of that NATO pact. Now, don't let anyone here report from MPs who have, say, good relations with the ODKB and say, "I'll bring you the ODKB." No one will bring in the NATO Pact or the ODBK, they won't. Especially not in BiH. Let BiH decide what you see, what it wants. Nowhere in our strategy does it say that BiH does not become a NATO pact member or any other alliance. Have a good trip, however they decide, two entities and three peoples. We didn't say the word, we don't care. We do not prevent anyone from doing whatever they want in their country, but you cannot expect us to pretend that Serbs do not exist, that Republika Srpska does not exist and that we do not exercise our right. Who signed the special parallels? How do we now have some special connections, officially, on paper specified in relations with Serbs living in BiH? How did that turn out? Well, here, we're just doing them, nothing more. We just say once more we'll keep them safe and keep them safe. As we guard every carrier of the Serbian State passport. I have had the sincerest pleasure and honor, if they are watching this, let them know that I am thinking of them, that I am still grateful to them, that I welcome them very much and that I look forward to our reunion, I have had the great honor of meeting several citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Bosniak nationality in Sochi, where they hold big powerful construction firms and love their Serbia very much. I was so proud to talk to them, to spend that night with them. Here and now I welcome them and thank them very much for their hospitality. I take care of them, my strategy says diaspora and Serbs. I take care of them, and I take great care of them what happens to them and wherever they happen. So don't take us into such a narrow frame. Of course we have the priority, Republika Srpska and of course we have the priority of Serbs, the most of them are, the most of us are and it's logical and natural, but it's not a threat to anyone. No one. When you heard from someone in Serbia that they were angry with Orban for saying that about Hungarians, a country of NATO pact. Never. What's the problem? Well, of course he'll take care of the Hungarians, why not take care of the Hungarians? And fortunately for him, there is a Serbia that cares even more about the Hungarians than it can or must care for Hungary. Let everyone take care of their citizens and Serbian nationality beyond Serbia's borders, there will be no problems. I say, I see neither the dispute nor the conflict, really and thank you for discussing it, thank you for being in our Parliament, your Parliament, thank you for speaking in front of your voters, thank you for speaking in front of Serbian citizens, because you are the first citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and everything else is something that I am less interested in, thank you for all of this and I do not see the dispute. I understand your concern, I can accept it, but I can't accept that this strategy in any way, any well-intentioned one can scare, upset, and especially not argue, and it can certainly calm and encourage Serbs to live where they live, because they know that Serbia cares about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68287	Right on line, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68288	This formulation, when heard from the position of civil policy in the context of international relations and in any other context, would not be problematic. But when it is found in a military document and you say -- we will protect Republika Srpska, as an army, it actually means that an evaluation by the military, that some political act in a partial or other sense is in danger of Republika Srpska in BiH, the army of the Republic of Serbia will enter BiH to guard Republika Srpska. Is that my translation? Please explain those formulations to me. I think what caused these implications actually goes in the direction of this understanding of this formulation. That's why I don't point out the problem essentially, but I'm potentiating it in terms of how we formulate something and how it has an echo. You have used the logic of reciprocity several times in various ways, even mentioning that unfortunate Major Jusuf Spahić, who actually illustrates that this country, or not the country, but the government of this country 12 years ago, was incorrect to Muslims and had some of its own mufti, its majors, its walks and those not delegated and recognised by the majority legitimate and legal Islamic community. Then we got, after 12 years, reciprocal behaviour in Montenegro, which we now don't understand and scream and cry out, and we ask for the world to come out, because there's something wrong with the SPC, and we've been silent and still silent about what happened unfairly to the Islamic community in 2007 when, with the help of the police, we've been robbed of the mosque, we've been imposed on the Mufti quacks and the established parallel community. It is my cry, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, of Bosniaks, but a friend of this country, a country for which I want it to be my country in full capacity and to protect my emotions and rights, but also with the sense of my people's majority in Bosnia and the country of origin in national terms, I want us to find formulations, to open the future of reconciliation, and if we choose words then we can. And if we have a single cantar on which we measure principles and values. Then we'll move in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68289	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68290	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I can only tell you one big bravo for the explanation you've given. I am convinced that there is absolutely no reason to worry about anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter what entity, what people or what religion they belong to. Since there is no cause for concern, there is no cause for concern for any neighbouring country or country in the nearer and further environment. Because, just these strategies, the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategy of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, complete our environment, the region, everyone, the whole world, we wanted to show our peacefulness, our peaceful policy, our desire for all conflicts and open issues to be resolved peacefully, but at the same time our resolve and firmness to not allow anyone to touch anyone in the national interests of the Republic of Serbia and to touch anyone in Republika Srpska, as a guarantor of the Dayton Agreement. So much for that. I am extremely pleased when someone who proposes the law comes to the National Assembly and brings us such a good bill, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Mr. General and gentlemen officers, such a good bill that we simply and have nothing to talk about, and then we have the opportunity to hear great lessons from our good historical acquaintances, Dr. Vojislav Seselj and even better knowledge of history, my colleague Aleksandr Martinovic, we have the opportunity to discuss other topics too, because there are almost no objections to this proposal for a law on Serbia's Army. So, good law, no many objections, no amendments, i.e. There are amendments, but they don't really change anything, there's not much to discuss. When we have a smaller army, a weaker army, then we need a lot less human resources. It takes a smaller number of personnel, a smaller number of officers, a subofficer, a smaller number of rank, a faster transition of their careers, etc. When we have a larger and stronger army, the need for more people arises. We need more quality and professional personnel, more officers and officers, more rank, in order for the passing to be a little slower, we need between them and a stricter selection because of the more regular staff policy needed to lead in the military. Modernizing, introducing new weapons and equipment, military neutrality, relying on the own force it requires, returning once-discharged units, such as 63nd and 72nd brigades, various organizational changes that we have made and formal changes, all of this includes some changes in the Army Act. That's why it takes these changes, too, i.e. Introducing again, returning in fact the rank of captain of the first class to officer rank, i.e. Lieutenant of the battleship also in the officer's rank in the river units, as well as in the sub-offices of first-class sergeants. I remember when in 2005, in 2006, a reduction in the number of Serbia Army states was made, remember who was in power at the time, I think a lot of things were done back then, i.e. It's upside down. Retirement and retraining of the active military team has been carried out with the help of donations from abroad. We're officers back then, and I was an officer, telling each other that what NATO couldn't do with a weapon, he did with money. Various formational and organisational changes have been made in order to reduce the number of units, shut down the entire units, close the barracks, abolish the i.e. Shut down units and commands, destroying and selling weapons, abolishing the regular military deadline and introducing a professional one. It may not all have been done with evil intent, but the idea of whoever initiated it, I do not believe that it was entirely well-intentioned towards the Serbian Army and the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, we now have a different political leadership led by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. Fortunately, we now have a stronger economy, a stronger economy also thanks to him and the SNS. Fortunately, we can now consider changes in the army, which will lead to better, not worse. So it's a good thing we're reintroducing the rank of first-class captain, i.e. Lieutenant of the battleship and the second-in-command of first-class sergeants, and that in a public that doesn't have to be completely professional and directed, there would be no misunderstandings and misunderstandings, here again I will repeat what that means. Everyone knows that there are officer acts - lieutenant, lieutenant, captain, now and captain of first class, major, colonel, colonel, and those general - Brigadier General, General Major, Lieutenant General and General General. The officers in the river units have similar rank, adequate. They've got an act of a lieutenant who's also an undersigned here, and now they've got the rank of Lieutenant Corvette, who's actually a lieutenant in the Land Army, i.e. in other respects, the Air Force and the Air Defense. Lieutenant frigate is the captain, the captain of the battleship is the captain of the first class, the captain of the corvette is the major, the captain of the frigate is the colonel, the captain of the battleship is the colonel, the commodore is the Brigadier General, the anti-Admiral is the general's colonel, and the admiral is the same as the general. This was clean because of the general public who doesn't have to be that professional and that he knows everything, but since we are a nation that is very attached to the military, and I believe that a huge part of the population knows this, well, better than I do. Finally, I would like to once again praise the bill, as regards the second amendment itself, I think it is as unnecessary as the first one and that it should not be accepted, because we have increased the age line and introduced the possibility that as many people as possible will be admitted into the army of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68291	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, gentlemen officers, dear colleagues. After everything the minister has been telling us in the Assembly these days, it may be a discussion further, including my discussion almost unnecessary, but I need to say that the political vision of this government, the state of Serbia that primarily prevents political adventurers, both those in Pristina and those in the environment with decadent views, as well as these destroyers, inducers and half-trons from Belgrade, above all, the growth of its own economy, technological development and the strengthening of defence power. It's an axiom in the national and state strategies both of the presidents of the state and of this government. The hand provided is style and these strategies, but provided by the hand of friendship, not cheeks for slapping. The guarantee of Serbia's democratic construction is its, above all, defence power and willingness to preserve its neutrality. That's why we need defense power. The right to self-defense is the source of freedom of thought and the measure of dignity of the existence of every human being and every free nation. The defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia is so important and binding an act that is a guarantee of survival and progress. We were in the years when the question was raised and today some ask whether we need so much investment in defense, if we have an enemy, and whether we should have a strong army on our own national needs at all? I will only add one more argument to what has already been said in the principle debate and arguments that have been made, almost all MPs about the need for our military to develop. Ten years ago, one of the world's largest oil companies, Canadian-American oil company Bankers Petroleum, bought full production and, of course, the entire oil market of Albania. By doing so, Bankers Petroleum has taken over the Kosovo market, parts of Northern Macedonia and parts of Montenegro. The prize question is – who is headed by “Bankers Petroleum”? I suppose many, especially officers, are also known to those who deal with the security of this country, a well-known fan of the Serb people, once General Wesley Clark. I don't know, gentlemen, you'll know if the more dangerous position of the commander of one part of the armed forces or the commander of complete energy, in this case, is almost the entire Western Balkans? Since we know what they're willing to do when it comes to oil, and we see it in Syria and Iraq and other parts of it. If anything else we need to know that those who have destroyed this country still have extraordinary positions in the world, and what their intentions will be about it we have to worry about and we always have to think about it. Although we want to survive as a people and states, we must cultivate and perfect our power of defence and self-defense as a guarantee of dignity and, above all, responsibility for future generations to come. Thank you for this strategy, we will support it with our hearts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68293	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68294	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected officers, you can't arm a soldier for much longer and buy as many weapons as those of the former regime's party have melted, melted, sold, disarmed. From a military neutral country, they built a military neutralized country. From a well-armed army, they made a well-armed army. Hunting society, a particular hunting society, for example, Belgrade, was a greater armed force than our entire army. Out of a hundred and a few thousand soldiers and 400,000 reservers, as far as I know, they've made so many soldiers that we couldn't even fill the JNA stadium. That's what he says about them. Here's a criticism of the strategy of former Minister Sutanovac, the one that jumped on the aircraft carrier Enterprise. That aircraft carrier seems to have worn more Shooter than planes. I hear that after that because of his weight of money, they have to tear it apart, I think they've torn it all apart, not just on a remont, I don't think that carrier of the plane exists anymore. In his day, only that he remained military, and I didn't even see the Army, I'd seen the Minister of Military, like that, building real estate, etc. They helped Ponos, Jeremic, Tadic, as it was called. For example, Jeremic goes to America and says -- we retired all the officers with war tradition, we cross, in front of NATO officers American, retired officers, we, who was with him, this one, as he calls himself, the one who goes through Belgrade, Nikola Jovanovic, yes, he says -- we retired all the officers with the war past, and they think it's something good, and they applaud him, we move on to the civilian army, here's the evidence, I'm saying, serving a civilian deadline with Boris Tadic in the cabinet. Such an army they imagined, an army of chefs, maids, etc. They didn't care about guns. They liquidated two guards, I guess it was a threat to them, because they're drug dealers, and as far as I know by the testimony of an officer, drug dealers have some kind of pike there today, and they're talking about some John Doe that they've arrested everyone. They had a peck out there somewhere in the military warehouse. I'll tell the exact anecdote. Be careful, the anecdote is true. He says this, in 1999, in a heroic battle in Kosharam a soldier of Hungarian nationality, his name was Tibor Cerna. His last words were worth dying for. Otherwise, in war, in peace, what I would like, sons bury their fathers, and in war fathers usually bury their sons. That's what happened to the Cern family, from Kovac. His last words were worth dying for. At the same time, Sergey Trifunovic cries on all ministries and flees to the aggressor side. Dusan Teodorovic flees from the BU department, from college, refuses to teach and flee to the aggressor side. The wolf descendant of the famous Murat age of Pozderco, oil fugitives to Great Britain, Father Misko, director of Jugopetrol, believes it is better not to smell gunpowder, to put him away for studies in England. Dragan Gilas, let's guess where he was. He did not enter Prague to target the NATO Pact, he went to Prague instead of Prague, he went to Prague to take care of his firm and to earn the 74,000 euros, so now that soldiers like Tibor Cerna have died, he came and gained 619m euros. So they were their heroes. And you're wondering why their hero today is that Obradovic spy. And what did you expect from spies, deserters? What did you expect from those who escaped from this country during NATO aggression, then returned, basically robbed, only one of them 619 million euros, what did you expect of such a hero to be their spy? Only spies and escapes, only them can Obradovic be a spy. They promised the Americans that they would disarm this country, they sold 10,000 Arrows-2M, as far as I know, per 100 euros or 100 marks, I'm not so sure about the price, they've thoroughly disarmed this army, they've cut it down. It was a plan and they've done more damage to the military and this country than NATO pact for 78 days of bombing. If the NATO Pact destroyed several tanks and several transporters, these destroyed hundreds, so from a thousand, I don't know how many we have left, I think it's only about 200 tanks, etc., of thousands of tanks and armored vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a strategy and I would like our supreme skill to be--to win, Sun Cu, to defeat the enemy without the use of force. I'd like love to be circled around us, that our neighbors, with whom we fought several times, to create a common state, winners and defeated, I'd like them to show the same respect, the same love for us, as we do for them. We have no offensive intentions, no matter what messages come from countries in the environment. These are our eternal friends. And Kennedy said, unfortunately, the sad fact is, only ready for war can we preserve peace. So that's Kennedy's saying. For those who boycott the work of the National Assembly, they would probably like to hear that kind of saying. I'm afraid only by peaceful means, what Sun Cu says, we can't keep peace unless we get ready and arm ourselves, we're not ready for, God forbid, some new war. Dobrica Ćosic says that Balkan change is of the world and that large accounts, small bills, often pay with the skin of small Balkan peoples, and most often that skin is Serbian skin. And that's why we have to be prepared for war, to preserve peace. So we need to have a strong, powerful army, primarily well-armed, technically equipped, let the technique cost as much as it costs, because life is far more expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68295	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68296	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard that now in the Strategy there is a concern for all Serbs, wherever they live, and I will remind you of something I said from the principle debate, and what else do we have no answer for, is when will the Republic of Serbia recognise the wartime internship of Republika Srpska fighters? Do you support this feeling that when they fought for the Serbian thing, that they lost and were accidentally exiled, they came to Serbia with their heads no matter what, because they had betrayed them and convinced them that they would help them in the absence of time? Today, these people, not today, but since 1995, have had difficulties in exercising their rights, we see that even today some of them live in collective centres and in these asbestos settlements, and we see no suggestions to resolve this issue. We have seen many times strategies, thinking, opinions from the EU, from Brussels, from some other centres, regarding the issue of migrants, how much is this government, although it is rising from the fifth vessels to explain that Serbia will not eventually be parking for migrants, but as much as it has done for these migrants, that we are not talking now and looking through the fingers for some things, and for the question of recognising the war effort of Republika Srpska's fighters, nothing has been done. We have testified that since 2000, the government in Serbia under the DOS has been ashamed and Serbian roles in all these wars, said and thought Serbs were guilty of these wars and were ashamed of our armies. That's what we can say has changed. Serbia is no longer ashamed of the army, but that is why we must help those who once fought outside the Serbian borders for the Serbian thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68297	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68298	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also had a chance in the principle debate, here today in the debate in particular, to hear a lot of details about the law. We had the opportunity to hear more about the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy. It is doubtless a well thought out, comprehensive document that has great significance for our defense system. The documents clearly define the objectives, which are not only about security and defence issues, but also about economic development, environmental protection, but what is most important is that in an unequivocal way it is defined to preserve independence, sovereignty and military neutrality, and this shows us what we can expect in the coming period, which the government will work on, but also of great importance is all for the country, in which we will lead the army. I'd like to point out some positive things, but I'd like to inform you about some of the things that are related to the town of Nis, from which I come. First of all, I would like to highlight the importance of building apartments for security forces, not only in Nis, but in seven cities in Serbia -- Vranja, Kralje, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica. It's a total of eight thousand apartments from the state's housing programme. As you know, the construction of apartments in Nis and Vranj began at the beginning of this year. The value of apartments is measured by hundreds of millions of euros, and will be able to be bought by both fighters and families of fallen fighters, military people with disabilities and peacetime military people with disabilities. 2,400 apartments for security forces will be built in Nis, in the village of Stevan Sidelic, where a science and technology park is being built, whose opening is expected. The city has made a commitment to build a municipal infrastructure, so a water and sewerage network, a hot water network, a traffic station, and so on. The plot is located two, three kilometers from the city center, so in that sense it is a good choice where these apartments will be built. I'd like to point out that this part of Nis was bombed in 1999, ground-based maltenes. As a result, some previous procedures had to be carried out, the process was to verify whether any unexploded missiles were on the plot. There's even been an explosion. I'm very sorry that some workers were injured at the time, but these are all the challenges we face in the realization of major planned projects. What I wanted to remind you of is how the people of Nis came through whose houses were torn down, though, as they were. First of all, it depended on whether or not people supported the Dossage Authority. Those who supported the Dossage Authority they got new floors of houses, new apartments, and these others got nothing. From 1997 to 2000, the mayor of Nis was Zoran Zivkovic, and from 2000 to 2004 was Goran Ćirić and I highlight it as the difference between the dossal authority and between DS and SNS, because then you had to be in the DS, to get any help from the city or from the state if your house was destroyed in the bombing. The Democratic Party then managed exclusively the interests of its members, and now the SNS shows that apartments can be built for security forces and for all people, regardless of party commitment. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because my house in Nis where I live is in the neighborhood and very close to that plot where these apartments are built and I have a personal experience. I wasn't a member of the DS then and I was never a member of the DS. The only party I've been to, the one I'm in, and the one I'm gonna be in is the SNS. And my house was down 82% back then. They found it, but they didn't give us any help just because we weren't members of the DS. I wish, Minister, to take the opportunity to tell you that the citizens whose houses were killed in the bombing were at my reception of citizens and they claimed then that they had data to confirm that some persons were then given apartments in an illegal manner. Now these apartments betray, their houses have been repaired and, in fact, some people who were killed in the bombing have now two properties or more properties, and many people, on the other hand, still haven't managed to rebuild their homes. I ask you on behalf of these people that, if you are in a position to question these allegations, to question them, because there is still a question as to why some Nisa citizens were discriminated during that period and whether there is a possibility of correcting a mistake and helping these people in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68299	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68300	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable colleagues, I would like, above all, to you and your associates and, of course, to thank the President for one continuity, which is when it comes to keeping the FAP and bringing the FAP closer to the dedicated industry, where this year alone, we have signed contracts worth 780 million dinars, where we are developing new programmes and we are particularly pleased that the FAP is remounting BOV, a combat armored vehicle, in this case with highly sophisticated technology, which is one task at a much higher level for “FAP”, for great workers who, according to estimates, have recently been in Priboy with their team, fulfilled. It's something that gives us a special hope for a better tomorrow, as far as the Pryboy municipality is concerned. What we are also very looking forward to is the initiative of the president of Serbia and you to form a mountain-mountan battalion in Priboj. It's of great importance to us. That army won't be against anyone. It will be for us, for our economy, to remain young Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Zlatiborci, as well as our boys and girls from Rudog, from Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina who have dual citizenship. I hope they have conditions, too. So, about 500 of these young people will have a chance to serve our army, be active soldiers, and thanks to the military's progress, and this could not have happened without economic development, where the military through the Purpose Industry and through all its activities has contributed significantly to development, it could not have been achieved. Now they will be you, when I hope, as soon as possible, realizes this project that will protect us, but also protect our economy, preserve both our future and our family and stay where they are, to live to the pride of all of us. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68301	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68302	In line with President Vukic's orders, as commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, the Serbian Army has come up with a plan to form new units, including units in Priboj, Loznica and Kursumlia. They have, of course, their tactical role, they have their own strategic meaning, but they are certainly there to help the citizens of these municipalities, these local self-governments we talked about have another reason, another chance to stay in their midst, to live politely, to work. You know, from these backgrounds, a lot of soldiers went to other cities, a lot of officers went to other cities, and now, as soon as they heard of it, they expressed their desire to return to their environments, to live where they were born again, and to do the work they love. Of course, all citizens of Serbia will certainly be much safer and safer when they have one more unit. Commander-in-chief Aleksandar Vukic thought about when he spoke with the military top, when we came to these solutions. We show once again that where the army is, there is peace and security, but that every investment in the Serbian Army is actually an investment in the standard of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68303	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68304	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, respected MPs, the army is a tradition that is in the Serbian spirit. It was an honor to be a soldier and defend your country. Those who tried to destroy and break the military tradition that has been being nurtured and maintained for centuries were the government until 2012. The situation in the military until 2012 was catastrophic. The state was in front of bankruptcy. The then government of the army was unable to provide the basic funds. The military's plan to collapse, stop investing in military equipment and training, were part of the country's defence power collapse process. Significant correct and usable means of combat are often spent. Serbia is a different country today. A series of measures make intense efforts to ensure that members of the army have good working conditions and a better life. Thanks to the government of Serbia's policy with President Aleksandar Vukic today, we have excellent results, especially when it comes to macroeconomic stability, public finances. We've managed to get a surplus in our budget for the last few years. From the above, we have more opportunities today. Today, we have bigger divisions for the army. Today our army is well equipped again. Better weapons were purchased. We've got new planes, helicopters. It's the latest and most modern technology we can be proud of. The dedicated military industry, whose exports from year to year, is also recovering. So trust has been restored in our soldier and our army. As the country's defence carrier, the Serbian military will continue to develop and improve its capabilities and to protect the country's defence interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68305	Thank you. Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break by 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time at 1600 to 19.00, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked: the presentation of a MP who asks a question cannot last longer than three minutes; after having answered the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a period of no more than three minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68307	Thank you very much. Honorable present, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, my key question concerns the fight against organised crime in the Sandzak area. It is known that very significant results have been achieved in the area of Belgrade, as well as in various other centres where we had previously organised criminal groups. However, in the Sandzak area, with less intervention or action so far, we still have very influential criminal groups that, unfortunately, resist all the commonly known principled interventions and actions. We have many examples that you could read about in the media. The Tutina case, the freshest one, is that we had the burning car of the director of the nursing home, Mr. Djondic, the truth, and the quick reaction of the resolute minister who immediately, after a few days, visited Tutin, gave support. So something that is unimaginable for the 21st century, for a modern and modern state. So, the second time, a car is blown up by one of the directors of an institution that, by its nature, does not represent an important institution of some great authority, but actually represents the only institution that is not in the hands of the ruling oligarchy of the SDA Suleiman Ugljanin, which, as well as the town of Sjenica, has held for decades as one of its hostages, therefore, a sort of zone of twilight. So it's not just that. We have an even bigger problem, and these are accumulated criminal charges against the authorities in the municipality, which in the thick line with certain corrupt prosecutors and corrupt judges manage to cover it up, to keep it from being prosecuted further. Therefore, this issue is so important and large that we cannot leave it only to the local police, not just to one ministry. It is necessary here to raise all the competent state authorities that have something to do with this subject, because I'm afraid that things are getting out of hand and that we can get to a certain point where, after that, they won't be able to react more seriously. I particularly point to the fact that it is cities, areas and municipalities where we have a border line with Montenegro, with BiH. We have, therefore, all that is happening with Kosovo and where, in fact, all these kind of neural points criminals use best, and so I would like to hear the answers – what is our plan to deal with organised crime in the Sandzak area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68308	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68309	Thank you. I want to apologize to the honourable MPs for being late, as a result of the meeting and the connection to the 2025 "Serbia" investment plan that the president and I, with the whole team, will present on Saturday. I heard part of your question. My colleagues gave me the second part. In any case, it seems to me that the fight against organised crime and corruption in Serbia has never been stronger. They have also never been stronger in the capacity of the MUP and all other relevant resolution institutions. We have done this in a number of ways, and certainly most of all through improving the position of the MUP members themselves, increasing the average salary of the MUP police, but also other services, such as fire departments, slightly above 50%, new equipment, from uniforms, to cars, to radio stations, radio links for the sake of their safety, until today we really have... I'm sorry, and now I'm going to ask my colleagues from the MUP to send me the exact figures on the crime rate in the Republic of Serbia, which I don't think has ever been lower. As far as the Tutina itself is concerned, if I am not mistaken, the Sandzak or the Raška area, then we view it the same way as organised crime or any crime on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I believe the M.O.P. is working on it. I believe they have all the information they need. If there is anything you can specifically point out to us, I will ask you to contact the Government, or Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Mr Stefanovic, and we will work on it together. Any assistance and support in this regard is welcome because our goal is to work in the interests of citizens and that organised crime, corruption, be reduced to a minimum possible extent. I'll ask them to send me specific information now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68310	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68311	You didn't actually hear me at first. I have also pointed out that certain shifts have been made at the level of the entire state and that is commendable and that gives me some hope that there is a will and that it is nothing different in terms of attitude towards that part of the state. But I'm just as someone who's been a witness for years and who knows and threatens these processes very well, simple and medically logically, if you have some disease more significantly piled up in some space, then you need additional measures, especially if you have and, let me say, some doctors viral, in this case certain state officials in the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. We have this condition, and we have some indicators that are actually worrying. You know we've already had one here and asked a question about that threatening bullet that came back to the president of the Meshihat Islamic Community in Serbia, Dr Mevlud Dudic, which is quite clear that it was a certain threat. We still don't have any feedback and investigations on it. Let's just say, you could have seen what happened to the scheduled mass fights at schools in Novi Pazar. New Market again. I must confess, in addition to living there, that I am like every parent concerned about my children, as a folk MP for every child, those who expect us to represent them here, but also I feel very ugly that from my end of Sandzak, from New Pazar, the most often come such news and such images, because this people, this society, these people with their culture and humanity don't deserve it. They do not really belong to such a world, but when, in some ways, because of certain sociological and historical, and perhaps economic and even some political circumstances, certain negative forces, in this case these criminal ones, are so strengthened, they are however small environments, where they know exactly who certain police officials, who they ride with, who they celebrate birthdays with, who they are, with whom they are, in fact, things that, in fact, send a message where citizens say -- wait, where this ship is going. Of course, I absolutely have no doubt that the state authorities have the capacity and I know that there are a lot of problems that the state is dealing with, but I want these issues, organised crime issues, child safety issues, the question of the safety of all people, to be one of the top-secret issues. It happens to us that in certain local environments, and even some parties are partying here in the ruling majority because of some local interests, you will remain silent to your coalition partners, Ugljanin and others, various other illegal actions and behaviours that are harmful to all. I'd like to make an alliance against organized crime, I'm talking about Sandzak space right now, but it can be about all the other parts, because I think we need it now. I'm afraid they're crossing the red line of some phenomena, and I've mentioned some of the examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68312	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want to respond? No, I don't. ) Comrade Zukorlic, would you like to make your comment for two minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68313	I know that fighting organised crime is one of the questions that is very inspiring on the one hand to speak in principle, and on the other hand, it is difficult to give concrete answers. I also understand the government's members that it is not possible to have concrete answers at the moment on the question of a bullet that I'm referring to, in particular, the prosecution and the judiciary, even if we don't have a real minister here today, and I expect to get the answers later. But what I'm interested in is actually that we're getting a permanent attitude and that's what the citizens want. The accumulated problems for decades are something that can't be solved so quickly, but in a moral-psychological sense, it's extremely important to show that there are none among us that will be tolerated by these phenomena. That's why I'm actually a certain subject, and I've been able to potentiate multiple times, because sometimes if citizens are faced with certain social problems – poverty, problems with school, problems with bad pathways, problems with late construction of the promised road to Tutin, etc., objective problems can happen, it's understandable, but it's very important to give people hope. So I want simple support in this sense, as I want to get support, and I want to give such support that we simply permanently give our clear, bold discourses to the people, that they, although we expect them to be something patient, but to be sure that at the end of that dark tunnel, at the end of these obstructions that we have in the construction of the road to Tutin, in building everything that awaits us and that the question of not opening the factory is not a question that is, in some way, tending. This is what I am interested in, and in this regard I am deeply concerned with the government’s answers, simply to give hope to people that after patience they will still welcome what they deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68314	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for the Prime Minister and the Minister – what do they think they are doing about the extremist activities expressed by the Alliance for Serbia? I'll give you an example of the spy Obradovic. So, in 1999, while some young men were killed in Kosharam, and I already cited Tibora Cern, a Hungarian soldier who died defending Serbia and his last words were worth dying for, at the same time, Dragan Gilas was not on a military armored vehicle called "Prague", but was in Prague. He raised his firm with a desire to earn 74 000 euros in the Czech Republic. Bosko Obradovic was busy in Belgrade to launch the Dveri list. Sergey Trifunovic cried from minister to minister until he fled to America on the aggressor side. Dusan Teodorovic left the university and fled to the aggressor side of the United States. Wolf Jeremic, his father put him away in London so the kid wouldn't smell gunpowder on some oil track. That's the so-called. The Patriotic Line of the Alliance for Serbia. No wonder those hero escapees took Mr. Obradovic from "Krusik" whom Mom hired, and when Mom left the director's post, he collected documentation for five years, handed over to Bulgarian journalists, and thus put the job, as I understand it, at 80m euros. Today's extremist organisation, the Alliance for Serbia, led by Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, the figure, as the young say, is represented as a great hero. Therefore, what should our young people learn, or what will the government do to prevent such proceedings, or penalties under the law, because I consider them anti-state activities aimed at causing political damage and material damage to our dedicated industry, i.e. favouring the competitive dedicated industries of the surrounding countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68316	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68317	Thank you. Dear People's MP, all I'm saying is you're absolutely right. I've said in the last few days, I'm going to do it again today in the National Assembly, if I may say so, our dedicated industry is under fire. So, attacked from all sides, and it is not by chance that both the Krusik attack and there is an affair, as well as in "First Five-years" and in "Milan Blagojevic" Luciani and generally our dedicated industry is exposed to very, very large attacks from various sides, and it was completely destroyed by those who are attacking it today. You, at the time they were in power and destroyed her. The dedicated industry, which at the time of the former Yugoslavia was one of the world's leading, extremely strong industries, which employed a large number of people, brought significant revenues to the budget of the then state. We succeeded, not us, but those who were then responsible for leading the country, to completely devastate our military industry. Then slowly investment began in the dedicated industry and at the most when Aleksandar Vukic was the defence minister, he worked on it, as he devotedly worked on everything. And brick by brick, step by step, we were able to rebuild our dedicated industry. With huge investments, huge pledges and enormous effort, because it wasn't easy either to put on its feet, or to promote partners abroad, some foreign markets that we have our own dedicated industry again, that it's quality, that we have all the certificates, that we have all the permits and we have to work, we operate in accordance with the highest international standards. Unfortunately, due to various interests, as I said, on the side, today our dedicated industry has suffered very much damage. It's going to take a lot more time and energy, and a lot more money to get back what we had. The dedicated industry, the general military industry around the world, is an industry that, as well as a natural and logical industry to which it is devoted, is really a great deal of attention, in terms of who it deals with, with what permits, under what conditions, whether you export or sell to those you shouldn't export and sell to. And we have never, in the last few years, since we've raised our dedicated industry again, been in any way threatened, in the sense that anyone, from Russia to America, has at any time said that the Republic of Serbia, is not operating in accordance with all international standards and norms. So, we've been trying, always keeping an eye on each other, giving special attention to working in accordance with international standards and thus building the trust of all international factors and all international partners. What happened is that this attack, wherever it was orchestrated, came from inside and no one on the side attacked us, or anyone else accused Serbia of exporting weapons, where it was not allowed to export. This was done by people, politicians in Serbia, politicians from the SZS, who attacked the dedicated industry of their own country, without, at any time, joining anyone from abroad, except some of the so-called investigative media, to whom a man, whom they call an alarmer, and whom I and whose role I will not define, because it is not on me, but on the relevant authorities of the Republic of Serbia, primarily to the judiciary, to say what his role was. But you have a man who worked for years in Krusik, in an extremely sensitive, securely sensitive dedicated industry, collected classified information and forwarded it to foreign media, research, so-called research media, in Bulgaria. And then Krusik started losing jobs with partners we've been working hard with for years, and those jobs started getting Bulgarian firms. And that's what our politicians are involved in. So that's the one thing we all have to resist together. To resist Serbia and all the people and families that depend on the dedicated industry, and there are thousands. Unfortunately, the damage has already been done. Fortunately, it was never really a questionable role for Serbia in the sense that anyone relevant said that Serbia had exported somewhere where it was not allowed to export and work with partners under sanctions. And everything that's said on our side is documented, justified, disproved, but we're going to have to work a lot more, a lot more, a lot more significant funding resources to invest to make the dedicated industry, especially the Krusik, especially Valjevo back where it was before this staged affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68318	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the questions is for the health minister -- how much progress has been made in Serbia's health areas, compared to the countries of Europe in recent years, since we have been the last of the quality of health services in the world, while those who boycott the National Assembly ruled. Also, a question for the Prime Minister or a member of the government -- what the state will do, and I will make one introduction, that in 2007, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, asked the US Embassy at Jennifer Bras for the US to influence Kosovo Albanians to declare Kosovo's false state, to declare independence until after the election that Boris Todic would be elected president. Depeše "Vikiliksa" clearly shows that Dragan Djilas, who along the way complained about Konuzin, as a fighter against Russian influence, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, and promised to respect the red American lines as a government then. Afterwards, they actively participated in building a wild state of Kosovo, seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice, and none of them asked for it and on what it is now that Thaci is based on Kosovo's independence, they also moved the negotiations, along with Boris Tadic of the UN to the EU and thus eliminated Russia and China. What the authorities haven't been able to finish these days, they're trying to end it as an opposition. You are certainly aware of what Marinika Tepic said the other day here at a press conference in the National Assembly, saying that the recognitions of the false state of KIM were withdrawn, that money was paid, right after exporting weapons from the dedicated industry, and that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the foreign minister of the money received from arms exports, paid other countries to withdraw the recognition of the false state of KIM. As someone who has hosted the Ghanaian delegation, I know it is not true, but for the public's sake, I ask you to tell us, as Prime Minister and as ministers, what will the state do to protect national and state interests, that is, how will sanction this behaviour by Marinika Tepic, who only said what Dragan Gilas wrote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68320	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68321	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable MPs, what everyone knows is that and what everyone felt in what position and condition our health care was, our health system during the people you were now talking about. Once again, I have to remind myself that there were no parameters that could have been considered that we would have been on that list at all. Then we barely managed to get on that list, to be last, and for these few years of hard work and great investment thanks to all of you, thanks to all of Serbia's citizens, and above all thanks to Alexander Vukic, who had a vision, thanks to him who knew what to do and how to do and what to support, we have come to the point that we have reached many European Union countries in that health index. Of course it's not enough and of course we're not going to stop there, but I'm asking all citizens to understand one thing, that it's not easy when you find one completely destroyed system and when you start to stop its collapse and start setting it up, to improve it, and then you have to focus literally on all things, you can't do one or two things and just force them, but everything. To remind you of what our facilities looked like, and our infirmarys, and our health homes, and the hospitals, and the clinic centers, what the shortages of drugs and other materials were like, that they were forbidden to give specializations, that we didn't have accelerators, that people were dying waiting for radiation, that all these things had to be fixed, and that it wasn't a little easy, not a little cheap, and how many percent of the budget goes to do it. I remind you that we are a system that remains free of health, where citizens do not participate, where their health care is covered. It's one of the few countries that have it. In all other countries it's different and it's much more expensive, citizens have to pay for it. We created the Clinical Center in Nis, the Clinical Center in Belgrade ends, the Clinical Center in Novi Sad begins, Oncology II is created, accelerators arrive in sufficient numbers, in January or February arrive, we will open two more accelerators and scanners in Kamenica. Many hospitals restored, many homes of health restored, bought new equipment x-knife, gamma-knife, the latest magnetic resonance for children, scanners, purchased latest medicines, innovative medicines for cancer patients and other diseases, established budget fund for treating children with rare diseases that cannot be treated here, that can be treated abroad, brought dozens of foreign experts here to help our children and our citizens not to have to go abroad, given thousands of specializations, employed by thousands of doctors, nurses, particularly proud of the employees of our best medical students, the best nurses and medical technicians. It's all part of what we've done, but there's still a lot of work to be done for the reasons we want everyone to feel it, to feel all the employees in health care and to feel all the patients. Let me remind you that the highest wage increases were in the healthcare domain, especially for nurses, and will continue to do so. Not only have salaries been increased, but it is also possible to perfect themselves on the cost of the state and doctors and nurses. What we are working on today and I can tell you that today the Government of the Commission approved, so in the next few days there will be a competition for 800 serfs and maids for all health institutions in Serbia, plus another 500 doctors and nurses for all Serbia as well. That decision was made today. I remind you that a few days ago, the same decision was made on the employment of 1,200 nurses and technicians for all of Serbia. So that's the news, we've seen the situation, we've been fighting for sisters and doctors, now we're fighting for both waitresses and maids. We also want to improve their conditions, we're going to check the coefficients they've been getting, whether it's badly calculated somewhere to make it up to them, they're going to be paid for overtime, stimulation for those who deserve it, and those who do. So we're trying to get everyone in the health care system, whether it's an employee or a patient, to give him the best of conditions and to be as satisfied as possible. This work and that fight won't be a bit easy, not a bit simple, not a little cheap, but we don't have another choice, and that's why I expect you to support it and to fight with us, not to succumb to day-to-day political activities, not to transfer politics to health, that it's something that has to stay behind, which has nothing to do with some day-to-day political, because it's something that we'll either be proud or ashamed of. No one's going to ask us if there was a political struggle at the time, so suffer it, so we didn't do it. What we do must be proud of it. Once again, I ask that we all participate in this together and allow our health care to be the way our citizens and our health workers deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68322	The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68323	You, I must say again, MP, are absolutely right. According to all the easily classified information from WikiLeaks, Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic asked the US and US Embassy in Belgrade for the date of the declaration of independence, so-called "independence". The republic of Kosovo moves to declare itself after the presidential elections. Which is scary. It's scary because at the moment of a national disaster, you're thinking about elections, not KIM, and not what will happen to Serbs in KIM, and not what else would be further as a state, even in those last days ahead of that national disaster, you can do. You're only thinking about the election, and how to do everything you have to do, everything you can possibly do, to make sure you win those elections. So the first priority was to ensure, with the help of then US support, that the date itself should be moved just to end the second round of presidential elections. And today it's people who tell us that election conditions should be fair, or that they're not fair today, or that they're worse today than they were. People who were willing to put Kosovo and Metohija on the line just to win the presidential election. People who did not gamble but gambled economic stability, wages and pensions, the country's economic security and its citizens. How? Well, in 2008, which was the election year four times increased pensions on the basis that were all but sustainable and economical, thus ruining our budget, so hugely increased the deficit that together with the global economic crisis led to Serbia's complete economic collapse. Such a collapse that between 2008 and 2013, six hundred thousand people in Serbia lost their jobs, six hundred jobs closed. We are today solving these problems that have been inherited since then, and then when you look at the geneaze of these problems then you see that the worst problems have been made right before the elections to buy votes, and these are the people who are holding news about the elections and conditions for us today, and to remind the built Serbia, we have been responsible enough in 2016 to set up a voter list, because we sincerely want a different Serbia, Serbia in which you have fair, transparent elections, in which you have public administration, a public administration in which there is some order and some common sense at the service of the citizens for 24 hours, seven days a week 365 days a year, and so we have arranged the electoral list. If we had wanted to cheat and cheat, just as they had swindled and cheated, they would have kept a voter's list the way they left it. Today we're trying, let's say, to solve the problem of the reservation logs, that problem has arisen, you know how? Well, three days before the January 2008 presidential elections, on January 17, 2008, the government transferred two billion dinars to the seven municipalities of Toplici County, two billion dinars, 17m euros before the elections. And, tell me, that's not what they tried to buy these people, that these people out there wouldn't protest, that they would vote the way they want them to, and these people are talking to us today about electoral conditions, two billion dinars. Afterwards, the other reservers sued, because this was only in Toplička County and many were charged, above all, by lawyers, unfortunately, tolling huge amounts of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm sure Minister Vulin can add something else. So, huge amounts of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have numerous, thousands and thousands of convictions, in which the court has decided that the state has discriminated against all other reserves, because someone has decided to try to buy some people in the most direct way, pay some votes and pay them three days before the elections with two billion dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the problem that's still going on today. I've seen the representatives of the reservers, and I'll see myself again Monday, and I understand these people and we and President Vukic, we're trying to find a solution, that these people don't feel like they're being discriminated, just because someone thought that three days before the election they could buy their vote. The final indicator of what you said, you set an example of Marinika Tepic, the kind of people we deal with. Marinika Tepic made a statement on December 24th, and I will quote one part of that statement, the question whether Dacic abused the official position by obtaining money for the recognition of Kosovo, so she spoke further, from whom he obtained the money. Then, December 26th or 48 hours later, the same Marinika Tepic says, so I quote again, I did not say that the withdrawal of recognition comes by paying. I quote - the woman said "did Dacic abuse the official position by obtaining money for the recognition of Kosovo". And then, 48 hours after that, the woman said, I wasn't saying that there was a payday withdrawal. What do you say? Who are you arguing with? With what arguments? With people who say one thing one day, and after 48 hours, they say everything the other way around. He's got a recorded statement. These people are accusing us of Krusik, Jovanica, of all kinds of other nonsense. People who, their own word, mean nothing to them personally, but it is a game in a circle, and the only thing that matters is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand what we are doing, which is why we are doing and seeing results and that they know that every day we are doing our best, that the life of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia will be better. If only you could see in something, one millimeter, some shift, in advance for the better. We will continue to work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and will continue to fight that other countries that have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally illegal independence, suspend those recognitions, which is the result, not the money, are the result of work, effort, to improve Serbia's image and reputation in the world. Also, Serbia is now increasingly seen as a reliable, open and honest partner, all headed by President Aleksandra Vukic, that we are today the country to which the president of China and the President of Russia and the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council, we hope the President of the United States, but also many other partners from Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Belarus and all others, because this is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and of all our citizens. Finally, it is the result of the Brussels Agreement. It is the result of the Brussels Agreement, because the Brussels Agreement has made Serbia a bold step and has shown that it is ready to compromise, that it is ready as a serious, responsible country, talks to all to bring about one long-term peace and stability. We gave space to dialogue and only when the rest of the world, those who unfortunately rushed at the time to recognise Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, while our government struggled to declare that independence after the presidential elections, not who would recognise the so-called state. So for the first time, we have shown that the other side does not want dialogue and that we want dialogue, that we are a brave and serious, responsible partner. As a result, there is a suspension and recognition of independence, so-called independence. The Republic of Kosovo, not the money. Just one last sentence. Gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, it's not all about money. It may be yours, but it's not everything and everyone in the world for the money. Money doesn't buy everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68324	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68325	I'm just gonna short-circuit myself to the Prime Minister's exposure. So far, the Ministry of Defence has paid over 7.2 billion dinars of compensation for discrimination against the reserve. The least of it went to the reserve, most of it went to the lawyers. The defence ministry has filed several criminal charges against lawyers who have been unauthorized to represent individual reserves. So they come in there to some association, to get lists, to sue on behalf of all groups. We have also filed criminal charges against lawyers who have sued twice, therefore, for the same person in several courts in our country's territory. So again, when it goes through on a group criminal record, at a group trial, it's sometimes noticed, sometimes you don't notice. So the state has been damaged by billions. It should not be forgotten that the same yellow government damaged the state by its one decision not to pay military pensioners an increase, which followed them and followed in accordance with the law. That's why the state of Serbia paid more than 10 billion dinars. Here, just pick up these two simple digits and see how many countries are damaged, and no one's happy. The pensioners aren't happy that they had to sue the state and wait 10 years for it to finally be paid. They're not happy and they're not happy because they got two, three thousand dinars, they didn't get anything. No one happy, no one satisfied, and the state so severely damaged. Unfortunately, no one's responsible for that. Billions went into the air based on deliberate, wrong decisions, which were resolved after constitutional courts and punished the state in this way. I'd just add one thing, what Marinice Tepic said and did. She's done her job. She has left Serbia, she has made it clear to every friend of ours, who has been on our side in these difficult times, despite the great forces that are against it, that they will be defiled, that they will be attacked and that in the public of their countries they will have an argument to attack them as some corrupt people who have sold themselves to Serbia. She told the whole world that there will always be someone in Serbia who will spit on our friend. Whoever's on our side will find someone to spit in his eye, someone will find someone to insult him and find someone to side with Shiptara. She has fulfilled her task. Now he can deny as much as he wants, this news has been broadcast all over the world, this news has been shared by everyone. All the Cypriot politicians spread this news, conveyed, explained, presented as a top-notch argument, there is no more Marinika to do, she has fulfilled her task. And what she said, she just said that you, me or someone else would have repeated my request two days ago. If that's so cheap, let Gilas of his 620 million buy one confession, buy one of the confessions from his money, so that someone doesn't ask him for that money anymore, and if he buys any support, help our country. Then she said, this is what she said about domestic use, and she did her job, she did it. She's been dumped on all of our friends. As long as we're alive, we'll have responsibility as responsible people to apologize to them and tell them -- sorry, understand that it's not Serbia, but we know how hard it is, and we know when you get home how much you're going to have to explain to many people that the good thing you've done, the good thing, which helped you respect international law, which you helped Serbia, which didn't put you in charge of anything, is why you'll be punished. What to do, no good deed will go unpunished when the marines are similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68326	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68327	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as a comment. I warned almost a year ago that we do not have a problem with the opposition's work gathered around Janko Veselinovic, who call themselves the Alliance for Serbia, but that we have a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business. That's what's showing up to be true these days. To continue to make money, or to pump up money from the subscription, the SBB, United Group, United Media, in which Direkt Gilas Media, to further pump money, those via fake, cross-border channels, which are registered in Luxembourg, and where they do not broadcast the programme, allegedly re-emission the programme in Serbia, or avoid the registration of these media, they are pumping money from subscribers from Serbia to their accounts, wanting to earn a new 620m euros. Those who walk the streets of Belgrade, at unfavourable gatherings, are in my opinion only the physical workforce of Solak and Gilas, and a little more expensive workforce is Tanja Fajon, who has been forced to put pressure on Serbian authorities, on our political parties, to make political changes in REM, an independent regulatory body to politically emulate Gilasov and Šolak's business. I don't think they're going to stop at the elections that follow us in a few months trying to break the election process, challenge conflicts, break polling stations to interfere with our voters and voters to carry out their obligation, or their desire to choose their own power in the election. The authorities not only choose those who go to elections, but also those who do not go out, and they want to lower their turnout as much as possible and to violate the legitimacy of these elections and to expect to challenge conflicts between our citizens, and in conflict with ourselves we are certainly losing ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68328	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68329	I would like to ask a question which we have been asking for years and concerning the PIO of agricultural producers, the Honored Chairman, the Presidency, the Honored Prime Minister, the Honored Prime Minister, on behalf of the MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. The question is, when are we going to solve the PIO problem for our farmers and agricultural producers and I would ask Mrs. Ana Brnabić? This is an inter-resorious issue, and we MPs have been dealing with this problem for years, all farmers in Serbia who are in charge of smaller areas and who have nothing to pay PIO from. I must point out that over the past few years, a lot has been done on this matter. We've reduced the number of members of the land that are obliged to pay PIO. We had a report. We've solved the problem for the farmer's health insurance. A working group was also formed within the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the problem remains related to the amount of pension and disability insurance itself, the amount of the insurance in the future, as well as debts that are a major problem with these producers. We are interested in a final solution in the Union of Duchy Hungarians. The question is whether or not we will have a solution for our farmers in this term. The fact is that we have a huge number of farmers who own less than five acres of land or don't land on those surfaces, they just rent that agricultural land. These farmers have very modest incomes and have nothing to pay for neither PIO nor health insurance, which is at an annual level of around 100,000 dinars. Of course, if we look at the amount of contributions it can be said that this is very little, at least in Serbia, but we have to be aware that a farmer who handles, for example two hectares, does not have so many incomes at an annual level of which he could pay these amounts. The solution to this problem is in the coalition agreement, concluded between the SNS and SVM, from which so far so much has been resolved jointly and related to agriculture is almost resolved by this agreement and I hope that this issue will be resolved as well. It is clear to everyone that they contribute to farmers should pay in proportion to incomes and land size and that they all pay the same amounts for PIO and those who own half a hectare and those who land at 100 hectares. It just doesn't make sense. What we're interested in, Mrs. Brnabic, when can we expect to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68330	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68331	Thank you for pointing out some of the good things we've done together and certainly there are. I'm looking at it in a way that even in this business, we're introducing order in an area where there was no order and nothing knew and everything could have been, and it didn't have to mean it. These people were left to themselves in an unsettled system, which was messy both because of carelessness and because someone wanted to mix, so now we're slowly introducing order into the system. I'm glad we did another big and important thing, which is that for the first time we introduced the right to maternity care for women in agriculture. I think it is extremely important and that this is something that says that in the future, how much in our mandate and our power and, of course, depending on how citizens vote in elections and who they trust, we, this team, are going to fight to further regulate this area and to give to people in agriculture and farmers, to give or provide better quality, better living conditions. As for tax and disability insurance, we are currently thinking, for a while, not right now, but rather working on it with experts from the World Bank and all the information we have from Minister Nedimovic, we have the first outlines of the model so that we can do so in this dynamic, we could end it in the third quarter of 2020. In parallel, we will work on debt settlements and the creation of a new system depending on the income generated by the agricultural land, and the current debt is neither less than two billion euros. So it's a significant asset that we're going to have to invest in this because this is a problem that's been going on since 1986. So we're solving something that's been a long number of decades a problem, a problem that's just piled up, but it's realistic that we do it in 2020 and we end it. Once again, I don't like to make empty promises. I don't like when citizens think we're one of those politicians who makes promises and doesn't do anything. The proof that this isn't an empty promise is that we've already been able to sort out a lot of things that haven't been done for as long as they're heavy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68332	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68333	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is extremely important for us MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians to make it possible to reprogramme in 2020 and it would be extremely important for this programme to last for at least six months, but it would be best if it could take a year. In 2016, when we had a reprogramme, it lasted only four months, which I don't think is enough. What's also important is that through this reprogramme we allow all farmers who want to pay the principal, to pay it immediately, if they are able to do so and, of course, after that, to get their interest out. The huge problem is currently that the tax administration has mortgaged all agricultural producers who have entered the programme and who have debts on agricultural land. That agricultural land can't be sold, it can't be copied. Of course, it's very good that there's been no bidding, and since I have information, there's not gonna be a bidding. It remains in their possession and agricultural land and everything else. There's another problem about that. For some producers who entered the reprogramme and who regularly paid those wars, some tax administrations did not recognise the payment and did not write off their interest or take off their mortgage. We need to see what's going on in the field. I think we should meet up with all the farmers and solve this problem as well. I think we need to take care of the smallest manufacturers. We have to make different categories, like you said. According to our proposal, namely, those who land on a smaller area than five hectares cannot possibly have enough revenue. By paying these contributions, we have experts and this working group has been formed within the Ministry of Agriculture. We urge you to include them in solving this problem. There we are, MPs of the SVM, and we are ready to participate in all this. We think this is going to be good for the country, too, if we solve this problem, because right now it's not going to be a full budget, no one's paying these amounts or paying the farmers hard, but if we solve this problem, then the state can only get a lot more than it would lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68334	The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68335	We'll keep working on this together. I know Minister Nedimovic is committed to solving this problem. We inherited many, many problems in agriculture. There was no systemic investment. It was an extremely low level of investment in agriculture, so it solves only problems from the irrigation system, field electrification, automatic anti-urban protection, and now we have the first automatic radar centre of Valjevo, the first in this part of Europe. So we changed the regulation on subsidies for farm equipment, mechanization, to make production more efficient, cut costs for people to make revenues bigger. Well, then, solving state land, state agricultural land, where we didn't have any databases, we didn't have any control. And it was completely open to machinations. There's been a lot, too, of gray economy. All of this is now finally getting the outlines of an orderly system. But there's still a lot of things we need to work out. One of the great reforms we have to do is pay the same for those who have one hectare and those who have 300 hectares. And at this point in time, we're giving out, so the total cost of pensions is about 30 billion dinars per year, of which 28.2 billion out of the budget, exactly what you were talking about. So let's keep working together to solve this, but at least at this point we have the outlines of one sustainable system, a healthy system, a resilient system, and, ultimately, what shows best is that we've had the last two years, years after year, a strong agriculture better than a 10-year average. Although everyone said that in 2018, a year that was significantly better than a 10-year average was an accident year and that time was going hand in hand and that it was luck, in 2019 it was as good as 2018, even a little better. So, and this shows that even in the short term of this system investment, systemic investment in agriculture is paying off. I personally stand at your disposal, sit down and watch together how we can solve this problem and have our agricultural producers see once again that we really care about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68336	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68337	Dear Chairman, dear Mrs. Brnabic, thank you again for your answers. It's important that we make order, as soon as possible. As things stand, in 2020 we will finally put an end to this problem and it will all be solved. It's important that we look at the economic power these small lords have. Some to free from payment and it is extremely important for us to in proportion to income to be paid by future agricultural producers of this contribution. I will transfer all of this to all agricultural producers on our ground, in my municipality, in Bačka Topoli, in Kanjiza, in Senta, in Subotica. This topic is daily and is of interest to our farmers. We stand at your disposal and thank you again for your answers. They'll come to a meeting together, sure. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68338	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68339	Thank you. The moment we talk in Podgorica, in the Parliament of Montenegro, is the adoption of a shameful and scandalous Law on Religious Freedoms which actually means, according to the assessment of all the observers addressed, the attack on the SPC and on freedom, religious, not only religious, but also the human rights of the Serb people in Montenegro. So, on impact is our church, our countrymen and our sanctity. In that light, I ask Mrs. Brnabic, and I think the question also applies to the President of the Republic, given their statements on this occasion, does it not seem that the state of Serbia could or had to do something more, something more than these, as he said, appeals, appeals and requests? I have your statements here, and you and Mr. Vukic, where you say the situation is ungrateful, and I agree, whatever we do, it's like getting involved in the internal affairs of Montenegro, we need to be smart and thoughtful. I think I've quoted you correctly. Mr. Vukic had similar words – that it happens in another country, I have no right to interfere, but I talked to Milo Djukanovic. So, Mrs. Brnabic, I think it's too important that we might be under it -- we don't want to get involved in other people's business. A team before, as we know, we know that in our affairs everyone interferes for both reason and no reason, from neighbors, and beyond, various other world factors. I simply think that the state of Serbia had to react more seriously and more intensely and energetically, at least to give full support to the SPC that has come to light. My second question, although I'm saying everyone would be enough for the whole evening, going to your address, because you mentioned it again, I had no intention but it's not bad to clear that up as much as we can, it's all thanks to the Brussels Agreement. You've repeated the Brussels Agreement. We've discussed it a few times back, but somehow it's always gonna be your last, which is kind of fine, although according to the procedures of this debate it shouldn't be. So, you're ready to defend still the Brussels Agreement. Now you said, quote - we showed good will, gave hand and all. Again, I think it is too important, when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the north, to say that, behold, we have done, we have shown good will and what have we done? In some ways, we have left the institutions of the Serbian state in the northern province, i.e. the authorities in Pristina, to the authorities of the self-called and self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. We can talk about the sins of the predecessors and very often and gladly talk about what the predecessors have done wrong, but this is your work, this is your act. Just like that Eulex was an act of your democratic predecessors. So, you have fulfilled, we are, not you, we as a state have fulfilled all the obligations of the Brussels Agreement. There were seven or eight of them. They failed to meet the only one in charge regarding the Serb municipalities community. Isn't that proof of incompetence, naivety, that we're not going into conspiracy theories that could easily be pulled out, that I'm waving betrayals and high treasons or the nonsense that was committed at the time? Isn't it your goodwill, our goodwill played roughly without adequate lessons being learned? Finally, and yet with that in mind, the taxes are also mentioned, for more than a year, they have been in force and again, as some Buddhists, as some masochists we react, we say that it is ugly, we will fight back, and we do nothing about these taxis, and we have threatened to react for the murder of Oliver Ivanovic, and because of the arrest and detention, the scandalous, Mr Đurić, who is in the rank of the minister, the high official of the state that was dragged there as a spoil, as a villain, pulled down the streets of Pristina, took pictures with him and again we did nothing, we threatened again. Kosovo's army was formed, we threatened again, we did nothing again. So, I think the harsh and difficult words here are reserved only for opposition and political opponents, and when it's really necessary to stand up in defense of the state's interests, then we're constantly pretending to be dead, or the government is being made dead, or they're being made Buddhists and Fakirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68340	The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68341	People's MP, were you a member of the DS, perhaps? (Jorge Vukadinovic: No. Never? On their list? How did you react seriously, fiercely and vigorously when the referendum was over and Montenegro split off? How did you, during the referendum, preserve the interests of Serbs in Montenegro, Serbian shrines, churches and monasteries? How is this always an ex-post mind for Kosovo and Metohija, an ex-post mind for Montenegro, so now we need to react harder and more energetically? Please, here, I would really ask you to tell me what it means to react harder and more energetically, give me advice, give me a recommendation. What do you want the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do? Shall we go to war? What exactly do you want? What are you representing? We barely got the country back on track, we barely hired people, we barely got to unemployment from 9.5% to average salaries by the end of the year over 500 euros. Barely. They barely made some regional stability because these fantastic foreign ministers and everyone else, President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, were such that we were having a fight with everyone in the world and with everyone in the region. I mean, and I stay on these terms, but I don't change them like Marinika Tepic. I'm staying with what you quoted. We need to be smart and careful. We have done more for the Serbian people in Montenegro, for Serbs in Montenegro, than all together in the last two decades. More, but in a smart way, not with a noise and any kind of demonstration of force here. We don't need the force. We need peace. We need a future together. We need some common economic prosperity. We should try to talk to people in a reasonable way that you can't talk to. I don't mean Montenegro, I mean the opposition to the Alliance for Serbia. We are not threatening anyone, we are not threatening the opposition over the Alliance for Serbia. We're trying to talk to people who are threatening us with snipers, hangings, rapes, saying we're fucks, whores and everything else that the Alliance for Serbia says publicly. We have it written on social media. How to talk to that and people like that. I don't mean you. So, no, we're trying to do our job the best we can in the country and conditions that were the worst possible, and where we are from 2014 to 2016, that is, Alexander Vukic's team was trying to keep any economic stability in Serbia, not to go bankrupt, not to be new Greece, that you can't raise more than 50 euros from ATMs, that we can pay, pay out pensions. Just because someone thought the election was won by raising wages and pensions over and over again, giving people votes, buying votes, and after me, the flood. You're talking about Montenegro today. Tell me -- how? How fierce and energetic? How hard and energetic, and to save jobs on the other hand, to save investors? I know the policy of the Alliance's work for Serbia, Dverry, specifically -- let us come to power and drive all foreign investors away. Sure, you'll only have millions of unemployed people in Serbia, but it's fierce and energetic. It's not smart and thoughtful, but it's fierce and energetic. You want us to act like that now? Here, tell me, what happened in 2006? I can guarantee you, and I'm sorry today when I think about how much one country pays and how many generations pay when you make mistakes in the elections and choose people who are irresponsible, who don't care about the country, we pay it today and pay generations behind us, that Aleksandar Vukic was president of Serbia in 2006 I can guarantee you that the referendum in Montenegro would go differently, that we wouldn't talk about this today. What was the government and government doing in 2006? What was she doing? She flew, wintered, what she was doing, because she didn't do anything systemically. We don't have any reforms, we don't have health care, we haven't even had school. Hospitals are falling apart, schools don't have normal toilets, not to mention they're connected to the Internet. What was she doing? Closed museums. The National Museum is closed, the Museum of Contemporary Art closed. What was she doing? She's gone all over Montenegro. Kosovo went away in 2008 and today you are telling us how not to be smart and thoughtful, but to be fierce and energetic. Come on, please, really. So, these floscules where you're strong on words, and you don't care about the consequences, maybe when you're in power again, and then we keep losing part by piece of Serbia, and then you're for every 100 and 200 and 300 and 619 million euros richer, and then someone comes to power again who's supposed to take out all those stains and generations that they're supposed to suffer afterwards. We will talk to Montenegro and see how to meet the Serbian Orthodox Church and Serbs in Montenegro, to be there, to be present, to see how to control the situation and in a smart, reasonable, rational way to preserve everything that the Serbian Orthodox Church is there by law and belongs to. We don't run away from it and we know it's true. So that property belongs to the Serbian Orthodox Church. By this law or by that law, if that property was 100 years old, that property must be that in the future or I do not know how this Montenegro will, for example, be in the EU. If it were different, why would we do a restitution? Property, that right is inalienable. When you're smart, reasonable and rational, then you talk to everyone in that way, arguments, not squishy and energetic. So much for me. As far as the Brussels Agreement is concerned, I'll tell you one more time and that's something we've really talked about many times. The Brussels agreement showed that Serbia is a serious state, that Serbia is a state that has a brave and responsible leadership, a leadership that it wants for its people to save everything that is saved can be lost by someone else. What was the response to the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo of the then government, the then president? What's that? Was he a man in Romania? At that time, you are neither in the country, and today you are talking about Kosovo and Metohija. Really brave. Indeed morally, courageously speak today and it is up to us to preach about Kosovo and Metohija and Montenegro. I really congratulate you, you should have a face for it. Was the former foreign minister laughing with his Montenegrin counterpart about it, so now I'm not cursing what they did to Serbia together? So, you go ahead, we'll be smart and reasonable, and you'll be just fierce and energetic and the most intense and most energetic when you're in opposition. But when that happens, and you are in power and you have responsibility, then Bulgaria, Romania, left, right, no one, let it pass, let the elections pass, let us have power, and then we'll see what we'll do and how we'll do. Every day for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68342	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68343	Mrs. Brnabic, I think the chairman should have warned you that he is not speaking to the MPs here, not even the opposition. But if you're talking like that, then at least don't make any material mistakes, because maybe you didn't have that intention, you said - you weren't in the country, it turned out like I wasn't in the country when independence was declared. You probably meant metaphorically or thought of, I don't know, the then president of the Republic. Also -- while you were in power, you mentioned it several times, I was never in power. Maybe I won't be, maybe I will. I don't... That's some luck, but we can't keep swearing to what they've done before. The ex-girlfriends wouldn't be ex-girlfriends. I told you to do it well. I also agree with it, as it has been said, that it is difficult and long to eliminate the consequences of the wrong election, of the wrong vote. I agree here, except you mean the votes that led to the predicate's power, and I mean the votes that led to your government's power. The consequences of the wrong choice will also be borne for a long time. They didn't vote because they were good, beautiful, smart, but because they were very angry with those predecessors. Whatever. It's old manipulation, I'm going back to that story about strength, energy, brains and thinking, I'm always for brains and thinking. I just said and suggested that what you call smartness and thoughtfulness is actually called weakness and non-response in international diplomatic order. At least you said what you just said, that you said it in some demarche or some meeting with the ambassador, you or Foreign Minister, Montenegro. It's not a dilemma. We either war or turn our cheeks and pretend to be dead. That's what everyone knows, it's just so good sounds rhetorical when you say – now some irresponsible elements lead us into conflicts so we'll have less wages. On the contrary, by energy, but with serious rationality, much can be achieved within the limits of its possibilities. As for responsibility and where I was when independence was declared, I criticised the government's policy towards Montenegro at the time, but I must admit that according to Milo Djukanovic's regime, along with all the shortcomings of the two previous governments, along with all faults and mistakes, had a clear distance and a clear critical attitude. This government was scurrying with Milo Djukanovic while they were in opposition and when they came to power. Some say they had jobs, I don't get into it, but political understanding, they spread love and friendship with Milo Djukanovic so much, then use your connections and your good contacts with Djukanovic, so at least this scandal doesn't work. In that sense, when you say, you will talk. You should have talked. A few weeks lasts that protest, actually months, let alone weeks, but it can't be rested. This relationship towards me, even figuratively, illustrates your relationship to the opposition that does not call for murder, is not violent, participates in parliament's work within the limits of possibility. It would be better if you were here... (President: Bringing the end. ) The last thing, I am sorry is not here, Mr Stefanovic, but whether you think the dedicated industry is jeopardizing more newspaper inscriptions, or perhaps the dedicated industry is jeopardizing the affairs and data that Mr Obradovic provided, called it an alarmer, or did not call it. So when it comes to the corruption of the dedicated industry, when it comes to strange contracts, whether others have worked, or previously, worked upstairs, arrested them, chased them. If it doesn't seem to you that these suspicious private intermediaries are, it's an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68344	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go. You got it. Here you go. The word has a minister, Mr. Loncar, and then Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68345	Mr. Vukadinović, I listened very carefully to you, you will help me if I didn't get something right. Okay, you have your version of how to react, what to do, and I think you said one key sentence, and that is, if I understand you correctly, that is an indicator of how it reacts if the state is strong, or how serious it is. Did I get that right? Now, we have a situation when it was what was, when it was, everything that was happening to you from some angle of yours now you have an excuse for all of it, or you have no excuse, or you say it was bad, that you weren't in power or anything like that, and all that. Here, just to do one analysis, nothing else, Serbia's rating then and Serbia's rating today with Alexander Vukic at the helm. Have you forgotten what it was like back then, whether there was a government meeting, and before that the agenda was not nominated by the embassy, and how you think it could have been a change of agenda from the embassy, and then someone came out and something was protesting and something was surprised that he wasn't there, which was gone, which he found a thousand excuses, and then he went to the neighbor there to apologize, to the others he couldn't go, no one came. Just to get back to that point, everyone has their own principles on which to react, but if you want to tell me you'll have more time, if you're going to tell me and explain to me, that Serbia's rating today has any similarities, and to explain it to me, I would be too pleased, and I think all Serbian citizens would understand everything you're saying. On this day when there were never more salaries in Serbia, on this day when there was never less employment, not less employment than you say people have gone, than employment has grown, as factories have come and what is done. I don't remember when the factory opened anymore, we don't remember when more roads were made, done, and highways. When schools, hospitals, and all things needed to be restored. Is that what the president of China, the President of France, the Chancellor of Germany, the President of Russia, and everyone else, were coming at that time? Have you forgotten what those meetings looked like when they came in? Have you forgotten what the look on your face looks like after talking to Angela Merkel, is it possible you forgot that? What Serbia was wondering about at the time, just tell me one thing Serbia was wondering about, which it didn't get on the outside and didn't have to do. Please state to me one thing that Serbia alone has brought, when I ask you, and which cabinet sessions has been held that does not harmonize the agenda with the embassy. And there's no problem. And what does it look like today when Alexander Vukic visits China, when he visits Russia, when he visits France, when he visits Germany, when he goes to any country? Did that ever seem like it? Is that how Serbia was respected? Is that how Serbia was respected? Is that how Serbia led the wise policy? Is Alexander Vukitch coming? Is he apologizing? Did he get his head down there in Srebrenica, when he was attacked, when his life was at stake? No, he didn't bow his head because he represented Serbia. And where would the others be, the ones who were before? Well, they'd bury themselves in the ground. First, we wouldn't even go down there. No more representing things with some fake pictures or anything. Let's talk about it the way it is and let's open it in this Serbia topic. Let's open it up. Who orders whom here? What opposition? What black opposition are you talking about? What opposition? A couple of tycoons gathered. They don't have anything to do with politics. They didn't go past politics. Miskovic and Šolak are smarter than them, some shadows give money, these are presented, Đilas and Jeremic tycoons, as something they understand about politics and they come out. Do you know what that looks like? It seems that every day and every night they get in writing what they're going to say tomorrow. What the hell do they know about politics? Who and when are they attacking? We'll explain everything. Not to you, not to you, but to the citizens of Serbia to know how it works. Who tells them to go to the boycott, and who tells them not to boycott, then who paid for what? So who ordered what text. I'll tell you in the next few days what's behind the Krusik affair, what's behind the Ph.D. Here, I'll tell you myself in the next two days. Or, not to you, I'll tell the citizens of Serbia, so they know what it looks like. Do we want to run Serbian politics? Is our church Serbia and Alexander Vukic who has been legitimately elected. We're full of the devils that Alexander Vukic chose here, and they, they found other churches where they're going to pray and think they're their friends and brothers. There's no politics, no love, no friendship, all of it's an interest, so we're gonna push everyone out. Don't make fun of me anymore. Please state to me when Serbia was more respected and when it had better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68346	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68347	Thank you. You know, you'll remember how sweet Jeremic and Rocen laughed at Serbia and how they cursed her mother, how they rejoiced, what they did to her and where they brought her. You know, I've also been on the lists of Montenegrin leadership that I shouldn't be entering Montenegro. It must be because of these good relations with the Montenegrin government and that we miss telling them what they're doing and what we're missing when they're doing something. It's not like that. You know very well that none of their activities that we thought were in the interest of the Serbian people, that we did not make it loud and clear condemnation, that we did not react, that we did not do what was up to us. Not all the things that are done in relationships between states are said. Sometimes you don't go somewhere, sometimes you just go somewhere because you want to let it know what's going on. Sometimes there are different political moves in the economy, but don't make a play out of it. Don't make it a circus, you make it a theater, you do it and you act. Sometimes you build a Serbian house and give one fourm euros, so now you see if it helped Serbs or didn't help. I'm sure something good has contributed and done something good. Then, you add up all the Serbian parties around you, to come to the queen, to come to Belgrade, to come around about their president, Alexander Vukic, and those who do not have that centrifuge, when there is no one who gathers them, know how to fight and make the wrong move that is more appropriate to those who are against Serbs, and so responds. So it's state policy, so you add up all the Serbs around you whenever there's any sadness and joy, so you show where and where a policy goes. Then you see how Alexander Vukitch behaves, and then you see that he is accepted by both friends and enemies for whoever speaks for all Serbs wherever they are. So you see one changed Serbia and you see how these relations change. Don't do this, Milo Djukanovic, because he thinks he'll get, I don't know, new votes, he won't. He knows very well what he is doing to his people. This is what he does to make himself worth fighting Serbia and to get the support of all those who are against Serbia and to say, "Here he is, fighting, here he is provoking Serbia, here's why he needs to be supported." That's what Milo Djukanovic's doing now. Did we miss saying that? As you can see, we are not, as you hear, and as you know, we will fight to bring the Serbs together, unite and help them to political articulate, to be strong enough to deal with this evil. Will the state of Serbia talk about this at every international forum, wherever it can? It will. Is he going to talk everywhere about human rights, religious rights, national rights? It will. Will that question be asked every time he sees a representative of Montenegro? It will. Will he insist on it? It will. Will he do everything in her power? Well, of course he will. Does that feel like Montenegrin power? Well, he does. I'll tell you now what we all know, but let's say it in front of the citizens of Serbia. At this point, if the meeting is not over, I really don't know, the Metropolitan of Amphilochy Radovic is in talks with the Montenegrin government president, if they haven't finished in the meantime. It's up to us to hear what they've agreed, what they've done, so we can see what the Serbian state's position will take and so on. The Serbian state will respect its church, listen to what the church has to say, listen to what Patriarch Iriney says. I am no greater Orthodox than the patriarch Irineus. He'll tell me what to do and what he expects of my country and my country will certainly help him and he'll be there. So don't, please, no way for anyone here to think, I don't have any anger at your reaction, you have the right to say that. Everything is better than acting like Gilas, acting like Solak, like Miskovic, like Marinika Tepic, who are working against their country both secretly and publicly, and I thank anyone who comes to this parliament and says what he has to say, here in front of Serbian citizens, not my Serbia. So everything is better than Gilas and his official, Marinika Tepic, who conducts what he says. We will do everything in our power and be careful and patient, but not patient and patient in the sense that we wait not to react, but to be careful and patient in doing what will not bother the Serbian people. You know, I listen to the Metropolitan Amphilochy that comes out and sometimes undetectedly says a lot to Serbian officials, too bad that anger never referred to Milo Djukanovic, too bad. If he'd done it before, it might have been different, but you have to appreciate the state reaction of Alexander Vukic who didn't want to answer, and he didn't want to make a fight, and he almost had a fight. She could have been made inside of us, between us. So this is a serious and thoughtful state that takes care, which knows what to do. You mentioned here and Kosovo. We don't want to run away from the subject of Kosovo, we don't want to run away from what's going on in Kim's space. When a Serbian citizen, when the Serbian government decided to shrink and move almost from the KIM area, when the Serbian government introduced EULEX to the KIM area, as a legal and armed force, when the Serbian government decided to move away from KIM Russia, China and other non-recognizable countries, and introduced EULEX and the EU, when it moved Caphora to be only, they say -- the third responder, so to translate, when it introduced Caphora, who reacts only after the Kosovo police to anything to happen, and then Eulex, then Caphora, then you no longer have a choice, but you have to enter that fight and at least to the Kosovo police to introduce Serbs. Then you must at least try to get the Serbs in there, so they don't cross the Shipari and arrests to the north, so they don't command the region north, at least so much to do. When they cleaned up before you and Cafort and UNMIK, when they removed everything that could keep the Serbs in KIM, that they had preserved UNMIK and Caphora at full capacity, you could negotiate differently, but they removed EULEX and you had only one choice, to pretend that nothing had changed or to start fighting. What are you gonna do? Go now to Kosovo Mitrovica and talk to people about whether they prefer Kosovo police officers who are there to find them, we did not bring them, if they were Shiparians or if their neighbours were Serbs. What do they do? To pretend it doesn't matter, so it's important to whoever lives in Kosovo Mitrovica, it's very important and it's very important for him to be his neighbor. With all the evictions, with all the lies of Shiptara, with all the attempts of ROSU, all their incursions, all the conflicts we have with them and which we will only have, but what else can you do? If nothing had been done and waited, you would have only continuous Serb columns from Kosovo leaving KIM and nothing more. This is how they felt their country, there it is, fight it. Do you think anyone is happy about the Brussels Agreement? Do you think nobody's hurt and doesn't hurt their stomach every time you think of the Brussels Agreement? Do you think any of us were having a party? Well, we didn't make a celebration with the Brussels Treaty, we were sad, it hurt, it pains, but you have to do it for your people, because what else to do, to keep it that way, to keep it that way. Aleksandar Vukic, I was with him, after the Brussels Agreement, the day, went to the Kosovo Mitrovica Assembly and spoke with all the council members. You can imagine how it was, how much it hurt, you can imagine these emotions, you can imagine the anger, the anger, the confusion, so they understood, so no one left, so everyone stayed in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. You have KIM MPs here, they know best. Would you, Doctor, prefer to have a neighbor of a police officer, even if it was built, through the region of the north, or to be your Southern Mitrovica Shiptar? How else? That's how it was fought and hard, and now it's hard and now it's sick. We are Serbs, here we speak the truth in front of the Serbian state, in front of the Serbian nation, we do not triumph, we do not rejoice, there are no celebrations, there are no celebrations, but pain and hard, but you have to do it, you have to do it for your country and your people, we don't change ties like some others who change ties on lakes, we don't do it. It's hard, we know how hard it is and we know how bad it is and the Serbs in Kosovo know how bad it is, but they know what it has to be, they know you have to do it. They pulled out the only thing you had, you had KFOR, you had UNMIK, they pulled it out, you're gone. Caphorus now that you call, they say - contact Eulex, and Eulex says - contact the Kosovo police. No, they won't, they won't react. Then, if so, and you know that, at least keep some Serbs, keep them there and as long as we keep Serbs living in the KIM space, as long as we control institutions in the north of KIM, we're here and the state of Serbia is there and can't do without us. If he could do without us, so you don't think he'd be done by now? What, they like to negotiate with us? They love that they have to listen to what the Serbs want, what the Serbs want and what the Serbs think? Anyway, it has to because we've kept the Serbs, because we've kept them in institutions, because they can't do it without us. How many screams did they threaten when the mayors of the north resigned and retreated from those institutions? How much pressure has the international community put on them to return? How much pressure did she put on the authorities of the Republic of Serbia? He can't without the Serbs, he can't, but we've kept them and we have to keep them. All our struggle is to keep the Serbs in Kim's space. As long as they are, so long as Serbia is, everything else is an empty story and we can talk, to praise each other as we are heroes, but just keep the Serbs in the KIM space, it's a fight, it's the only fight and be with them. Alexander Vukic was with them whenever it was hard and hard, and he spoke to his face what was the greatest pain. How many times did others go ahead of them, but at difficult times. Not when you come before the election and say, "Don't worry, it's all work, it's just that you're not back in the state legal order, it's over, just vote, you come and say how much pain it is, you come and you tell what's true, you come and you say, "I'll be there, you come and you say it won't happen again." You raise an army, you take out an army on your way back from 1999, you raise an army that makes the whole world jump into Serbia's army and Serbia's commander-in-chief to ask him to stop. Well, throw out the ambassador of a great powerful country, our president says you won't tell me where I'm going to let go of the gendarme and where I'm going to let go of the army. Well, that didn't happen until 1999. Because of such an approach, he stopped the attack on northern Kosovo. Because of that approach, they retreated from Gazavoda because of that kind of approach, because sometimes you show strength, soldier's strength, sometimes you negotiate. You always negotiate, but behind you you have a powerful state, you have a powerful army behind you, you have a people who understand you, a people who know what they want. Well, it didn't happen, where it was fortunate that it happened in 2004, if at least one unit had moved, that one single unit had landed in 2008 that at least someone felt the need to raise the military's battle will. No one, the army was surprised, asked, confused, angry about what you were feeding us, if not for that. No one asked them, no word said, no order, none sent. Now we've shown and they've carefully measured the reaction of our army, and our friends and enemies, how quickly we're going to get together, which direction we're going to go out, whether we're all going to respond, if we're going to get there equipped, armed, or we're going to be driving by buses. When they saw that a combative, working army was created, they began to think differently. Then tensions started to fall, then KFOR came forward, then everyone answered and said, "Let's calm down the tensions, as the EU would say, if both sides abstained from incendiary statements." That's what happened. So, it's all the state and the state does that, the state uses all its mechanisms, the state doesn't respond to what it would be first, so the easiest thing to do right now is to tell President Vukic, I'm interrupting all diplomatic relations with Montenegro, almost, is not what Montenegro should be. Two days later, the Serbs from Montenegro will come to ask, so how do we cross borders, how do we get passports, how do we school in Belgrade, when you have a controversial agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, under which our children, Serbian nationalities, from Montenegro, are educated for free, how can we treat ourselves if agreements between our insurance systems do not work? What should we do with Serbian property located in Montenegro? The easiest thing to say is what we all feel right now, and we're angry, and we're people and it makes me sick to see in Montenegro, that my people have to prove that the Ostrovi monastery is his. So, who does it belong to? I'm sick of it, but what are we supposed to do, end diplomatic relations? You want us to stop diplomatic relations right now, and keep Ostreg further away from us? Well, should the Serbs in Montenegro be further away from us? What else can we do? Smartly, step by step, this has its price and will leave a mark in our relations, but it will not leave a mark on the life of Serbs in Montenegro. He won't leave a mark on them. Anything else can and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68348	Thank you. The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68349	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I do have the first need to thank the largest number of MPs, which is also through this form of parliamentary issues, on the last Thursday of the month, carried out in a manner consistent with the strengthening of the system of government. To the legislative authority, our citizens do not attach that importance to, among other things, the lack of understanding or the desire of individuals to do their jobs in accordance with acts that regulate the conduct of MPs. It seems somehow to me that when asking parliamentary questions to the government, although in this home, from individual representatives of the opposition and those who do not support the government, they are more often hearing questions to the president of the state, and in fact questions should be asked to us, sitting here, ministers, Prime Ministers, and somehow I feel that the answers to these questions are an opportunity to remind ourselves that there are clearly suggestions from MPs about diplomatic activities, at the highest level of Serbia, are not in line with the expectations of individuals, especially at the moment when relations between Montenegro and Serbia are very delicate, precisely because of the status of the SPC. So it seems to me somehow that some MPs are a little forgetful of the fact that there is parliamentary diplomacy. Parliamentary diplomacy should be complementary, state diplomacy. So, that foreign policy led by the president of the state, led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which my colleagues, ministers, particularly President Ana Brnabic, spoke a lot of. Is it necessary to react quickly? Is it necessary to present to the public every step that is taken in foreign political activities? Should we have affairs about the reputation of foreign political activity and close the door in front of the world? That's the question this home needs to answer. Those individuals who ask these questions, and I am aware that I came here today as a minister to be asked, but I simply have an obligation because I have been sitting in parliamentary benches for a long time and I have worked the longest actually in the state on these jobs, and I may need to remind them that they should be asked, and what they have done through parliamentary diplomacy personally, because there are such opportunities, and it may be that the complementarity of official and parliamentary diplomacy, the best key to the country's reputation is to be on a higher level, and that delicate issues, as we have now faced with such issues, are resolved in a much wiser way than they would want. If there was a sincere desire to approach the SPC issue in this way and that certain support, then it is most likely that the formulations of questions, at least those who well know why they ask it, would be quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68350	The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68351	I'll do it very briefly, my colleagues said it all. I would ask you, when you say with all the faults that the previous government had, they had at least a clear attitude, when they had a clear attitude in 2004, when it was a pogrom, so Serbia did nothing, and then it was in the full capacity of the territory that we had, we could have power, power. No independence has been declared, or that they did anything in 2004, while Serb monasteries and churches burned. I don't remember anything. They burned down mosques in Belgrade. Okay, clear attitude. Or in 2006, with Montenegro in 2008, when Kosovo's independence was declared, what clear stance did they have on what? What is the clearest attitude that previous authorities had? The clearest attitude the previous authorities had and which best speak about, what kind of an open, honest authority was shown in the dispatch of the "wickilix", which says Vuk Jeremic, US Ambassador Manter, was unequivocally told Serbia for NATO membership. They were talking to one citizen and the other to the ambassadors. And you're saying there's a clear view of anything, anything, KIM, Montenegro, NATO, the EU, Russia, they didn't have a clear view of anything, and they didn't have an honest, above all of their citizens. And you said one more thing to me and I'll end up with that, you warned me about my inappropriate address. I don't know what you meant, if you meant the terrible words I said, I quoted representatives of the Alliance for Serbia. I would never talk about anything like that. I was quoting. But I find it strange, dear People's MP, that you warn me of inappropriate address and behavior, you who, when Srdjan Nogo, MP Dver, wrote on Twitter that Alexander Vukic and I should be hanged on the terraces, which you answered – the terraces were hanged by patriots, so that is out of the question. It's your political communication. Hang them, but they're not patriots, not at the Terrace. And you're telling me I'm misbehaving. I have a lot of respect for you because you are a national MP and with some votes you represent some citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so I respect you, but don't talk to me about misbehaving and speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68352	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go. Up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68353	I've got two minutes, I've got 80, 70 minutes, whatever. There is irony, there is context, one is Twitter, Mrs. Brnabic, the other is the National Assembly, but it is much less important. So irony, sarcasm, I don't know if you've heard of it? What's more important, now it's proven that Mr. Vulin said he wasn't happy about his presence... No one is, that he's bitter, angry, angry, he feels hurt, and you've said here many times that you're proud, that the Brussels Agreement is great, diplomatic, and that you're proud of it. That's where you jumped into your own stomach. As far as this is concerned, you've misread it again, when I said they had a firm attitude, a unique attitude. No, I don't. I said they had little or no firm attitude, but they did have towards Milo Djukanovic. That's the point, that's what I said. Leave other things and mistakes now, I'm talking about previous authorities. This power of yours planted pumpkins with Milo Djukanovic before you came to power and when you came to power, let's see the results of that action. Last and most important, on this issue, Mr. Loncar -- are we appreciated, have we ever been so appreciated, is Serbia respected, how respected, who came? They've been coming, Mr. Lonchar, they've been coming before, Putin's coming, and Mrs. Angela Merkel's coming. What you have honored to this previous government that I have no development motives, no interests to defend, but what you have honored them, no expression of Angela Merkel's face, so that is the most positive thing that I can stand up and say at the expense of Boris Tadic. After meeting him Angela Merkel had such a face, so we're not here, not our ministers and presidents here to meet the happiness of Angela Merkel, Mr. Loncar, but to defend national interests. If he had made Angela Merkel happy then, if he had satisfied and caused a smile at Angela Merkel, he'd still be president of the Republic, you'd still have the evil yellows in power, believe me, Mr. Lonchar. What the reputation of our government was seen in Paris and President Vukic in the treatment he and Serbia had at the celebration of the end of the Great, or First World War. That's your best indicator... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68354	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ministers, my letter should first be addressed to Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, but simply because of this previous discussion, I will refer my first question to Mrs. Ana Brnabic or Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Current topic in Montenegro? It's not gonna be my whole question, but I'm just looking for a connection. As Minister Vulin said earlier, we don't have any information until now what's going on in Montenegro? Negotiations are under way and they're talking. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic said in one of her most targeted tones that diplomacy is in fact the only solution and the most normal approach to solving such a problem. What is best from the whole story and what is one message, above all for all of us living in the Balkans, is suddenly unity and great support for each other between the SPC, between the Islamic religious community and the Catholic religious community. I think we should put an end to this and at least this way we don't discuss it here. But when we talk about this international and regional co-operation, here's my question for the prime minister. So, a few days ago, on December 21st or 22nd, Serbia's President Aleksandar Vukic was in Tirana on the so-called "little Shengena", so I said that Mrs Joksimovic could answer this question simply by the European Community and is that regional co-operation is being formed within Europe itself. At the same conference, Milo Djukanovic was present, and he supported such regional co-operation, and he advocated that we need the most normal communication and above all to keep us all focused on empowering the region. My question is whether this regional co-operation will expand to other countries in the region and whether, among other objectives, I do not have that information, will be a dominant fight against organised crime and will work to preserve all the current borders that exist within this regional co-operation? I certainly must say that when we talk about regional and general, international co-operation, that Alexander Vukic did a lot of things. We have excellent results, and when it comes to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, I am not only talking about the recognition of Kosovo, but also about one of the open communication with all the countries with which we have almost lost any communication in one period. Of course, it should be no less important that the president of my party Dragan Markovic Palma, although he is neither Minister nor Ambassador, you will all agree, has done a lot in international co-operation and also to bring a large number of investors into Serbia. The second question, and yet more important to me than this, is certainly a question for Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and the ministry she runs. Alexander Vucic identified it as the biggest problem, and that's why we had this pie in this government and we had the established Ministry of Population Policy and Demography, so I'm interested in the national year, since we've increased the budget, and on the other hand we have the results specifically when it comes to Jagodina, each year we have two classes of champions more. What are your ministry's plans for next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68356	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68357	Thank you. You know, with the power of Milo Djukanovic, the people who burned this assembly were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were You remember their great joy and happiness when they finally freed this Assembly, freed it from paintings, furniture, valuable carpets, various arts, you were scurrying with the government of Milo Djukanovic and scurrying until today. You think they've changed? You think the old alliances are shutting down? You think those who burned this assembly together, and here I think of Milo Djukanovic, for his support of the then five-octobaric DOS, and financial, intelligence and any other criminal, do you think their alliances are gone? Are you listening to Milo Djukanovic? Do you think he wants Serbia to be ruled by a strong leader like Alexander Vukic or by a Gilas? Something tells me that Gilas is closer to him and that he could handle his affairs more easily with Gilas and that no one would ask him anything and that no one would even rebel when, for example, his foreign minister said he would vote in Interpol for regional stability for Kosovo. Well, let's give him some answers, and let's let him know what our position is. So the old alliances don't get lost and the old alliances don't shut down. What I personally think, and this is not the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I have the opportunity to say now, absolutely against what is done in Montenegro, I am absolutely against the adopted distraught law under which Serbs should lose their church, their monasteries, their sanctity, and I think we should follow church politics, see how the church behaves. The church knows best what it takes, so as the church goes, so we go that way. That's my personal opinion, not the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, let me have the right to say it. We're not and the Prime Minister is nowhere to be wrong about what she said. We are proud of the struggle that has been fought and led around the Brussels Agreement and everything that has happened after it, proud of the courage of the people who carried it out, proud of the courage of Alexander Vukic to elect it. And do we think he's the best and the best, so of course he's not. Well, you sit and negotiate with terrorists. Is it really anyone who's even serious who might think it's nice to sit with Hashim Thaci? Hey, you're sitting with a man you know to think of your people all the worst. Sit down with people who either killed or participated in the killing of your people. You think it's pleasant, that someone's looking forward to it? But that's what we're telling you, it's torture, it's pain, it's stomach pain, it's disgust that you feel, but because of your people, you have to, and you can take it. We didn't meet Hashim Thaci in Dubrovnik, when he didn't have to meet either, but we met him where we had to fight, fight him, save the Serbian state and the Serb nation in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course we're proud of the fight, and are we looking forward to the Brussels Agreement, are we looking forward to having to negotiate with them at all? Well, of course we're not looking forward to it. Well, who can be proud? Who can be happy about it? But you're proud to see Alexander Vukic put out that fight and how he's still wearing it. Of course you're proud. Who can be happy? Well, we would be proud that, as an organized and orderly state, we could finish what was started in 1998, as every country in the world did, but you had the most powerful military alliance against yourself and now you have to negotiate, so when you negotiate, of course you are proud of those who fight and who fight well and courageously to represent Serbian interests and the Serbian state. Well, are you comfortable? Are you feeling all right? Are you looking forward to it? Do you think that's good? Well, of course it's not good. The only good thing for us is the Constitution of Serbia, but unfortunately, Resolution 1244 of Serbia has been suspended from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, so you must fight as you fight and as Aleksandar Vukic fights. So, cheap are demagogue tricks. Don't do that, at least not when it comes to Kosovo. No one is happy or satisfied that he has to negotiate and negotiate, and we feel pride only for the fight we fight and for nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68358	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68359	Thank you. Well, here I am, of course, going to have to comment on what you, MP, mentioned in the context of regional co-operation, the initiative, but before that, I would really have to comment on something that the previous MP said, as a great apologist for former President Tadic, who, for God's sake, gave the most rabid expression of Angela Merkel's face ten years ago when she came to Belgrade. You know, what you just said, it's either such a ignorance of politics, or such ignorance of responsible international policy, or you're really thrilled with the rule of Boris Tadic and DS were both their international affairs and the international collapse of Serbia in every respect and every moment. The expression of Chancellor Merkel's face at the time said that she was amazed that the president of a country, an important country in a region like Serbia, had made such false promises, which might have liked some in Europe, in the EU, or in some countries, although they do not match those of Serbia's national interest, therefore, that astoundingly promising the president of one country such things, rather than being brave enough to conduct them in internal politics, because elections are coming, so it should be promised on all sides, rather than realising anything, it is a commendation of madness, rather than a commendation of intelligence. Therefore, what we have done and what Vucic has done and why Serbia is today appreciated, including the president, has contributed to his responsible approach, is sustainable, rational, reasonable and feasible, and with the population of Serbia, at the very least, acceptable solutions that we could stand behind, without the promise that others will like it and that we will do, but because of others, what is obligation, we will come out of one vicious circle, but we will satisfy what is the interest of Serbia, our citizens and our people. This is what responsible politicians across Europe and the world have accepted, because these are serious people. They're people who know when they talk to someone, so they talk to people who have legitimacy, who have the support of the people and who work in the interest of their people. And, believe me, I've been Minister of European Integration for almost five years, respecting you only when you defend your people's interests, even when they disagree with you. Those who promise and those who do everything in the interest of their own survival, therefore, both political and each other, are not appreciated. They are temporary partners, who, if they can benefit from another state, are happy to co-operate, but they are also happy to reject the moment when it is seen that they no longer have a role to play. That's not the case with this government. That's not the case with President Vukic. We fight for our interests in a reasonable, very responsible, very mature, and I can tell you a very determined way. They're right about my colleagues. They don't talk about everything in public. I never went out as a minister to convince you what my conversations are like. I am trying to send our citizens a message that the EU is a good future for Serbia, but that does not mean that we are silent and silent about what is not always in our country's best interests and that we are irresponsible silencers in these talks, who only listen. One of the MPs said – Tanja Fajon has put pressure on electoral conditions. No one has put pressure on the electoral conditions. It was a reasonable dialogue and agreement and understanding of the fact that some things could be better, perhaps not even for our party, to say, favorable, but that the overall context could improve and no one was pressuring. Pressure among responsible people comes only from realizing the need to further improve things in the interests of citizens. Now, in the interest of the citizens, Vucic also worked when this party, when we launched an initiative on this so-called. a mini-Schengen, or a regional initiative. Of course, I'm talking to you now, because the second question is on the agenda. Therefore, it is the interest of citizens of the entire region to take the economy as the best framework for improving relations for the pacification of the whole region, for reconciliation, for reducing prejudice. When you have four basic freedoms – freedom of movement of capital, freedom of movement of people, services, ideas, after all, you give birth to diplomacy of people. It is no longer just an international reference to government, parliament, minister of this or that, diplomacy of people. So we live in the region. One of the preconditions and European integration is regional co-operation. But regional co-operation ultimately benefits both economic and political and security for all citizens of our countries. And it was a leading idea, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, but why not, and to the citizens of the region. It is neither a substitute for European integration, nor is it why we want to justify ourselves to anyone, as the President has said several times, I believe he is right, because this is an authentic regional initiative. This is an authentic initiative by Serbia and the president of Serbia, which has always been seen as some hegemon that has special interests in the region, and we are not hegemon, but a responsible state that wants others to make progress and that it is the only way that we will be more interesting and competent in one big European market. I remind you that Montenegro initially reacted negatively to this proposal. Some ministers from the government of Montenegro said it is not good for Montenegro's economy. But, you know, if you are a country that wants to join the EU, and Montenegro is, among other things, related to other issues about Montenegro's policy, the country that opened the largest number of chapters in negotiations with the EU. That's binding. If you want to enter the EU and a much more demanding market, and you do not have a sub-regional and regional good initiative for your economy, so with what economy will you go out hundreds of times stronger markets, such as the EU market, the EU common market? So this is kind of an additional exercise and practice of good economy and competitive economy and for what the common market is. Not to mention, in this sense, Montenegro should, of course, be as a country still with Serbia's leading country to the process of European integration. It should respect the rights of minority, human, civil and religious rights of all those living in Montenegro. In that sense, I think European integration is a good framework for talking about the subject as well. And that's smart and mature thinking, which my colleagues were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68360	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68361	Dear People's MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, I will be very brief. I thought there was a minimum of some reason, a minimum of some facts or something, but obviously I was wrong. Here we could hear from the gentleman things they couldn't even figure out, and I don't even know how he could say that he was more esteemed to Tadic and, I don't know, Kostunica than Aleksandar Vukic. I gave it all to them that they understood something, that they had some kind of game review, but that they were doing it for some reason, for some reason, for some of their tactics. I finally realized today that they have no overview of the game, that they are serious antitalents for politics and for everything else and, unfortunately, with such people it is difficult to polish and talk. We will have to turn to ourselves and watch what is best for the citizens of Serbia, because some things need to be understood that it is no use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68362	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68363	I thank you, Your Honor, for the question you have referred to me because it really is about a question that is touched by perhaps the deepest national interest, at this point in time by Serbia. The fact that we're under seven million at this point, which is the average age of 43.2 years, which is expected to be 78 years for women and 72 for men, which means that we're getting older as a nation and in Europe we're the eighth in a row of states at that average age. These are issues that are more important to all strategies, related to all segments of life in Serbia. In the last two and a half years, the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. you have voted here for a budget that had a lot of understanding for transfers to local self-government units, and 1.2 billion are set aside for local self-government units to do everything based on their own priorities, in line with the elements of the Strategy for Incentivising Birth, because different problems are in different environments. We do have extraordinary examples at the level of cities and municipalities spent and thanks to this type of activity alone, we are, for example. Reduce waiting lists for 2,500 children, boys and girls, for kindergartens, for preschool institutions. Of course, the initial results and if demographics have taught us that the first good results will be 10 years from now, this kind of population policy can already be registered. We are the only country in the region, and all members of the former Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, so EU countries, Hungary that pay particular attention to this issue and Albania, which has more than 600 newborn children in the first nine months than last year, are all down. What are our plans and what is this resort that has now functioned at the level of the cabinet and until and after the election will certainly work? This is a portfolio that will deal with, above all, creating better conditions for young people to stay in Serbia to live and work in Serbia, to plan more families through projects related to housing. Our data tells us that only 29% of our young citizens, couples, have solved the housing issue. Construction and the possibility of reaching living space is very important for all families, for all partners who plan to give birth, children and survival here. Another important element is working with employers. You know, employers are very interested in profit. The employer is, at the very least, both state and financial institutions and business entities, but the activity we started to test and to invest together in preschool institutions that are not only a place of education, i.e. childcare, but also education and acquisition of those first habits that the child should have in both cultural and intellectual and concise terms, should be at a higher level. Only 51% of children who are supposed to be in pre-school institutions are placed in these, which means that talking to employers about subsidies, which the state would also give a partnership that we would have in terms of developing a network of pre-school institutions... That's our plan. These two plans are most directly related to the Council's initiatives and this is the National Council for Population Policy, headed by the president of the state, and the Council of Government, headed by the Prime Minister. So these two segments we can't just solve through a cabinet whose head I'm headed for. We can do this exclusively together, all ministers, above all, in charge of health, social policy, finance, education, and how they co-operate on these issues and joint activities deliver solid results. What is very important is that the knowledge of reproductive health in many areas is quite low and that the concept of sexual education and reproductive health should, through a system of education, be one of our tasks, and on the other hand really encourage parents to approach this issue in an appropriate way in communication with their children. It is an important problem, because the number of underage pregnancies, the number of people who actually have health problems, and potentially parents or future parents, is not small, so in collaboration with the health system and social protection system, we think that we need to and work on these issues. I just want to mention two more segments. One is related to information funds that do not rarely sensationalistically approach topics related to population policy and actually have counterproductive effects. We think that a certain education and co-operation with them should be at a higher level in the next period, as we think that the most responsible in the units of local self-government, and there is an example of Jagodin, must actually work in a way that brings together both the non-governmental sector and the part of the academic community that belongs to that environment and that the mobility of each individual, that we work together on this issue. Beautiful texts were written in 2008. As minister, when I entered the government, I found them in dust-covered drawers. So experts have contributed greatly to making a strategy that has not been implemented and we have been working on these issues since 2017, but it is only the first step. We have a distance of 7,000 miles.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68364	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68365	Thank you, Your Honor. To thank all those who gave the answer and just one little note. I asked you in the middle of a discussion, Mrs Joksimovic, to give me your word. I know it's not the Rules of Procedure. I'm not a timid man, but my aunt was upset by the way and tone of how the minister spoke, so now I'm telling the public that it wasn't addressed to me. Sir, my colleague Vukadinovic was there, and the criticism went to him all the time, and this second part was directed to me. If I can keep going on with the questions, but you can give me back these 30 seconds, since you didn't just give it to me. It's a question for Alexander Antic. What's certainly current in the sector you're dealing with, Mr Antic, it's so-called. The Turkish flow, so I'm interested in where the works came from, how are the works progressing, and how much does it really matter to Serbia? For Mr. Djordjevic's question, yesterday we withdrew the migration law from the agenda, so now I ask that you inform us a little bit, what is the strategy in terms of economic migration, what are the consequences, and what can we as a state expect on this matter? For Mr. Vulin, once again, I'm going to be apostrophe of what you pulled yesterday, and that's the thing that came to me the day before yesterday, and that's the strategy that we're going to adopt together, the strategy in which the most important goal is that Serbia's territory stays within the limits of what they are. For all those unfaithful Tomes who have said and suspected various situations, this is the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us MPs who will vote for this law. This is not a strategy that changes every month, this is not a strategy that changes every year. This is a long-term strategy and this is the path Serbia will go in the coming period. By the way, Minister, let me ask you, since certainly much better militaryly equipped than before, to be honest with the neighbors around us, to our little closer and a little further neighbor, the only thing I think might be missing, and I'm asking you for an answer, and that's a better PSC system -- are we going to get it when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68366	The word has a minister, Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68367	Mr. Vujic, good news for your aunt. These days, we have finished installing the "Turkish Stream" pipeline from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary. Of course, it is primarily good news for all Serbian citizens. We, as promised, will be finished by the end of the year setting up a pipe on our share of that pipeline. We realized that. We're done with the liner section of the pipeline. Of course there's still a lot of work ahead of us. During 2020, a cell block, a measuring station, a large compressor station that needs to ensure that the pipeline has full capacity and that we can remove the necessary pressure to supply Hungary from that direction. All in all, we've done a lot of work this year. It is of great importance to Serbia. Serbia is getting a new gas supply route. Unfortunately, all this time, Serbia has been relying only on that direction from Ukraine through Hungary. Now we have one far greater energy security that can provide us with, above all, two key things. First, if Serbia had a transit of gas and made revenue from it, which for those of us who have been somewhere, let me say, on the appendix was unimaginable and on the other hand, it can allow us new plans for Serbia's gasification. So a whole set of new projects is opening up now. Now we can bring gas to all Serbia, develop new industrial zones, ensure that all cities are connected to gas, in terms of their heat, etc. We expect all countries on the Turkish Stream track to realise their projects. At this point, all the views are focused first and foremost on Bulgaria. Let's start in a row. That sea share of that pipeline is over. We expect it to be officially declared in Turkey in early January. A share of the land-based pipeline in Turkey to the border with Bulgaria has been completed. Bulgaria's first share of gas pipeline was completed from the border with Turkey to their major Strandja compression station, which is entering their gas system, but is still a large part of the job to bring the pipeline to the border with Serbia. They're here in some light delay, light -- it's like this to say on my side maybe a flexible expression. There are delays. And they needed their pipeline to finish by the end of the year. However, because of the problem, I hope, because of the problems with the selection of performers and the particular court procedure they had at the time, they have only recently begun work and consortium with the Saudi firm Arkad led the work. We expect or have a promise that in the first half of next year they will end about 308km of gas pipeline towards Serbia, which will ensure that the first quantities of gas towards Serbia come from that justice in the second half of 2020. I repeat, a project of exceptional importance for Serbia. A truly capital project, a 403km-long project, with a large number of monitoring gas elements, including a large compressor station that will be built somewhere around Žabara, therefore, a project that dramatically changes Serbia's position on the gas map and in the region and Europe, and a project that, I repeat, puts Serbia's income from transit and, more importantly, it can plan new projects. I want, no matter how much work it is, to say that this is a passing time for us is extremely significant. I would like to thank the entire government for one huge commitment to the implementation of this project, of course all those who participated in the project and the Mixed Committee for Co-operation with the Russian Federation, on whose behalf the first Vice-President of the Government of Ivica Dacic is, but also, above all, a great deal of gratitude to President Vukic for the great support he gave to the development of this project and to me personally as a man who was in front of our Government at the head of the Working Group for the construction of that pipeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68368	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68369	Thank you. The apostle said his aunt was upset by my tone and manner of addressing the MP. You know, now your aunt has really upset me because I'm really wondering if I've crossed the limits of good taste, and I never do. So, I'm also trying to get opposition MPs in a very reasoned way, because this is a debate forum, your aunt, just to understand, she's watching the Assembly, it's a debate forum, and the tone can rise, change up and down, but it's important that there's no insults, insults of individuals, etc. My aunt really upset me, if I crossed that line. Personally, I think your aunt was upset that she thought you were in opposition, so that's what I'm talking to you about. Don't worry about the tone. I never, not even SNS MPs do that. So I think that's the only problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68370	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68371	Dear MP, any equipment and any weapons of the Serbian Army shall take place in accordance with the relevant planning documents, in accordance with the relevant strategies, in line with the appropriate projections given first by the Serbian Army, the Serbia Army General Staff, or the competent administrations that know best what Serbia's military needs. It is no secret that in 1999, during NATO aggression, we survived terrible blows, that a significant part of our PSC was destroyed, that the Air Force barely survived, that a significant number of our radar was destroyed. From 1999 to 2012, we didn't bother to rebuild any of it, to do anything. From 2012 to today, we've been doing it intensively. The fact is that Serbia's military lacks more anti-aircraft systems and the fact is that we will work on it so that you can be confident that the Serbian Army will be stronger than it was. Right now, to draw everything and to say everything and to give every date and every producer and any price, of course I will not do it, but in what you and all Serbian citizens can be safe, reliable – Serbia's army is already stronger than it was, and it will be much stronger already next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68372	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68373	When it comes to economic migration and the strategy on economic migration, in addition to the demographic issue, it certainly represents one of the most important issues, and it also speaks only about the involvement of a president who does not have his own public address, who does not put the issue of economic migration first, how and in what way do we fight to keep young people, but also to bring them back to our country and to make our country interesting that perhaps some foreigners come to live here with us. In such circumstances, the coordination team certainly made one conclusion that it is necessary for our country to have an economic migration strategy, that is, how and how to put ourselves as a state, in order to solve this particular problem. In that sense, it also started to develop a strategy. The strategy is currently in the public debate phase, it was in six cities and ends on 3 January. I expect the public, who is very interested in this topic, to be involved in the whole story, to submit their proposals, because of the quality of this strategy and what we want depends on and how we will then be set up according to the action plan and who will be the bearer in the country when it comes to the action plan, and all with the aim of preventing the departure and return of young people, to do, to say, at a more effective level. When it comes to economic migration, he concluded that there are three reasons why they happen. They are, of course, present in countries that are much more developed than Serbia and that there is an easy solution tells the fact that perhaps the only country that has a partial or, as I say, success in that is Israel. Three components are important when it comes to economic migration. The first one is material-financed, possibly the most important. The second is the state's concern about the citizen himself. The third is social life. When it comes to social life, we will start from it, there is Serbia far ahead of everyone else, but, of course, that's not enough. When it comes to the state's concern, that's where we started, and that's exactly where our prime minister said in her exposé, digitization, citizen care, then attitude towards them. Facilitating this everyday life of our citizens is a very important fact. ` Material finance, as I said may be the most important, but it is the slowest and hardest to reach some satisfactory level. And certainly all of those successes that we have as a state are talking about that we're going to get to the point of view very quickly, in a way, one satisfactory level that can give us the opportunity to have all three components on a satisfactory level. The finance ministry is also working and there are a lot of measures that it does. I was in Israel, and I talked to the people who worked there, they don't differ much from us, except in the fact that they go into these measures more courageously and carry them out much more courageously. This also says that the courage that the president did in 2014 when we made a turning point and when we went positive in our economy we should do in these things, that the measures we need to take should be taken more courageously and I am sure that this government will do so. What's also important is that today we have this present situation in our political life that, and whenever our president talks about this, and whenever anyone talks about this, there's irony on the other side, that opposition that's looking for a boycott of the next election and that sees, in all of that, an irony and speaks against it. They speak against the state, against the perspective of this country, against the future of this country and in some way, while we are dealing with the return of young people, while we are dealing with how to make our country interesting and that young people do not leave this country, Solak and Gilas are dealing with how, when it comes to another migration, the migration of capital, how to get out of this country, how not to tax and how to get out of some exotic places. That is the fundamental difference between them and us and I believe that this government will certainly succeed because the future of this country depends on this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68374	The word is Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68375	Thank you. As far as migration is concerned, we're really working really hard on it, and I'd kind of share in two of the topics that we're working on. One thing is, of course, to make the conditions that young people or people in general don't want to leave Serbia and that's all the government has done since 2014, so this government since 2016, so you've been making a competitive economy, opening jobs, raising salaries, raising salaries in the public sector, especially in health and education. That's what we're gonna keep doing, and I think it really does work. The other big topic is how to get those people who went abroad back to the country. We've been working on this intensively for the last 12 months, and we have some concrete results. One thing we don't do is have any analysis of how many people are coming back to the country. So we don't have that data and anyone who criticises the government is talking about brain drains, and no one is following how many people come back because people are coming back. In addition, last year, in December I started an annual conference with our, above all, young people from the diaspora, which is called – Talenti in total, I wrote at the addresses of the 50 best, most prestigious world colleges, to ask that people from Serbia, students from Serbia or teaching staff, if they want to contact me and my team, to organise this conference together. Last year, we had a great conference in the Serbian palace with 260 people from abroad, where we talked all day about what it is that Serbia can do to change some things to make it easier for them to come back. That's where I heard things that I had no idea about, and I don't think either of us, certainly none of us before, knew that as long as we declaredly invite people back, there were some legal, naka legal burdens where we charge them every return. For example, if you have a person who is abroad for some time, when he wants to return to the country, when he wants to return his property from books via electronic equipment, televisions, machines, cars, anything that's estimated through a 5,000-euro property, they have to pay customs duty to do so. So if someone was abroad for five, seven, ten, fifteen years and more, they have a family, they want to come back, they'll definitely have property, their own property in much greater value, and they won't feel invited or stimulated to return to a country where they're going to charge him for customs, and that's their property. These are some things that we could change specifically and quickly, and we've already changed. I have a second such annual conference tomorrow and a positive indicator that this time, 450 people responded to that conference, much better, and 260 were already great, but 450 fantastic people, who will come, tomorrow is a day-long conference at the National Theatre, where we will present to them what we have done compared to what we agreed 12 months ago, what we have done in these 12 months and define what further we can do. I'll tell you now a few things concrete we've done. So, first we changed that tax treatment, of course thanks to all of you, the MPs, and all those MPs who voted for those amendments to the law, I will be proud to present it tomorrow and we raised it so that if someone was abroad for up to ten years, that limit is at this point up to 20,000 euros, and only over 20,000 euros are you paying customs. If he's been abroad for more than ten years, there's no limit, they just come back, they bring their entire assets without paying any additional customs duties. Another huge problem was the nostration of the diploma. A very difficult process, a very non-transparent process that could have lasted indefinitely, and that's what, of course, bothered them. As Government, we adopted the bill that we sent to the Assembly, I hope it will be on the agenda of the extraordinary session, if the Assembly accepts it, in January or February, where we shortened the date for the nostrification of diploma from 90 days to 60 days, plus we suggested that for 500 of the best universities, with the three most prestigious lists we have automatic recognition within eight days. Since January 1st, we've introduced e-strification, we've done everything electronically, so these people don't have to collect their papers, copy them, they need one piece of paper, they're missing one piece of paper, they're bringing it to the counter, they're doing it electronically, and we're their service. We have also set up a program called "return point", which is likely to come from a circulatory migration agency where we have people who only deal with people who want to come back. So, of the most practical things, when you want to go back to the country, where you get your ID card, where you get your health book, what you can do, how the labour market is, how to help you get a job, find an adequate job, and all that stuff. The last thing, great, is that thanks to you again, I thank you all for that, as part of the set of financial laws, we have amended the laws concerning taxes on citizens, so that now companies that have employed someone in the diaspora since January 1st, so returnees, want to return them, and has a minimum three times average salary, which means that they receive a salary of 1,500 euros, in the next five years they are exempt from even 70% of tax and contribution payments. So we're making it very competitive. So these are some of the most concrete things where we struggle to have our people back in the country, parallel to that we struggle to keep our people in the country. Thank you for this question, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68376	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68377	Thank you. Since I only have two minutes, I have to mention my aunt again and say something, depending on the circumstances I'm in, my aunt knows, and she's sure I'm always on the right side. If you're alluding to the fact that I'm in Vranjska Banja opposition, what can I do are circumstances. I'm someone here who supports this power, and the prime minister has just said one part of the reason why it is. Thank you for the answers you've given, and secondly, as far as my aunt is concerned, believe me tomorrow, I'll tell her the best thing about you, because she doesn't know you. When it comes to agriculture, not to ask the question of Dragan Markovic Palm has repeatedly asked for a strategy or a way for farmers to inform what they need to meet, what they need to plant in another year. Since you're in charge of information technologies, you've launched this one positive wave, maybe you should think about this way of quick communication between farmers, cooperatives where they're helped to form them and the ministries that have the most accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-26-0.u68378	Thank you. Since no one wants to, or since it is 19.00 hours now, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues and I thank everyone for their participation. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. [[The session was suspended at 1900 hours]]
