ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 115 MPs have applied. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. We're going to work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already asked several questions from the interior minister about the Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic's criminal affairs. Meanwhile, I also published a whole book on a thousand pages in which I documented these criminal affairs, and now I would like to supplement Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic's request with some more information. The Serbian public didn't know until this morning, from this moment on, that Vice President Rasim Ljajic, the owner of the construction company "Ikan Company", which is a subcontractor of the company "Alk Companies", owns his close friend from Novi Pazar, named Numan Barjamovic. Rasim Ljajic is financing the construction of 14 buildings per hundred apartments in Socije. I wouldn't mind Rasim Ljajic, who has a rich inheritance from his grandmother, being financed by 1,400 apartments in Sochi. However, it seems incompatible with the role of the Serbian government's minister and vice-president. You were probably a little nervous about this campaign that was launched against me at the stadium in Novi Pazar, where they first sang that their first and last wish was to slaughter the Duke of Seselj. I sing to them and I don't resent them, it's fun, it's funny to me, and then they start cursing the dead mother, and I say, I can't repay you with the same amount because I'm not a necrophilus, I can only over the living to keep my promises, and then I make sure I get to the data that these people are doing and on whose orders they are. Fan groups in Novi Pazar "Torcida Sandzak" and "Extremi". The "Extremes" were controlled by Sulejman Ugljanin, and "Torcida" was Rasim Ljajic. Rasim managed to put them together and put them under his control. A group of fans are engaged on his part in various companies, where they have a compensation of 40,000 dinars a month without doing anything or showing up at work. Fans who receive salaries without ever showing up at work are Mirza Gracanin, called Cuffte, Emir Rapović, called Bombay, Mirsad Puzovic, called Mikan, Enes Koncanin, called Tange, Tarić Šehović, called Tarzo, Iksan Zejnelović and Suad Zoni, called Sutko. All statements, curses, insults and insults write and place Mirsad Jusufovic, adviser to the mayor of Novi Pazar, brother Rasim Ljajic, Kasim Zirnic, who does not even have a high school completed, and Kasim's son, Suad Zirnic, whom they call Sutko. So, since our police have all this knowledge, who would I get from if not from them, right? You know of my standard networks, notification systems, information and reporting systems, then it is a great danger for Serbia that police do not inform Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and that Minister Stefanovic will not react to this either. Instead of doing smarter jobs now, finishing my books, I promised the nation that I would finish them before God invites me to myself, I must spend my precious time researching this species.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51805	Time, thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51806	Dear President, I will ask the question, but let the citizens of Serbia know that I asked the question on December 6th 2018. Part of the question was that of Vojislav Seselj, a convicted war criminal, who sits in parliamentary benches. This is the only parliament in Europe where a man with a strong verdict from the UN war crimes tribunal sits in this parliament. I received a reply from the chairman of the Administrative Board, I thank the chairman of the Administrative Board for the answer, and that answer is very indicative. The administrative board could not give an answer because it had no ruling from the UN tribunal. I am now asking the foreign minister, who is in charge of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, to deliver to the National Assembly the UN tribunal's verdict translated into Serbian to the Administrative Board, so that the Administrative Board may consider that there is no man sitting in these benches who has the UN tribunal's judicial verdict. I expect to get that. I would not continue to comment on what is being said here, these have been lies, untruths and half-truths that Vojislav Seselj is constantly presenting in his political activity. And what Vojislav Seselj says is that he writes books, you know, he's not a writer, he concluded his book on the record, based on the stenographic notes, because that Vojislav Seselj believes in the system of this Serbia, in the institutions of the system, then he would have done very correctly, if he had delivered all his findings to the Ministry of Interior, if he had delivered the Department of Organized Crime. Then it would be clear that he does not believe in it, and this is why he brings out where he does not belong, in the National Assembly. Rasim Ljajic, as an honorable man, filed a lawsuit against himself by the Department of Organized Crime, asking that the Serbian state institution tell what is true and what is not true. I'll tell you right away, and it's quite clear to the citizens of Serbia, and they don't need much to be explained to them, it's clear that Rasim Ljajic is an honorable man who doesn't even have a criminal registration for traffic and not something more, and these people who sit on my right, whose policies are defeated and who act as opposition here, they're quasi-position, more specifically they're a shallow opposition, they don't bother anyone, they don't do anything. We are not afraid of these plush opposition and you will be defeated, as you were defeated in the previous elections in four cities, as you were defeated in the Belgrade elections, as Vojislav Seselj was defeated in the presidential elections, could not even cross the censorship. Gentlemen, with this policy that you are leading, you will never win the election and disappear from the political scene of Serbia, and you must disappear, because, as I once said, you are an accident for the state of Serbia, you are a cancer in the political sky of Serbia, and we will no longer debate with you, because it has no purpose whatsoever, especially your insult, humiliation and all that you do. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will move forward and be assured it will always beat you everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51807	No more elected MPs to ask questions. Please don't ask me the same question after every question. Call me back, so I can give you my word in order to report it. The word has Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51808	Thank you, President. I will refer the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, but before I make a few remarks. In 20 days, it will be two decades that without the approval of the United Nations Security Council and against international law, the aggression of the largest and strongest military alliances in the history of human civilization has begun on a small and sovereign country. During 78 days almost the entire infrastructure of one state was destroyed, but what is more difficult, what is irreparable to bridges, factories and residential buildings and military facilities are the lives of innocents and brave defenders. What did this unjust war look like in numbers? 19 member states participated in the alliance's war, including those non-NATO countries that made their airports and other assistance available, the SR Yugoslavia attacked 26 states. The estimated total material damage ranged from $30 billion to $100 billion. During the aggression, NATO hit about 3.350 infrastructure facilities, of which around 1,400 buildings were destroyed, and more or less about 1,950 buildings were damaged. What we know is that the aggressor completely destroyed seven industrial and business facilities, 11 energy plants, 38 bridges, 28 radios and TV repeaters, 470 kilometers of roads and 595 kilometers of railways, damaged 19 hospitals, 20 health homes, 18 kindergartens, 69 primary and secondary schools, 29 monasteries and 35 churches. The aggressor countries at that time had 744 million inhabitants and a state budget of $3.312 billion, and then SR Yugoslavia had 11.5 million inhabitants and a $3.85m budget. NATO started the aggression with 464 aircraft and ended with 1.040. During the 78 days and nights of the bombing, about 30,000 air raids fired 50,000 destroying missiles and over 1,000 cruise missiles. The total mass of these killings is about 22,000 tonnes. Serbian forces died from 24 March to 10 June, of which 589 soldiers and 172 police officers died. Over 2,500 died and about 12,500 civilians were wounded. The aggressor killed 97 children, the youngest of whom had been less than 11 months old. There are no cities and settlements that NATO bombs are not principles. There are families left under the ruins. In Aleksinac, the Milic family died at one point, Father Dragomir, Mother Dragica and their daughter Snow White. Under the bombs, life and the youngest victims of NATO aggression, 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic and her father, Bozina, from Merdar, were extinguished at Kursumlia. In Novi Pazar, two-year-old Marko Simic and his father, Vladan, died together. Three-year-old Milica Rakic was killed in Batajnica. In Vladic's Han, the bomb hit the embraced high school graduates, Milan Ignatovic and Gordan Nikolic. On the barbaric bridge, a bomb hit 15-year-old Sanja Milenkovic, a girl whom all teachers predicted a brilliant mathematical career. Under the ruins of the family house in Ralja near Sopot, the life of small Pavlovic, eight-year-old Stefan and five-year-old Diana ended. The majority of the data we have are determined during the first year after NATO aggression, as there is a change in government in Serbia in October 2000 and a new republican government does not pay much attention to the consequences of NATO aggression. The question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is whether there is a possibility that the Serbian government will form a working body that would determine the exact number of all, especially civilian victims, as well as their names and last names. We have witnessed the fact that due to negligence and certain political delusions, we have missed the opportunity to record all crimes against the Serb people after the end of World War II, which opens up space for various political auditors to manipulate the number of innocent victims, especially as regards victims of Jasenovac's death camp system, as well as death camps Gospić, Jadovno and Pag. In addition to the exact number of victims' identities, it would be good to determine the exact amount of material damage that was done to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia during the aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51809	The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51810	Dear Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when will the government integrate the Albanian minority into state authorities and institutions? The Albanian minority has been neglected and not compared to other minorities in Serbia. What are we to blame for the bad relations between Belgrade and Pristina? For decades, we have not invested in economic and economic development, with unemployment ten times higher than in some developed municipalities in Serbia, and the president of the country will not meet us in Bujanovac and Presevo. We have become hostages of bad relations between Belgrade and Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51811	The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51812	Dear Presidents, dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity and, on concrete examples, to point to a difficult situation in the Pcinjska region's judiciary, which is affecting all citizens and to put a few concrete questions to the justice ministry. The municipality of Surdulica, as a defendant last year, received an executive ruling from the General Court in Surdulica, which ordered the municipality to return a citizen to work, will not now name him, whose employment relationship ended in 2011. Nothing here would have been controversial and strange if that same citizen, meanwhile, had not acquired the right to a disability pension because in February 2017, he was diagnosed with a complete loss of work ability as a result of the disease. Why did he get the right to a disability pension? The municipality obtained evidence of retirement from the PIO Fund and submitted the document to the Executive Court, but the document was not respected, which is why we made a complaint to the Supreme Court in Vranj. The second-degree court rejected the appeal and the local self-government is required to act on a solution to the execution and execution of the verdict and to return that person to work. If we don't do it and we don't execute the verdict, we're in a felony, and logically the question is – how do we implement it? So on this occasion I want to ask the Ministry of Justice to advise the Municipality of Surdulic in what way to return to the working relationship of the man to whom the medical commission has determined the loss of working ability, 100%, and who is currently a disabled pensioner, even if he is not a pensioner, this citizen is one hundred percent disabled according to the medical report, so the question is, which job can he do? No law has regulated a case like this. I think this is a unique verdict in Serbia that has been made at the expense of the municipality of Surdulic. I ask the same question to all fellow MPs who are lawyers, and the number of lawyers in this room has a lot in all parliamentary groups -- have fellow MPs ever heard of such a case? I want to explain to this occasion how the Surdulica municipality has ever come into such an absurd situation that it needs to carry out one court ruling, which cannot be executed and that is contrary to both law and common sense. Justice Minister Mrs. Kuburovic and previous Minister Selakovic have learned how many times I have pointed out the case of prosecutor Daniela Trajkovic, who is from the post of Chief Prosecutor in Vladic's Han and the ban on the post of senior public prosecutor in Vranj. The public is aware that Mrs. Trajkovic, the highlight of her prosecutorial career at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Han, experienced when she, without conducting an investigation and without my hearing against me, indicted for allegedly inflicting a citizen's physical injury. My question is - for which reasons I as a citizen, had no right to a prosecutor's investigation and what about my criminal statement of insult on the national basis of that same citizen, this is the same issue for the State's Major Prosecutor. I complained to this verdict, complained to the damaged, complained to the public prosecutor, but the Second Instance Court rejected all complaints and confirmed the verdict, although the citizens awaited long sentences, I received a ruling from the Cassation Court in 15 days. All the lawyers and law professors, as well as my colleagues here in the assembly, who I gave the subject to get to know, say in a joke, that the only thing left was that the witnesses were still missing to complain about the verdict so that the court would abolish it and return it to a retrial. I don't have time to read all the sins and all the illegal actions of our prosecutor, but I would like to ask a concrete question – how many people have been legally released from the blame, how many proceedings have become obsolete, and how much of the court's costs have fallen on the burden of the state budget all the time since Daniela Trajkovic has served as the primary public prosecutor and since the senior public prosecutor in Vranje? Is the cost of acquittal charges borne by Daniela Trajkovic or is it paid by Serbian citizens through the budget? Will a procedure be initiated to regress the state from the prosecutor, since it is a shame that she is doing illegal work? I'd have a lot more questions and a lot of complaints from citizens who contact me, but there'll be time in the next period to keep pointing to problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51813	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51814	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I have several parliamentary questions, and they are all addressed to the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, and in connection with the frequent attacks on these protests. The first issue is related to the attack on JP workers "City Cleanliness", which took place on Saturday, February 23rd in Belgrade in the Terrace Tunnel, and following protests organised by Djilas, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and others from the Alliance for Serbia. My question is: have the police conducted an investigation into this event and have all other necessary actions been carried out to determine all the circumstances under which this attack took place, have they identified who the culprits of this incident and, in particular, who the organisers and the officers of this attack are? The public in Serbia is upset about the case because it is an attack on people who have done their job. They did what they do every day. They cleaned the city, just like they clean the city every day. It's a serious, honorable and very difficult job, and none of them have challenged anyone in any way. They didn't express any attitude. Simply, people did their job and almost experienced lynching. They almost got beat up by a mob with no reason. Why? Because they dared to clean up their city, because someone dared to do their job for which he was paid, because it is not at the will of the protesters. Does someone need to get beat up for cleaning up their town? Does someone need to get hurt because they're doing their job? Should anyone for any reason not be in the will of Dragan Gilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and others? Is that the Serbia you stand for? Is that your policy? Is that the system of values you represent? It particularly upsets the data published in the media that the "City Cleanliness" workers are offended by this opportunity on both religious and racial and national grounds. We have a statement from one of the workers. Bekay Elvis, one of the city's cleanliness workers, said he and his colleagues, as every day, came to clean the tunnel after the protest when they were attacked. He says: “There were fifteen of us, and there were hundreds of them, ” these are the mighty ones, the fifteen of them, “and they began to insult us and to shout at us, what are you running away from? “ Or maybe it was as famous as Bosko says - where you run. "They pushed us, but they didn't get to hit us, because we barely managed to escape. We are afraid to flee to the Green Wreath, even a colleague left a truck just to save our lives." This is Serbia wanted by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, the unhappy Borko Stefanovic, Janko Veselinovic, and others from the Alliance for Serbia, Serbia that would be beaten daily by non-insanes. My next question concerns an even more drastic example of assaulting people who are doing their job. This time it was a journalist and happened in Prokuplje on March 2nd, so a few days ago again during the protest organised by Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and others. Namely, whether it was identified who was responsible for the attack on pro-Westi journalist Sonja Pesic, who went out on the ground on that day to report from their protest. At the time of the attack, she had an I.D. on the newspaper she was reporting. She stood where the other journalists were and did their job and almost got beat up. She experienced shaggings, harassments, various insults and threats only because it is not at the will of Djilas, Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and others. This is clearly seen from the Official Note made up of the same evening at the Police Department in Prokuplje. So it is very important that all of this be processed and sanctioned, as the physical attacks of the Alliance for Serbia's representatives become daily in Serbia. The Alliance for Serbia policy has long become a policy of violence and hatred for all who think differently from them. Everyone has the right to walk and protest, but no one has the right to threaten and threaten anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51815	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Ljiljana Malusic, Djordje Milicevic, Dejan Radenkovic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The first and second sessions of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2018 and the minutes of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11 and 12 October 2018. I conclude the vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. I put to the vote The minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, held on 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 October 2018. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 28 January 2019. I am concluding the vote: for - 135 Members of the People. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. In the Assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda for the session. We're moving on to reviewing the acts by emergency procedure. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Copyright and Related Rights Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Rights on Movement Matters entered in the register be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic suggested that, in an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding abuses in the conduct of electoral actions and illegal influences and pressures on the election will of citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. A group of 22 MPs proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts that led to the disastrous situation in which the media in the Republic of Serbia are currently in place and to determine the responsibility of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas have proposed to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine whether the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has acted and whether it is acting in accordance with the obligations provided for by the laws, or whether there has been a failure in its work and whether there has been a loss of independence, independence, objectivity, and that, if it is established, the procedure for the resolution of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and then the procedure for proposing and appointment of new members of the aforementioned Council. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic suggested putting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for appointment of the Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote: 134 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has been accepted. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Zika Gojkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a law on return of property and compensation. Does the MP want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51816	Dear fellow Members, I propose that today's agenda be placed on the agenda a new law on the return of property and compensation. The essence of this law is justice, the end of discrimination and poor applicability and the quality of the existing law. The current law we have has a series of shortcomings, has led to discrimination and the fundamental problem that exists in this law is the lack of a substitution that would result in fair compensation in property. We're not looking for anything new, we're just asking to apply the 2007 law, by which the property was returned to religious institutions, but that the law is now applicable to all citizens. About 95% of the total assets, which are sought, are agricultural land, forests and pastures. The state has enough of this kind of property in its possession to make up for a fair restitution in the property. It would also profit the state, because it would finally have a chance where there were no heirs to register the property on their own behalf and what might be even more important, there would be no financial compensation and additional borrowing. Unfortunately, today, most of the property of the agricultural land, which is state-owned, is used by tycoons who are rich in the 1990s during the unfortunate wars, and just after 2000, after the change, in 2000 they bought huge assets when it comes to land and factories that were meant to be the subject of restitution and, of course, legalized their dubious wealth at the very least. At the same time, in a magical way, it was possible for several families, to buy several individuals, foreign citizens from Croatia and Hungary, in a magical way several tens of thousands of hectares of land in Vojvodina. In all this time, the Karadjordjevic family, as well as the vast majority of Serbian citizens still seeking property, failed to reach their grandfather's day. Dear colleagues, think only that the restitution was done justly before the war conflicts in Kosovo, what Serbia's position in the negotiations would be today. Just think that the restitution was done justly before the robbery privatisation would there be so many bankruptcys and so many people on the street? Of course not. The movement to rebuild the Kingdom of Serbia, which advocates national unity and reconciliation, advocates that such reconciliation can only be if we tell the real history of our peoples. Please, let me finish, and if we correct the past injustices, because we are not doing it for the EU, we are doing it solely for ourselves. We won't stop as long as...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51817	Time. Thank you, Ambassador. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work permit a.d. for insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. MP Nemanja Sarovic is based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51818	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's been many years since the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Also, there has already been a slow year since I proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that in this meeting, the Assembly set up a polling committee to determine the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. It is clear that this political background exists, it is clear that Zoran Djindjic is more valuable to many in Serbia than alive. Who had the most interest in his liquidation? Who ordered her? For what reason? These are things that are never reliable fortification. Of course, we of the SRS have warned from the beginning that the murder is most likely west and that it should be sought among those closest to it that they should seek out employers and perpetrators amongst them and that among his closest associates are those who profited most from his murder. Those who swear to Zoran Djindjic, interestingly, never wanted to be seriously involved in his murder, were never interested in investigating how it was possible that two men who were accused and declared guilty of his murderers were practically killed in Meljak without one of them, even though you say they were tough killers and criminals, without firing one single bullet without giving any resistance. What's even more interesting is the huge amount of money they've had available and that they've come up with by selling drugs has never been found. Of all their wealth, there was practically nothing left, none of those who were killed were found, neither found nor later, nor found until Schiller was destroyed so that those money was probably found on one side, and on the other hand to destroy evidence and video of those who hung out with them, those who brought women and children to CZ with Djindjic's murderers. We from the SRS, though our president announced when he went to The Hague, how Zoran Djindjic would end up, because it was obvious. You know, our people say, "Whoso is the sword of the sword, by the sword, and who suffers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51819	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Vojislav Seselj: Repeat the vote. ) The vote for this proposal is repeated. They say I'm too fast. Here you go, MP, if you have any objections, you're welcome to tell me. For me, all MPs are equal. (Vojislav Seselj: I do not now.) ) I conclude the vote: for – 25, against – no one, abstention – anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I accept my mistake. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during the 2016 elections for MPs in the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51820	Ladies and gentlemen, another obviously painful topic for you sitting and representing the ruling parties, but also for part of the pro-Western opposition. Since 2000, virtually every election has been marked and branded with certain irregularities and many political parties have been saying that elections will be irregular. However, neither you nor your predecessors have done anything to ensure the full regularity of the election. The elections held in 2016 were no different from those, I suppose, which will soon be held and then these elections were followed by many controversy. One of them is that the MP group, or Dveri list -- the DSS didn't have enough votes to cross the censorship. It has come to the RIK that you from the SNS, which was the most numerous, vote to cancel elections in certain polling stations, so that the pro-Western opposition in the second round completely unregulatoryly unites and allows those lists to be found in the National Assembly. It wouldn't have been so controversial if US Ambassador Scott hadn't played the most important role on election night. It was he who pressured both the government and the opposition, and it was he who directly decided which electoral list would cross the census and from which the lists of MPs would be found in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We heard that from the highest representatives of the Republic government. We heard that from the opposition who met with him. It's something that definitely casts a shadow on the entire election process. It's amazing that you're talking to each other about how you want fair elections, saying that you want these things never to happen again, and that you're voting against the formation of a polling committee that would precisely determine the facts of everything that happened on election night and on election day itself, and that would ultimately allow such things to not be repeated in the future. I hope you will really show democratic capacity now, if you have it and vote in favour of the SRS proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51821	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51822	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been waiting 28 years for the fighting population to finally pass the Fighter's Law. You know that this is a special category, a category that deserves national recognition in any case, deserves to be respected in society, and deserves to be respected by the MPs. You saw a month ago in our public, in the paper, an article appeared by a journalist who spoke about the Fighter Act. Right after that, positive comments followed. That journalist, looking at the laws in the procedure, took this very law that I wrote. He didn't pay attention that it didn't come from the government, but that it came from the individual. The minister denied the same evening that it was the law and that the law the government is proposing is not in the process, it is in the draft and has not yet passed a public debate. This law I wrote was not at a public hearing, but was held at a professional hearing at the Ministry of Defence, at the Army General Staff and was not publicly held by anyone. Since there is no other law, since it is not known when the draft of this law, which has not yet seen a public debate, will see the light of the day, since usually this Law on Fighters is passed at the end of the term of a certain assembly and usually passes, is not passed, but is waiting for some next assembly to do so. Gentlemen, I think 28 years is a lot. I appeal to your responsibility to vote for this law to be found on the agenda, which would finally correct the injustice against the people who, when asked by the state, stood up for their country's defender. Many of them have given their lives, many are disabled today, and others are thinking about their country, which instead of rewarding them with one of these laws, which simply punishes them, is humiliating that in the congregation, this is the 11th time I'm proposing this law, they won't even discuss it. I'm not saying this law is great, but anything that's missing could be improved by amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51823	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 30 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51824	At the time this law was passed, the SRS insisted on what we're looking for today through this supplemental proposal, the amendment of this law. In fact, what we assumed would happen then is happening today, and today we are witnessing various abuses with the adoption of children in Serbia, especially by the adoption of children by persons who are not citizens of Serbia, i.e. the adoption of children and the taking of children abroad. You see how crowded the media has been for months of various examples of how many social services, the ministry, individual employees, etc. they abuse this institute by allowing children to be literally sold. Children from Serbia are sold abroad, under such or such an excuse, and all of this in the form of adoption, in accordance with this law that we want to change, and when that child leaves Serbia, nothing more than the law can apply to that child because there is no more control over what's going on there with that child, which is why someone literally bought it here, whether it's turned into white slavery, whether it's made of such children by future criminals, prostitutes, etc. So, the ministry has to seriously consider this proposal, and not only this, there are other members in this law that need to be changed urgently, not only when it comes out in the media, but then each minister is praised in particular, what he has done and what the ministry is doing and to improve the birth rate. Here, this is one of the contributions that those children left behind by parents for these or those reasons should stay in Serbia. There are many who are willing to adopt such children in Serbia, and they are better at these collective centres in Serbia than to lead them around the white world and no one knows what is happening anymore. The question is how many irresponsible parents participate in this and how many government officials participate in this and how many employees of the Social Labour Centre participate in this. If you are honest in that application of your strategy, then vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51825	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 20 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Vjerica Radeta's MP suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51826	When Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic were tasked with legalising and preserving the mandates that the advances stole from the Serbian Radical Party at all costs, they did something that was absolutely inadmissible – they hired the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court then made an unconstitutional decision to have the mandates available by MPs. We suffer the consequences of that today. We still have the consequences of this in the National Assembly today. In this session alone, we have MPs, and it's actually hard to call them that, in fact, they've walked through at least three parties. And this really has to stop, if it really wants this parliamentary democracy to develop and it's finally starting to work at some more serious level. We have suggested adding point 9 to Article 88, and that literally what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we should say, if it leaves, that the MP ceases his mandate, among other things, if he leaves the political party on whose proposal he was elected as MP, if he has made his mandate unrevocably available to the political party on whose proposal he was elected MP before the election. Therefore, the MP must be given this constitutional right to make his mandate available to the party from whose list he is elected, if that is what the MP wants. If there's an abnormal party that would put on the list someone who doesn't want to sign that statement, it's his problem, but it's just amazing that someone so abnormal exists, because what comes out of that abnormality is the most terrible immorality and corruption. There is no more immoral in political life, there is nothing more immoral than stealing a mandate. As long as you don't accept this proposal and as long as it's like this, a radical law that, I repeat, is the result of the political compromise at the time, it's going to happen. We don't even know how much we have today, I don't know, 14 parliamentary groups, tomorrow we have 12, the day after tomorrow we have 17, we have MPs who didn't participate in the elections, we have MPs who didn't exist when they were called and these last elections were held, and it has to end. You must also accept these changes so that MPs are not determined in a predetermined order, as this also leads to major problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51827	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 20 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – the draft law on placing out of force of the Labour Act. Here you go. Not Momcilo Mandić, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. He's not here. ) (Vojislav Seselj: There he is. I have to sanction you. It's not gonna happen. Then he doesn't have a card. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ms. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session's agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51828	Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was immediately followed by a new Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Since that period, 12 years have passed and Serbs from Republika Srpska, Serbs from Montenegro have a problem because of the fact that one member of the law, which we are asking to change this change and by supplementing the law, prevents them from allowing the citizenship of Serbia, which they so wish for, and which we have given them the opportunity to obtain it through the recognition of Serbia as their mother country, that citizenship is waiting for Serbs from Republika Srpska for a year and a half to two years, and somewhere even more. The period from 2013 to today, more than 50,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have requested Serbian citizenship. It's mostly young people. What are they doing that for? First, and that is the basic reason, because of the huge love for its country of origin Serbia, because everything that happens in Belgrade, in our capital here, everything that treats Serbia as its key issues, and above all the preservation of KIM and everything else we face, Serbs from Republika Srpska survive and experience that it happens to them, their country, although they are still an entity in BiH, but with a desire to one day become part of a single Serbian state. That is why there is no need, ladies and gentlemen, for this law to prevent them from gaining that citizenship as soon as possible. We believe that all changes for whoever is the applicant for Serbian citizenship are made, and the Serb is from Republika Srpska, from Montenegro or from the diaspora, and other former Yugoslav republics, which recognise Serbia as their country of origin, as our law requires, are sufficient for six months. This would, first of all, allow young people in Republika Srpska to have the right to work here, to work, to study, to exercise all the other rights they want to exercise. In the end, back in 199, the Federal Assembly then passed the Law on special parallel relations between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, and it really doesn't make sense that after 20 years they're tormenting. It was not even the birth of those children who today seek Serbian citizenship. On the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51829	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: it's for the 19th ambassador. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliament's Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51830	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic reason for submitting a bill on human organ transplantation is to abolish the so-called assumed consent of every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to be an organ donor in the event of death. The assumed consent leaves a large space for abuse and can lead to trafficking in human organs, although this bill prohibits any trade and constitutes a criminal offence. The amendments we have proposed relate to Article 23. The human organ transplant law, which we suggest authorities can be taken from a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia if he has declared to be a donor for life, not that we assume if he has not applied to the Biomedicine Authority. The Serbian Radical Party submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of Article 23. The Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities, as Article 23 fully disregards the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Article 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed human dignity is unimpeached and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it and everyone has the right to freely develop a person, unless it violates the rights of others. Article 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees physical and psychological integrity that it is uninjured and no one can be exposed to torture and humiliating treatment. We therefore propose that you accept these amendments to the law, because the Constitutional Court will certainly make the only right decision and confirm that Article 23. The human organ transplant law does not comply with Articles 23 and 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51831	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: 18 MPs voted in favour. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go. Sign up, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has been violently kidnapped by 19 NATO pact states, and some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM's borders to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born on KIM, who spent his entire life down there until a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. A team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should be no compromise on state territory, while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians. You can see that the Republic of Croatia also shows hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. So I believe that the adoption of this law, which I have proposed, will create clear assumptions...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51833	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 21 MPs voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51834	Thank you. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The Republic of Serbia has faced a large number of demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people who leave the country have been reported, so the share of the old population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse and many families are facing a lack of funding, which is directly held for the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial position of the family with children and to provide security for giving the country to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Financial Support Act with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. Financial support for families with children in terms of the exercise of the right under this law would help improve conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to achieve this on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which has been defined as the right to a child's parental allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child regardless of birth must be treated equally by all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. By extending the period of payment of the parental allowance: for a third child until the age of 18, instead of 10 years of life, for a fourth child to 18 years of life, instead of 10 years of age, and for the fifth and the next child for whom no parental allowance could be achieved until the age of 18, they would provide partial financial security to families with more children. As for the financial resources needed to implement this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money to pay off children's and parents' allowances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51835	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 21 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the greatest challenges of modern society today is certainly the fight against drug abuse. The adoption of the Law on Psychoactive Substances is of great importance because this law regulates issues that are of paramount importance to the health and life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Never again stories about the successful fight against this vice, drug dealers are arrested daily, new laboratories are discovered, large amounts of drugs are taken away, and drugs are never again on the Serbian market. The plants from which the drugs are obtained today are literally grown at every step, from home conditions, terrace, basement, garage, gardens, fields, meadows, etc., it is prepared in very dubious convenient and trained laboratories. These drugs are an unknown composition, and they're very dangerous. As far as consumption is concerned, it is mostly consumed in places with a specific elite, which are elite cafes, elite rafts, elite clubs, etc. The worst are those drug dealers who have school for the target group, i.e. the student population, a population without its own modality, which in search of its authentic identity, unfortunately, is not often able to resist this social pressure, the pressure of the environment or the group to try and thus risk becoming a consumer, and very often an addict. For all these reasons, production, transport, use, as well as storage, storage and destruction of drugs that are not for further use are very controlled. I asked my intervention to add a member who reads: “If there is a period between confiscation, i.e. the removal and destruction of psychoactive controlled substances for more than six months, re-sampling and qualitative chemical analysis are necessary." So the taken drugs are first sampled and then subjected to a qualitative chemical analysis. I have little time left to make an appeal to introduce on some national frequency TV channel a regular show to talk about this galloping monster of the 21st century, because as we have on various channels with national frequencies every day and every day some half-world in various realitys, we can also talk about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51837	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 20 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51838	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if there is a particular importance of agriculture in terms of economic and other crises, for two basic reasons, firstly, food production is less susceptible to crisis oscillations and secondly, by investing in agriculture, the development of several other industries, and in particular the processing industry and trade. We believe that there is much more to be invested in this area, both in the state, or in the resolution ministries, and local self-government itself, according to its capabilities. It must also be understood that different basics must be laid in agriculture, closely specialised production with clearly built quality, quantity and continuity, so that in the conditions of a large market, agrarianly highly developed environments are competitive. But, unfortunately, as I have repeatedly spoken and I repeat again, our villages are already empty, many households abandoned, and many villages without any residents, and few of them alive are mostly an ageing population. Workable younger generations are mass going to the city and abroad to ensure themselves a decent and normal life, such as in Serbia, unfortunately, are unable to afford. In particular, this trend of migration is expressed in smaller environments where low standards and inability to find jobs are present. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a draft law on incentives in agriculture, to which the resolution ministry should be approached with extreme seriousness and for a reason to accept. By adopting this bill, farmers of milk would be financially stimulated, where the same situation would be improved. We suggest that the lower limit of milk per quarter to which the premium is achieved is reduced, especially where the conditions are difficult, and production at a minimum, instead of the current 1,500 liters is reduced to 1,000 liters, thus achieving the right to a premium. In the same Article, paragraph 15 is replaced by the following: The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development suggests increasing the amount of milk premium from seven dinars per litre to 10 dinars. Then, in Article 18, paragraph 1. The law on incentives for plant production says the existing solution – that the amount of incentives per hectare of up to 6,000 dinars is increased to at least 9,000 dinars, thus showing that you care little about the village and the agricultural producer. Finally, not to forget, if our peasant is rich, Serbia will also be rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51839	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote. Your proposal received 23 votes, which is not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be completed with a point – a bill to put an end to the law on enforcement and security. The word is Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every call, and this one, in his term, passed the wrong laws, or laws that had very bad consequences for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, this law has not been passed in this assembly, it has been brought before, but we have estimated that it should be put out of effect and no other law applied in Serbia's territory has caused so many bad consequences for citizens of Serbia such as this Law on enforcement and security, and above all because of the introduction of public, in a people known as private perpetrators. They have done more damage to the citizens of Serbia than they have done to the elemental disasters. It should be noted that fewer executives are doing their job correctly and that this ends at the level prescribed by this law. A large number of perpetrators have come out of their limits. They say that because it cost 50,000 euros in pre-sales, and that they would return the investment sooner, they began to fine Serbian citizens, and that is why we have a big problem. We have analysed all the harmful consequences for the citizens of Serbia and have come to the conclusion that we are proposing to this House the adoption of this law. Today, respected colleagues are being targeted by private perpetrators of Serbia, and tomorrow, tomorrow, you, or all of us, can be you. I remember that at the end of this year, after the SRS proposal submitted, Jelena Deretic, an assistant minister of justice, told a daily paper – the law on enforcement and security will be amended by the end of the year, it is thought of last year, the perpetrators will no longer be able to savage, they will be reduced by powers, reduced rewards, etc. That is exactly why we are proposing that this Parliament be approached by amendments to this law. Just some headlines from the newspaper, the complete public of Serbia, the perpetrators sold them the house, kicked the children out in the cold in Kragujevac, a 170-square house sold by 5,500 euros, a 5,000-dollar debt grew to 70,000. In Nis for a 15,450-euro debt, property worth 800,000 euros was sold to them, in Belgrade a 570-square-square house for 13,000 euros, the contractor reported 1,200,000 profits for two years of work. Is that possible? Indeed, unless this law is put out of force, Serbian citizens will enter an even more difficult situation. This would also be a good opportunity when you talk about the future of Serbia or the president of Serbia when it talks about Serbia's future, to promise citizens that this law will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51841	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - 29 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Nikola Savic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks, with a request to be included in the agenda of this session. Namely, everyone knows that the problem with textbooks has long existed, but this problem has recently culminated because textbooks write everyone, betray each and every one of them. Instead of quantity leading to quality, it happened exactly the other way around, as if authors and publishers competed in who would do and issue a worse and more radical textbook. This is especially visible in those most sensitive areas, such as textbooks that treat national culture and national history. The current law is designed so that each school has different textbooks from different subjects, and even from the same subject in the same profession there are different students. We in the SRS are not for a single publishing house to have a monopoly in this area, even if it was state-owned, but we are certainly for the establishment of order here. Today, the monopoly in this area is known to hold publishing houses from Slovenia and Croatia, and they are slowly suppressing all other publishers such as the Book publishing office and other publishers. Today we have a situation, and you can all check it out, that we have textbooks that most drastically insult the public morale of Serbian citizens, so, let's say, in one math textbook for the second grade of elementary school stands a picturesque illustration, pay attention, where the girl washes her hands above the sink, whose tap has the shape of a male sex organ. Really, it's something scandalous. Two years ago, we had a situation where one publishing house printed atlas for children where the African continent was also shown in the form of a male sex organ. I really believe that for these and all the other reasons that I have listed here, there must be a law on textbooks, and I asked this law of mine to be made available to all publishers and to all the authors who are... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51843	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 22 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament of Tatjana Macura has proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. As I do not attend the session, I put the motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one is accessing the vote. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Vladimir Djuric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of pension cuts under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be completed at the point – the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former So Indija President Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a very important question, the Indjia municipality has a debt of 2,600 million dinars, to the 47,000 inhabitants, to the Indji municipality's debt, I repeat, 2,600 million dinars. We fell into debt slavery there. In 2007, when I was appointed as president of the assembly in the water management building, of course illegally, which showed the DS a high degree of democracy and the president of the most important and highest body in the municipality changed the management of water lines without quorum. It was a time when they were cleaning up ruma and some other places, when they were cleaning up radicals, and then, by the way, I wasn't yellow enough, so they cleaned me up in India on October 5th, 2007. That moment, India's debt was 50 million dinars. The obligations and debts of the Inji municipality at the end of 2007 were 50 million dinars after my shift. In 2016, after the change of government of the Indji municipality's debt and obligations were 2,600 million dinars. Recently, according to one construction situation, the Indji municipality received a judgment from Montera in bankruptcy, which was a yellow company building a sports hall in Indjia, and we received a 261 million dinar verdict. So it's just one construction situation for a hall that wasn't even completed in 2016, which was supposed to be over in 2009. From the University of India, she's been miserable. So, the hall that was supposed to be finished in 2009 and cost sixm euros, cost 11m euros and needs another twom euros to finish. We are now losing court disputes from the "Montera" in bankruptcy, from the yellow company, which has pawned its debt to banks. The Indian is threatened by debt slavery, and I don't know how we're going to part ways, because over the past year and a half, we've managed to settle the debt of 600 million dinars. During that time, while Indjija was falling into debt, Mr Jesic bought a 160m2 apartment in Vienna. The apartment is estimated to cost over 500,000 euros. Mr Jesic acquired a 200-square penthaus in India. Only the terrace was 45m2. By the estimate of his own... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51845	Thanks, time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and not the intended spending of funds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have another DS pearl. So, Dragan Djilas, the former mayor of Belgrade, who, like Goran Jesic in Indjija, is said to have stood by 1.16 billion euros. So it's somewhere over 130 billion dinars and it worked during the period he was mayor. He had various affairs, from Mosto to Adi, which was supposed to cost 116m euros and cost over 400m euros, had an affair "bulevar", underground containers, Bus-plus, pioneer cities, etc. At a time when he was in public office, he was making billions of euros in public sector, at the time of his firm, "Direct Media", "Emotion", "Multicom", over 500m euros. His profit was, he said, over 75m euros. So, at a time when Dragan Gilas was in charge of Belgrade, he was making abnormal debts, at the same time he was getting rich. At the same time, he made 500m euros. I ask myself and the viewers who are following this transmission -- how is it that someone who makes an enormous profit in the private sector, who makes 25m euros in assets, who earns 75m euros in cash, someone who earns 500m euros, how does this yellow tycoon at the same time make huge losses? I think it is time to start a polling committee and deal with this great leftist, as he represents himself, as he tries to build in Macedonia a coalition that is anti-state, with the intention of bringing down legal elected power by means of illegal means, with the intention of carrying out the revolution and coming back into power again and trying to re-sell the fog again for 500m euros, seeing that Belgrade has partly decommissioned and that a new chance to get its hands on the city and state registers. I think it's time for the survey board to seriously deal with Dragan Gilas, given that it's an alleged left-handed man, and I say he is a left-handed man, his tactics are roughly his left-hand-right pocket, and what the eye sees in his pocket. He objects to us building highways, and the only highway the DS built was in his private pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51847	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NRS polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and the non-intentional spending of funds. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected viewers, we were lucky to have Sashi Jankovic's mandate, the Guardian of Citizens, I would have told the protectee of the citizens, that he had protected himself with a high salary, that his mandate had expired. He entered a party called the Movement of Free Citizens, but also abandoned it by order of Dragan Gilas. At present, the party is run by a man, and I will dare say that he is a man, Sergei Trifunovic. So it's about a person who constantly insults not only the citizens, but also common sense. I will dare try to distract you and your fellow MPs, as well as the public on what that man is prepared to do. It's about a man who publicly said he'd be making a big and small emergency on our graves. So if someone wants to do it, he thinks political opponents should be liquidated first. It's a very dangerous person. I'm just going to try to quote in part, because what he said isn't for the public, it's not for the camera, it's not for the microphone, so I'm just going to partially try to quote everything that should be mentioned to prove that this person isn't a place in politics, in political life, that he belongs in a closed-type health institution. If someone says they'd beat the shit out of a pole and open a skull fracture to political opponents, then it's not politics, it's violence. If he said he'd iron a woman in the middle of Ban's Hill and how he'd share women a couple of beatings and someone would tell us who we were... If someone sends the Contravisions to the press, they'll destroy us, it's certainly not for politics. If someone says that Jews are supposed to walk with yellow ribbons, if someone says that President Adolf Hitler, if someone says that the president is not saying what, if someone says "Chanak is a smelly piece of junk and a fat dog", if someone says "I'm making a small emergency in your mouth", if someone says "I'll piss on your graves", if someone says "students, idiots", if someone says "we'll shit on your graves", if someone says, like Sergei Trifunović,...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51849	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NRS polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Serbia-related Lutrija affair with Djordje Vukadinovic. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51850	I think it's a survey committee for Mr. Gjorge Vukadinovic, better known as Gjorge Vlah. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a man who allegedly supports the Russian option, but also supports Gilas, and Gilas tells the US envoy at the American Embassy - and why there are no coups in America, a colleague of Lazani? Because there's no American embassy in America. So, Gilas goes and complains, and he is praised by Djordje Vukadionovic. He boasts that US envoy Jennifer Blasch has a strong anti-Russian stance and that this has led him into an unspeakable position in his own party, and he has also repeated this recently in Brussels. Djordje Vukadioovic supports Gilas, who has an anti-Russian stance, and Kobajagi Djordje Vukadioovic advocates the Russian option. Also, Djordje Vukadinovic has been running for his own time on the list of Vlaška national minorities. I think he's an insult to the Vlach national minority. The Vlach national minority, they say, is dealing with magic in some ways, but what magic does Djordje Vukadinovic do? How can someone who doesn't play lottery, and here's evidence, get two million and four hundred thousand at a time when Boris Tadic was power, when DS was power? Djordje Vukadinovic wants to represent himself as a fighter against the "yellow" as he says, a fighter for Russian interest, a fighter for a Russian stance, but here for two million and four hundred thousand he was willing to forget his love and cash it. That's real magic. You don't buy a single fortune, and you get two million and four hundred thousand. I think it's more about the Vlach magic and that Gjorge Vukadinovic is a miracle worker. Also, Gjorge Vukadinovic is very bloodthirsty. The last time he made a statement about hanging from the terraces, while the opposition was wearing hangers with a message that they would hang us, shoot us, etc. Djordje Vukadinovic advised Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic not to hang us on the terraces because they hang patriots there, and we should be hanged elsewhere. So I think it's time to deal with this fake Vlach, the fake lottery winner, the guy who didn't buy the lucky one, and got two million and four hundred thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51851	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "winetown" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Does the MP, Marijan Risticevic, want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable viewers, half an hour ago Mr. Zivkovic was in the hall of the National Assembly, and reportedly boycotting the work of the National Assembly, holding a press conference and fellow MPs, I am asking for a little attention, I was in part attending this press conference, the alleged work of a parallel Parliament, people who boycott parliament, but are not boycotting the state register and the National Assembly register. That man, that MP, said he was sitting here with a hundred sick MPs. So the man with the diagnosis shared a diagnosis. I don't agree with that. I think you're all medically capable of carrying out your duties as citizens have given you. The fact that they avoid and boycott the work of the National Assembly doesn't boycott the restaurant, not boycotting the cash register, it's an honor to them. Their voters need to assess that. The truth is, this is my medical conviction from January 12, 2019, signed by a committee of five doctors. They found that I was capable, that I was capable even of holding arms, of carrying weapons. And Mr. Lazanski certainly knows better than this he doesn't need. So, I can go into the army now, and God forbid, I'd be happy to respond unlike a coward like Zoran Zivkovic. But here is the belief of Zoran Zivkovic that the report by the medical board, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, fell due to a neuropsychiatric examination. I will dare say so, since he says you are all sick, including the President of the Republic and Ministers. It is said that based on data and objective medical examination, recorded changes on an emotionally willing personality, an associative personality. No empathy for human feelings and social moral values. In conclusion, it is a psychopathic person who is incapable of carrying arms and performing public functions. So, the one who respects us for some kind of disease, I'm not saying he's sick, but that he's not capable of carrying weapons, performing public functions. So, Zoran Zivkovic, if I were him right now, I would resign for moral reasons, given that for months and years, the highest number of officials in the state has been called out, and today it has been determined that 100 MPs are in the O.R., that they are patients. So, I think it's time for the polling board to deal with "winetown," but to be doctors in that survey board, there are psychiatrists here, to assess Mr. Zivkovic's psychological and psycho-physical state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51853	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former rural secretary for sport and youth, Marinika Tepic, and the non-intentional spending of funds. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are all witnesses that for weeks what he calls himself to the Serbian opposition, and I would say the unfortunate men who walk around the city of Belgrade are rudely insulting, threatening violent change of government. This is the cover of the Marinika Tepic profile. Take a good look, this is her cover photo, and if the viewers can see, it's about breaking the skull. So she probably made her wish. The bust is made of casts and the character is Alexander Wolfich. It breaks his head with a sledgehammer. I ask you, what normal MP can do this, put on his profile photo any skull, and this is about the President of the Republic, or his character on the bust? So, what healthy and normal person can put his profile photo on their own, I guess, his desire to break a skull with a mallet? That's what Pavelic's Ustashas did, but it's not normal for someone in Serbia to want the same thing. Also, she is a woman who honors all fascism, and in doing so, the fascist method of liquidating political opponents puts her profile picture. In doing so, he walks with Bosko Ljotic, someone tells us that we are fascists, and he walks with those who would shoot, to hang, who would rape, while a number of her colleagues belong to the unit, the Fifth, what is called the Bosko Ljotić volunteer squad, who shot citizens in Kragujevac in the 40s, and among them also students. Also, Marinika Tepic, as a circuit official, acquired a 200 square-square apartment. She's got an apartment in Pancheva 100 square meters, and she's got a 200 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-place apartment, and I believe that's what needs to be checked. It has transferred 6.7 million to Dusan Jakovev, a province official, NGO leader, 6.7 million, believe in a project called "Sex for beginners". The beginner's sex was given, I don't know who was the promoter, who was doing practical exercises, but for the beginner's sex...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51855	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement of the then state summit, headed by then Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51856	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while my colleagues who boycott the work of the National Assembly, paid by the National Assembly of Apartments, paid by travel expenses, pay personal incomes, until they perform their duties, I will try to work for my verbal performances and for them. The National Assembly when it works, it works on behalf of all 250 MPs. We who hold the quorum here, we here who are currently performing, we represent the National Assembly, we represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we represent our voters and their voters who are yet to think about who they support and who they are worth voting for, since they can be remembered tomorrow after new elections, which they are running from, to boycott the work of the National Assembly again. Bosko Obradović "Dveri" entered the list, that is a man, Mr Martinović, who is being paid an apartment at the Dedinj National Assembly, so that he can perform his post as head of the National Assembly's MP club, giving him a salary of 100 and a few thousand dinars, paying the apartment on Dedinj, and Mr. Bosko Obradović boycotts the work of the National Assembly. But the salary and the grandfather doesn't happen. He says he's an anti-communist. Well, only communists attack Santas like that. So, he saw Dad Milisava, who was the last party secretary in "Hydrogradnja" in Chačka, saw that he also carried out one attack on Dedinje, so he decided to boycott the work of the National Assembly, but definitely signed up for travel expenses. Then, Ivan Kostic "Dveri", after his leader, Marija Janjušević, better known as the Masanka, third-degree master, from India, certainly cares about charging her 2,000 dinars, although boycotting the work of the National Assembly. Sanda Raskovic Ivić also signed up, Gorica Gajic, Miroslav Aleksic, Aleksandra Jerkov, of Novi Sad does not miss the chance to kill three, four thousand dinars plus salary today, Vladimir Djuric, Veroljub Stevanovic, Radojevic Nemanja. Tomislav Zigmanov, of all honours, is here, and I must give Mr. Ševarlic a confession, which performs its parliamentary function, unlike these here. I mean, as far as Zoran Zivkovic is concerned, that we should check out the privatisation of the tobacco industry, why instead of 1.2 billion, as assessed, all for 400 million dinars were sold, and the factory also sold smokers with the view that no one else can build a factory for three years, I guess until they pay off their investment. Also, you have to ask why he kicked the man off the train just because he spoke English, because today I think he'd be out of the train because someone doesn't speak English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51857	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51858	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Boris Tadic, better known as Boris Leprechaun, is a man who has been active with Vuk Jeremic and his team working to build Kosovo statehood. I think we should form a committee of inquiry and pay attention, as some would say, to this traitor or high treason, and I'll tell the unfortunate. So that's the man who was changing the country for the chair. He wrote off part of the country because of the chair. First, he let Montenegro separate. I argue that this power was then in power, if these parties had ruled, that Montenegro would never be separated. I, Montenegro, no matter what she put her statehood into the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, even in later SFRY, I consider her a Serbian state, regardless of the current state. My advice to the Serbian parties is to fight for their position and to seek their representation in the public sector with one-third of what they are currently doing in the population. I believe that this moment will no longer be of interest to the Serbs to the charity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the man who gave up a piece of his country in 2008 because of the chair. Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic made clear before the US Embassy's presidential elections that they have nothing against the declaration of Kosovo independence, but that Albanians in Pristina only do so when the presidential elections are over, so that Boris Tadic will defeat Tomislav Nikolic. The US Embassy influenced Albanians, on February 14th, Boris Tadic took an oath, unfortunately for us, to be president of the Republic for the second time. Under the deal, February 17th, Boris Tadic, whom many would call a traitor, and I, the unfortunate, Boris Tadic, experienced that on November 17th, three days later, Albanians and did what he agreed with them and declared independence. After that, Boris Tadic flees to Romania. I think it is time to educate the polling committee and examine these facts, given that with this kind of policy it continued, that it replaced the United Nations Resolution, that it eliminated KFOR, that it introduced the EU and thus eliminated the influence of Russia and China on the process of decommissioning the state, that it tried to prevent us from achieving statehood throughout our territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51859	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to pick up where I left off. So after February 17th, it was agreed with Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and Boris Tadic, to declare independence in Pristina by Kosovo Albanians of the fake state of Kosovo. So, after that, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, the Wolf descendant, continue their activities in building a wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. They are changing the resolution with Catherine Ashton, changing the UN resolution and thus trying to strengthen Kosovo's independence. After that, they demand the opinion of the International Court of Justice. You were all witnessing that Thaci boasted that independence was won thanks to the International Court of Justice and the opinion requested by Vuk Jeremic. This happened at the Security Council session, and you all had the opportunity to hear that Thaci praised Vuk Jeremic, or said that their independence was in line with the International Court of Justice's opinion, which was sought by Vuk Jeremic, then, to our misfortune, foreign minister. I think it was a continuation of the activities of Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic, what they agreed at the US Embassy right before the 2008 presidential elections. Today, Vuk Jeremic is a member, in my opinion, of the Muslim brotherhood. You are all witnessing that recently Muhammad Cengic of the Muslim Brotherhood performed so that he commended Vuk Jeremic again. Thaci, so Cengic, was praised by Vuk Jeremic, who promised them that the state of Serbia, Mr Martinovic, would pay 300 billion war damages to BiH, possibly to the Muslim-Bosnian Federation, from which 500,000 Serbs disappeared. The Serbian people are accused of ethnic cleansing thanks to such people as Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, although the most brutal was cleaned by over a million Serbs from the territory of the Bosniak-Muslim Federation, 500,000, from Sarajevo alone, and Sarajevo was the largest Serbian city in BiH. Muhamed Cengic praises him and says that Vuk Jeremic, when he comes to power and says – you Chetniks will know that Vuk Jeremic will come to power, that he will annul Republika Srpska at the moment. I don't think he should be allowed to do that. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51861	Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51862	I thought I had three minutes, but I can keep going if...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51863	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is also about our regrets about the former defence minister. I think that after Zdravko Ponos, he is the most responsible that Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, who was the adviser to Boris Tadic, until he became minister, and while we're at it, we're also asking Sutanovac, Jeremic and Tadic -- who killed the guards at the Karas military facility? Those who honor us that we are responsible for the murder of Oliver Ivanovic forget that they released 2,108 Albanian terrorists and that probably one of these Albanian terrorists pulled the trigger and killed Oliver Ivanovic. They accuse us of everything the Albanians accuse us of. I have not seen more co-operation between Thaci and Haradinaj, on the one hand, and Veseljje, and on the other hand, Jeremic, Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Djilas, co-ordination and co-operation. We are accused of doing what the Kosovo Albanians probably did, those who have arrested Oliver Ivanovic, who have tried him for years, those who have arrested him again, and this is about the Kosovo Albanians, probably killed him, and these unfortunates who have been boycotting the work of the National Assembly want Albanian sin to be attributed to the current authorities, although in 2001 they released 2,108 convicted Albanian terrorists, let them go free, and probably that they committed those crimes, probably that they are responsible for the yellow house, and they like everything that is yellow, they probably took out the Serbian organs, and today they are skillfully hiding it. So, I believe that the Sutanovac, whose time has lost 700 armored vehicles, the artillery tools are gone, the engineering funds are gone, a lot of equipment is gone. Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vuk Jeremic, have made a well-armed army. So, a small and well-armed army with the aim of being no force and that our national and state interests, if necessary, cannot be defended by military means. I think we should start a polling committee, because instead of being a military neutral state, this team, which robbed the country along and across, which fired 400,000 people, left them out of work and dearmed our army and instead of a military neutralized our army. I think it's time for the board of inquiry to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51865	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and Storm. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51866	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's about a person who's changed a few parties, but I don't mind. From the Croatian SDP, through Micun's Democratic Centre, Kostunica's DSS, through one of its parties, to the party of the unfortunate Vuk Jeremic, who supports the Muslim brotherhood. I ask the DSS members, who these days through Slavia are trying to defend Prizren, who was their bearer of the list? Do they intend to apologize, given that Sanda Raskovic Ivić is currently a member of the People's Party of Vuk Jeremic, a man supported by Muhammad Cengic, who is supported by the Muslim Brotherhood, who is financed by the Muslim Brotherhood of the Catharic Embassy? It is time for the DSS to apologize because their organisation, with the support of their voters, sent her and Boška Obradovica to parliament. I think they owe us an apology. I don't object to some of them getting Sandy on the coat. So Sanda Raskovic has the right to wear a coat. I don't care if she bought it from Zoran Zivkovic or if a Martian helped her with the yelling. So it's her personal thing. What bothers me is her statement, and that's why I think the board of inquiry should deal with it, because it's very harmful to our national interests. If others will determine what our national interest is, if it will be determined by Letica, if it will be determined by the Croats, then it is not our national interest. So she said in a duel on television with Letica, before whom someone had previously said that his grandchildren were Croats, etc., I'm not going in, but she said that there was genocide in Srebrenica. She did not respect the decision of the National Assembly. She's a folk MP. She was under obligation, because when the Resolution was brought here, and it was declared a major crime, which I agree with, but it was also a major crime committed against Serbs around Srebrenica, everything that happened around Srebrenica in three years has happened to me in Srebrenica in three days, so those who made the victims on one side have experienced a sanction I wouldn't want, but the victims have to be equal. Sanda Raskovic Ivić broke the National Assembly document and called Srebrenica genocide. Also, Sanda Raskovic Ivic said that the storm that killed thousands of Serbs, hundreds of women, dozens of children, has dared to say that the storm was a humanitarian action.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51867	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to Minister Sasa Radulovic's economy. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radulovic, who led 14 firms into bankruptcy, certainly contributed to the fact that these unfortunate people who did not take care of the wild predatory privatisation were welcomed by bankruptcy managers. What the yellow ones missed, it was welcomed by the bankruptcy directors and he was king of bankruptcy, he had 14 bankruptcys. I'm asking you, can we here today who are present at the same time be present in 14 parliaments? Can anyone currently in the field be in 14 fields? Of course he can't at the same time. Sasa Radulovic is a phenomenon, he managed to run 14 bankruptcys at the same time and in all 14 bankruptcys engaged his firm for bookkeeping affairs, thus entering a conflict of interest and therefore some bankruptcys were taken away from him, and was punished in court several times because he abused the position as a bankruptcy manager. Sasa Radulovic is a friend of Milojko Pantic. It's a scandal. Milojko Pantic, Djilasov, and a friend of Radulovic, who is now with the party Rasulovic, says -- Kosovo and Metohija are not the heart and soul of Serbia, it is a false nationalist invention. They're the ones who walk every Saturday. Our viewers need to know what's being said at these gatherings where, according to Seselj, Saturdays attend. Saturdays, a special kind of unbelievers, so he says -- Serbia set the warfire on fire, destroyed Yugoslavia, and then allowed Kosovo to be the cause of the bombing of allies from both world wars. That's what those who gather every Saturday say. Also, justifies Milojko, after this I'd say crazy, justifies NATO bombing our country. He accuses Serbia of the collapse of Yugoslavia and said Kosovo has long since been Serbia. That's probably what Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic told him what they did in building a wild state in Kosovo. He says Milojko, or as Atlagic says crazy -- Serbia set the warfire on fire, destroyed Yugoslavia, and then allowed Serbia to bomb allies from both world wars for Kosovo. I think this kind of show has to get in the way. We cannot allow, and I will continue to say, that the Croatian political parties, the Bosniak political parties, are coming here and are looking for a revolution in front of the National Assembly. That's why I think we should educate this committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51869	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the Municipality of Smederjevska Palanka Radoslav Milojic and the non-intentional spending of funds. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51870	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, heineken, Kena, better known in the Smederjevska Palanca as heineken, is certainly a participant in the protests. They have the right to protest. Everyone has the right to protest, but in 90% of cases, it's not about random citizens who are unhappy. It's about the infrastructure of political parties who think democracy is a power without a choice, that dictatorship is to win the elections and win the power. The voice of the people is the voice of God, and behind them the voice of the people is not worth anything, nor are they fighting for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago in Belgrade, their leader, who belongs to the party Borko Stefanovic, is called Anasonovic, who is 25 years old, who is still a student, in my day it ended by the age of 24, but apparently it now takes a little longer, but my God, take a good look at this photo, Mr. Atlagic, to see who's being funded – the poor student wearing a "Bobana" backpack, is a price of 105 euros. My dear students, the ones who were attacked by Sergei Trifunovic, and this is the jacket, show that first photo, that's the second, first, that jacket, that jacket is "The Bognjat", cost 195,830 dinars, that's EUR 1,655 euros... The lady is well-trained and trained. I couldn't see what the stamp was for my shoes, but it was definitely dressed, and I already said why there were no coups in America, no U.S. embassy. The lady was glued to the traffic lights, and she could have caused a tragedy. She needs to make an account for it, so let the American Embassy pay her. She was glued to cars. Everyone who drives, we know what trails the sticker leaves. I think it's a take-off, etc. She's supposed to pay for it or the American Embassy. Look at this car. These are hooligans like those worst fans, hooligans, saboteurs who have been harassing citizens for days who don't want to join them. It's about defeated political infrastructures. (President: Time.) ) So, I think, and here it is, the third secretary of the American Embassy and Mrs Anasonovic, Gilas, a member of the Left-wing Borko Stefanovic in a hearty conversation and planning action with the US Embassy's third secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51871	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 11 votes against – no one with abstentions is there. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated to the pre-election campaign. Does the people sent by Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51872	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, campaigns are a strange thing. I don't mind being tolerated, but the campaign in Serbia takes days. They won't go to the election, but they have all the elements of the election campaign. They have support not only of a foreign factor, Macedonia etc. They don't only have the support of Thaci, Happy, they don't have the support of Haradinaj. They have all kinds of support. This is the man who's threatening a coup. It's a machine. So, automatic rifle for us. I think it's time for the authorities to deal with it. This lady's name is Katarina Peovic, head of the Workers' Front, candidate for president in Croatia, against the candidate for you, dear Colinda. So, Katarina Peovic, who was here in front of the National Assembly last Saturday, ran along with the deluded Serbia, Gilasovci and the team, Bosko Obradovic, must have come through Pernar, and I ask the voters of Bosko Obradovic – will you continue voting for this? This lady, together with Boska Obradovic, called in front of the Assembly – Croatia, Serbia, the revolution. Why doesn't Bosko Obradović go with Pernar, and I expect him to sing with them and that Thompson soon, why don't they go and raise the revolution in Zagreb? How long will they raise the revolution in Serbia? At a time when Serbian athletes in Split throw off the waterfront, as they say, from the promenade, to the sea, when they have to prove that even if they are Montenegrins to let them survive, to honor Montenegrins, I would never do it, but, behold, there are those who say – I am Montenegrin, to save their heads, I don't blame them, but at a time when Serbian athletes throw into the sea, when they burn a Pupovac doll, wishing him good health, I guess they think it's cold, so when they do it in Split, when they do it in Croatia, and at the same time it's called "Serbia, Croatia, Revolution" in front of the National Assembly, it's an invitation to a violent change of power. Bosko Obradovic should be responsible and the authorities should, as they say, be deprived of freedom when we are arrested by grandmothers in Montenegro, I guess we too can arrest foreign citizens seeking a violent change of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51873	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51874	I hope I'm talking about organizations that visit the National Assembly here. It is a Bulgarian Ataka that wants to take part in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is welcome in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But to pick up where I left off. This is our party from Tuzla, this is Belgrade, seven or eight days ago, the party is called "Our Party", that's what it's called, but it's from Tuzla, it's their party, from Tuzla. A man who supports protests in Belgrade in front of the citizens' Tuzla, and I ask who killed that column of soldiers, which is the civilian Tuzla, when you apologized, when you apologized for that famous crime, not just for killing, for burning live soldiers in Tuzla? Have you ever apologized? Did you apologize for that setup at the Tuzla gate, which is why some of our officers were incarcerated? Never. But they came to support protests in Belgrade on behalf of the citizens' Tuzla. The man's name is Omer Berbic. He was a special guest of the "New Party", or Zoran Zivkovic. Zoran Zivkovic is fortunate to be able to get away with insanity, but Zoran Zivkovic did not just do so, all of her eternal friends joined in Serbia, the enemies said better. Here is Mesic, therefore, nothing is by chance, so they jump into Macedonia, so little Zaev, and then these appear here in the seat, but Zivkovic was in Tuzla, he says, because of harmony. He was in Tuzla because of harmony, and then these political parties from Tuzla came to destroy the constitutional order, to call for a revolution in Serbia. There are Nedim Sejdinović, who is still insulting. At the time of the protest, he says all Serbian saints had great plagues, along with West Todorovic, who insults the Holy Sava. So, how long are we gonna take? I'm intolerant. Serbia alone hasn't changed its ethnic composition, it's good, and it's accused of ethnic cleansing. Then these multiethnic ones come and say Serbia is a fascist state. I can't agree with that, so I think this should be examined in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51875	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the real estate affair in "Belgrade on Water". Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Balsha the miracle worker, with a salary of 100,000 dinars, goes on vacation to Maldives, and then as he bites lobsters and sails yachts, where it costs 30,000 euros, and his salary is 100,000 dinars, in a dressing room worth 2,000 euros, bought in London's most expensive buttocks, he insults the poorer, the ones they fired. So, this is one of the participants of these protests, and here is the team from Zagreb, all with red flags in front of the National Assembly, who dared to call for the collapse of power, the revolution in Belgrade, and these are the comrades of Dragan Djilas, Boška Obradovic, Balša Bozovic and these Saturdays protesting in Serbia for days, wishing to bring down the president of the Republic of Serbia, who was legally elected with 55 per cent of the vote, where the nearest companion was almost 40% behind. Here is your favorite Katarina Peovic, who says – here we are working fronts traveling to Belgrade today to join protests that have been taking place on the streets of Belgrade and other cities in Serbia for weeks. So it's a very dangerous thing to question anyway. "Yesterday, I joined with members of the Workers' Front with protests in Belgrade, which have been for weeks, with friends from the left block," etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state must defend itself. I am not defending power, defending the state and its right to exist. I warned you for days that those who threatened us on the outside in the '90s and those who stole us in 2000, from 2000 to 2012 in Vojvodina until 2016, that they would join together, that they would try to return Serbia by putting those outsiders who threatened us to support those who stole us, to somehow reach the authorities and realise the goals above all in Republika Srpska and Kosovo and Metohija. We have to defend ourselves. I can't tell others what our national interest is. They say we don't have an international reputation and I'll quote one of their members. If our international reputation depends on letting the "yellows" rule and robbing us, if our international reputation depends on sacrificing our national interests in Kosovo and Metohija, if our international reputation depends on sacrificing our national interests in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to sacrifice our Serbs in Montenegro and the region, then we do not need such a reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51877	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, Star – the project and the unintended spending of funds from the agriculture ministry budget. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of Maria Janjusevic and the link with secret societies. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you were all witnesses that in the election of the government of Bosko Obradović, a friend of Pernar, a friend of Katarina Peović, a friend of Omer Begic, a friend of Vuk Jeremic, who is a friend of the Muslim brotherhood, you were all witnessing that he had fiercely criticised the Government of the Republic of Serbia, believing that there were two Masons in it. He's repeated it more than once in the media. I don't know if the Masons are good or bad. I never understood that secret society. The Serbian church and the Greek church have anthemed the Masons. I, as an Orthodox believer, have no interest in these secret societies. However, Bosko Obradovic criticised the government by saying that the masses were something evil, and all the while next to it was Marija Janjusevic, a Masanka, a master, a third-degree female. I have here a correspondence that dear sisters officers had and what they needed in their temple. So it's about people who have their own temple, and they need it: gold-gold angler and sixer, working carpet, hair, watch what the Masons, the Dairy, the Hammer, the Free builders use. At the time of the Democratic Party, all construction firms were free builders. They didn't build anything, they just kidnapped and took. They didn't make any highways. The only highway the Democrats made was the highway to their pockets, but the one that led to Gilas' pockets was a ten-track highway. So it was a one-way highway, with 10 lanes, that ran and carried the money only in Gilas' pockets. And the others were like that, the freeways, the normal highways, if they're normal highways that lead into those pockets, so they say they need one wooden hammer with a chair, a spear, a ceremonial master and two swords. They say the Masons, Marija Janjušević, say so - The skull is being purchased - I hope it was plastic and I hope they didn't think of any skull that belongs to one of us, since they're constantly threatening hanging, shooting, breaking the skull, etc. They say, they lack candles, candles, ropes, raw stones, stone cubes, cardboard, a little sword for pricking and a sword for the castle. So that's what's missing...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51879	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and the connection with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Alexandra Jerkov, a national MP who boycotts the National Assembly but does not boycott travel expenses, does not boycott the salary. For moral reasons, every congressman and every senator in the U.S., where she was visiting, to support Hillary Clinton, and when citizens were directed towards the Democratic Party in America, when they saw who came to support Balsha and Alexander Jerkov, they came to support Hillary Clinton, immediately turned their voices. Where the Democratic Party comes, it's an absolute loss. So, I don't blame her for going to support Hillary Clinton, who went to America, I don't blame her for supporting the couples, but I resent her, and I think there are moral reasons to resign - traveling abroad on behalf of the National Assembly, taking travel expenses that aren't so cheap, coming here, taking travel expenses, not participating in the work of the National Assembly, and that affair itself is sufficient evidence that she resigns. If you do not work today, you do not participate in the work, if you do not come to the factory and charge your travel expenses, every employer will fire you. We are the employer of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that in the upcoming elections, of which they flee as the devil of the cross, and of Alexander Jerkov himself, they will recognize it and punish them at the polls. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, during the discovery of the monument to King Peter, were most harshly insulting Serbs throughout Serbia. She did not give the right for Serbs outside Novi Sad to come and participate in the event and thus give recognition to their dead king. She argues that the decisions of the Great Assembly, she, the master of some European sciences, have not heard that there are European sciences, I have heard that there are sciences, but she, the master of European sciences. (Vojislav Seselj: Toma Nikolic is the protector of the Academy of European Sciences. ) So, Toma Nikolic graduated while being a member of the Serbian Radical Party, we found that but you were not present. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the person who brought in her biography that she's been through CIA training. Imagine someone who's been through BIA training, if he's an American congressman, and he writes in his biography that he's been through BIA training, what would happen to him? So, we suffer CIA training here, we put up with MPs who have been through these trainings and those proud of those entries, saying that joining Banat, Backa, Baranja and Srem, that it was a forger and that it is about counterfeiting and thus denying the statehood of the Republic of Serbia in all its territory. That's why I think the board of inquiry should deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51881	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of the municipality of Trstenik Miroslav Aleksic and the Fund for the Promotion of Citizens' Resources. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about a member of Vuk Jeremic's party. However, the party is some "renta-kar party" as it is called, the hour belongs to Tadic, the honour of Jeremic, but it is always Alexic who goes along with the political party. It's a folk messenger from Triestenik. Recently, with Bosko Obradovic, he broke into a police station in Guca, during elections in Luciani, and on that occasion attacked the police and the secretary of state, even dared to ask – what will the Secretary of State at the MUP, at the police station? It's like asking the bishop what he's doing in church, asking the patriarch what he's doing in church? So, this is, in my opinion, the same question – what will the Secretary of State of the Interior at the police station do? Where will he be if he's not here? When elections are, it's very sensitive. It is certainly the police's obligation to take care of order and peace, so that the elections pass in peace. So it's about Alexic, who went in there with Bosko Obradovic. He was the president of Tristenik municipality and here we see him with foreign ambassadors pushing him, because he wanted to be a minister of agriculture. It is a person who has been offered to us publicly to give him the place of Minister of Agriculture or the chair of the Committee on Agriculture in exchange for the transition to the ranks of the Progressive Party. Since the president of the party did not meet him, he has now become a fierce critic. Here is his interview "Time", which the citizens of Triestenik paid 144,000 dinars. So to pay attention to him, he paid for the interview from the municipal register. He also received 50,000 dinars in his NGO for cleaning leaves through the National Employment Service, led by his father-in-law in Trieste, and in that NGO, which received 50,000 dinars, he, his wife and father-in-law, had three members, giving his father-in-law 50,000 thousand dinars for tobacco to collect leaves in February and March. So it is Miroslav Aleksic for whom there are many affairs, where the construction of a gas pipeline without a building permit with his friend without public procurement, etc., where these are affairs that have been shaking for a long time Triestenik. This is about a person who was the director of the Public Communal Enterprise "Počevina". It's a village that had one employee, i.e. He had a broken truck and they didn't need a driver. So it's time to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51883	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - 10, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Sergei Trifunovic and the humanitarian organisation "Serve Life". Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time for the authorities to say, in the control of this humanitarian organization, what they found. So, to be clear, did what was written in the press, that money, instead of treating children, went to the funds that dealt with the cube? So it was also the Minister of Health of Zlatibor Loncar. Without a doubt, we want the competent authorities to provide us with information on whether it happened or not. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, actors have begun to act as politicians today. Sobotar politicians became actors, and actors became politicians. They run political parties, they make political speeches, and apparently they don't do it for nothing, because, knowing our actors, they don't do anything without what the young people say, money. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you all know who Dragan Bjeloglic is. It's the person who gave active support to the Saturdays. It is a person who, along with his colleague Koja, wants to leave Serbia, dissatisfied with the state's attitude towards them. So by 2013, the mentioned gentlemen had not received a single dollar or very little from the Serbian budget. From 2013 and 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated significant resources for filmmaking. Mr. Bjelogrlic won for the recording of three film 110,000,000 dinars. So, he won for shooting one movie 50,000, for shooting another 45,000 thousand and shooting the third film the rest. What was wrong with Dragan Bjelovlic when she awarded him a little more than two years' worth of 110,000,000 dinars? So that's about 900,000 euros somewhere. In doing so, one of the films is commercial. It's about "Montevide", a film he sold after RTS and charged again. So, since RTS is supported by citizens, then, twice, it's funded by citizens. Nikola Kojo for the film "The Stado" won 20,000,000 dinars. He's not doing well either. I ask you people's messengers: how many years should it take for you to be ambassadors from the state to receive 20,000,000 dinars? It takes you 15 years at least, provided you get your personal income in the National Assembly, and Nikola Kojo got 20,000,000 dinars, Bjelogrlic got 110,000,000, 115,000, Mrs Mirjana Karanovic got 35,000, Srdjan Golubovic got 30,000,000, and today they are active fighters, or people who are looking to bring down the statehood of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51885	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -14, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former president of Smederjevska Palanka Municipality, Radoslav Milojic, and not the intended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated for the election campaign. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the property of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former So Indija President Goran Jesic and the unintended spending of funds. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Balša Bozovic and related persons in the purchase of real estate in "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Miladin Ševarlic, Star – the project and the unintended spending of the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Aleksandar Markovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Serbia's Luttri affair related to Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. Members of Parliament Marko Atlagic under Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51886	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, a Bulgarian extremist party called ATAKA wants to take part in the Republic of Serbia and to join Bulgaria. The Bulgarian extremist party called ATAKA has applied to the Bulgarian parliament for Bulgaria in exchange for support of Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration to have the area around Bosilegrad, Dimitrovgrad and Strumica. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the extremist Bulgarian party was welcomed by Bosko Obradovic, the leader of Serbia's Dvora Movement and the president of the "union for Serbia's second downfall". It may not be surprising that Bosko Obradovic has hosted Bulgaria's extremist ATAKA party, which wants to kidnap the eastern part of our country, if it is known that Bosko Obradovic and his Dvori are continuing Ljotic's fascist policies. Such a policy of fascism has left Serbs as few people in Europe. Ljoticevics, whose policy is being advocated by Mr Obradovic, participated together with the Germans in the shooting of the citizens of the town of Kragujevac, especially in the shooting of students of the Kragujevac High School. So Bosko Obradovic hosts the ATAKA delegation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which parts of the Republic of Serbia around Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, sees its western province. The question arises whether Bosko Obradovic came down from his mind when he hosted the Bulgarian extremist organisation? Bosko Obradovic also hosted Ivan Pernar, who said that, I quote, the Serb genocide people and that the Serbs from Republika Srpska were not expelled but that they had left on their own; the quote ended. And Nenad Canak, called Gicoje, called as chairman of the Committee on European Integration, called for an international meeting in this home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of Pristina and Catalonia. National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia President Maja Gojkovic prevented it and stopped an unprecedented international scandal. That is why the formation of the polling committee is very necessary to determine the factual situation and, possibly, establish Bosko Obradovic's political responsibility, and I believe that the public prosecutor is busy on this Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51887	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find this proposal not accepted. Members of Parliament Marko Atlagic proposed that the agenda be complemented - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs of former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, and the unintended spending of funds. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Sasa Jankovic, leader of an international group of bandits called "Sale Prangia", purposelessly spent funds in 2016. That is why the NGO "the Council for the Death of Human Rights and the Fight Against Corruption" has filed a criminal report based on the DRI report. Jankovic spent 623 thousand dinars without a public procurement process and without a contract being concluded, contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Jankovic approved expenditures of millions and 8000 for the official trip abroad, without a public procurement process and a contract concluded, which is not in line with the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. Jankovic paid members of the Commission for the expropriation of worthless registrar material of a million 424 thousand dinars, which is not in line with the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. To pay the team, Jankovic spent 647 000 dinars without a public procurement process. On behalf of Saša Jankovic's cabinet, a new luxury jeep was purchased in 2011. Only a few months later, his wife Slavica bought from the same car house also a new jeep, the same model, but she paid much cheaper than the real price. The jeep cost 30,000 euros, and they paid him 18 grand. There is no doubt that a crime has been committed in the institution of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic. Therefore, I propose that a commission be formed to determine the responsibility of Sasa Jankovic. To inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the murder of Predrag Gojkovic, the latest news is that all archive material was destroyed, that it was destroyed by the archives of the city of Belgrade, and the president of the commission, believe it or not, was Branko Prpa. That is why I propose that a survey committee be formed to determine the responsibility of Sasa Jankovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51889	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find this proposal not accepted. Members of Parliament Marko Atlagic proposed that the agenda be complemented - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify facts and circumstances related to affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov and a link with foreign intelligence agencies and spy services. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51890	Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you remember Alexa Zunic, a happy spy, or legendary Nusic character in the satirical comedy "Suspecting face". Prost, as he was, however, realized that in the then Serb society, he was profiting from snitching. Alexa Žunić did not hide his rattling of a lucky spy, but openly boasted and represented himself. The question arises, was it the wish and the People's MP, Dr. Alexander Jerkov, when she wrote her biography on the largest Internet encyclopedia? In the mentioned biography on Wikipedia, a respected MP, Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, stands, quote – that several trainings have passed as well as several informal forms of education, seminars and training of the CIA on political engagement; finished quote. Perhaps the honourable MP, Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov, really has a desire to be the new Alexa Žunic today. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can you imagine an American Congress or Senate sitting in a congressman or a senator whose biography says that he has passed several informal forms of education, seminars and training in Russian Federal or Foreign Security Service. Such an opportunity would not have been given to run for Congress or the US Senate, but would probably have been arrested by the U.S. services and processed or vice versa. Is it possible that there's a Russian MP in Duma who's been politically trained at the CIA? This would likely be done after practical training in the Federal Security Service. There is no state in this world that would allow her MP to be a person who publicly boasts like Dr. Aleksandra Jerkov that she has completed the training of an intelligence service without being arrested, or processed. The question arises, what is the CIA's intention to train a Serbian politician and vice versa? What is the motive of our esteemed MP, Dr. Alexander Jerkov, to go to CIA training and training, if it is known that the intention of the CIA is to direct these politicians towards work for American interests? Therefore, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important that we form a committee of inquiry, to establish all the factual circumstances and circumstances regarding the training of MP Aleksandra Jerkov in seminars organised by the American CIA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51891	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify facts and circumstances related to the affairs of Maria Janjusevic and a link with secret societies. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51892	Dear Vice-President, the survey board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would aim to establish all facts and circumstances regarding Parliamentarian Maria Janjusevic's affair and its connection with the Masonery. In fact, MP Marija Janjusevic is a high-ranking masseuse member with a third-degree master's rank. There are 21 members of such rank in the Republic of Serbia. She founded and managed the Ark of the Library of Milice and has the rank of officers in Serbia's large box and is the president of the court of honour of the great women's lodge of Serbia. The head of the masserium in Serbia is Mr Tahir Hasanovic associated with the English service MI-6, whose agent he is. Some believe the honourable MP, Marija Janjusevic, is connected to MI-6. What is not good, which is that distinguished MP Marija Janjusevic has provided insight into the media databases of the NIN media for the purposes of masseuse, so that the Masons had insight into the services of the ministries of the Republic of Serbia, the state authorities, the authorities of local self-government, public enterprises, embassies and private companies and political decisions of the Dveri movement. If the Dvori are represented as a Christian movement and are called to Christianity, and in the copy of Marija Janjušević, it is said that there are Masonic rituals that include masseous sacred regals, dead skulls, ritual swords, which are pecking at the reception ceremony of new members, for whom Marija Janjušević was in charge, the Masons supported and ensured that our colleague Marija Janjušević became a national MP. Bosko Obradovic, through the Masonic Maria Janjusevic and the Mason, sought to provide support for the Masons and the English Intelligence Service. It is therefore very important to form this committee of inquiry, to see the link between our MPs and MI-6 and possibly raise their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51893	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and on "Storm". Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51894	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the esteemed MP Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, told a daily newspaper in March 2014 that, I quote – Srebrenica was a genocide crime, not a humanitarian action such as "Storm". It's a finished quote. It shocked not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with this statement, but also with the entire civil audience, and especially with the intellectual public. It is obvious that this statement by Dr Raskovic wanted to rock the Serbian people or made that statement out of her general ignorance. The honourable Parliament should know, and I hope it knows, because it is a university professor, in order to declare the crime genocide, it must meet three elements – firstly, there is one special purpose, a dolus specialis, it is necessary to prove the preparatory measures and the plan to implement it. Srebrenica had no such elements, especially the first – the existence of any intention. This has been proven in science, all scientific workers who have been engaged in genocide, especially Professor Vojislav Seselj. It is a crime to declare that "Storm" was a humanitarian action. The esteemed philosophy professor Dr. Zarko Puhovski, by the nationality of the Croats, said: "The storm" was an ethnic cleansing not only at the level of the grantovnica, in translation here which means catastra, but at the level of science, art and even at the level of toponomastics and onomastics. It's a finished quote. No wonder Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić's esteemed national MP speaks such an abomination, as it is the person who took about half a million dinars for a fee while she was in the Refugees' Commissioner. She is a Serbian patriot for personal gain, has nothing to do with Serbian patriotism. She was Serbia's ambassador to Rome, elected DSS official at a time when the party was in power, but remained until the end of the term, though Kostunica left power. It showed not only that she is not a patriot, but immoral, and she is particularly interested only in personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51895	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on it, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51896	Mr. Vice-President Boris Tadic, to correct Mr. Risticevic, not called beauty but a former Lipicaner, is responsible for declaring the fake state of Kosovo, since he has in time promised US Embassy representatives that he will not react to Kosovo's declaration of independence on condition that Tadic becomes president, i.e. to declare Kosovo's independence after his election as president of Serbia, i.e. After the election. Tadic fled Serbia to Romania when Pristina declared Kosovo's independence and called for peace from Romania. Imagine miracles. Tadic missed that on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity are guaranteed by the UN Charter, a lawsuit is filed against every single state that has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence on our territory. Boris Tadic failed to request an emergency session of the UN Security Council for violation of the Charter. His diplomacy practically gave up funds to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its own country. During recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, Tadic did not react, and Jeremic, called the Wolf, sent only an expression of disappointment to the organisation. Tadic unnecessarily disputed the issue of Serbia before the UN General Assembly first made a controversial motion for a resolution seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence and thus put a knife in the back of his own country. In 2008, Tadic staged a mission to the domestic Serbian public by EULEX on KIM past the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thereby causing invaluable damage to the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia and stabbed in the back with his own country. That is why it would be good, Mr. Vice-President, to accept the formation of a polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibility of former President Boris Tadic. Look at the wonders, the day before on television, in a television broadcast, former President Boris Tadic says he will fight by all means against the institutions of the system, not the authorities, but the system. He doesn't know what power is and what the system is. Let him read his father's book, and it'll be clearer for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51897	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the votes: there is no one who is abstentioned for – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Does MP Marko Atlagic want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51898	Dear Vice-President Vuk Jeremic, called Vuk Potomak, otherwise leader of the international gang of bandits, has already advocated the move of KIM talks from UN jurisdiction to the EU's power on the arrival of Serbian diplomacy in 2007, thereby causing invaluable damage to the vital and state national interests of our country. In 2008, Jeremic staged a mission to the Serbian public at KIM, past the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thereby causing invaluable damage to the state of Serbia, the people and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it was illegally declared in 2008, so-called The unilateral independence of KIM, Jeremic and his diplomacy did not knowingly take any effective action against the unilateral declaration of independence of KIM, and thus caused inconspicuous consequences for our country. In 2008, Jeremic deliberately raised an unnecessary question to the International Court of Justice - the legality of the KIM Declaration of Monostray Independence and thus caused unsightly consequences for the country and the national interests of our country. Jeremic, in December 2008, according to "Wikilix", said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Poe, that "the entry of KIM into the UN is the best that Serbia can hope for, if it is lucky", and ended up with severe consequences for the state of Serbia, which is why he accuses our President Aleksandar Vukic. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, that MPs form a committee of inquiry, to establish the facts and factual circumstances surrounding the treasonous activities of Vuk Jeremic, in order for certain authorities in this country to take certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51899	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. He didn't pass your proposal. Ambassador Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former province secretary for sport and youth, Marinika Tepic, and non-intentional spending of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51900	The esteemed National Assembly Chairman, Marinika Tepic, known as the "dove flyer", otherwise the future vice president of the future party, while serving as secretary at the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, is tied to certain illegal activities in the province's portfolio. In order to show her power, she reportedly has daily mobbing over employees and has carried out certain legal actions related to finance. She allegedly quit her employees, so she was brought up with multiple misdemeanor charges. She illegally allocated funds from the AP Vojvodina budget to sports associations that were not declared a sport of special importance at the level of the Republic of Serbia and to individual football clubs. The "Dinamo 1945" Fubodska Club from Pančeva and the "Sloga" Football Club from Temerin is particularly apostrophe. Mr. Darko Paražanin is said to have been fired, as he witnessed her illegal financial actions in funding sports organisations and clubs. In addition, it is claimed that hundreds of cases were found in the Regional Secretariat for Sport and Youth, for which there is no valid justification, did, and left a financial wasteland behind, and did not pay even the prize to the most successful young athletes, but therefore paid the clubs that played on so-called. concrete playgrounds. Furthermore, it is said that it has allocated budget funds along the political line, it has allocated funds to some clubs that did not exist at the registered address, as reported by the inspection. Therefore, the esteemed president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, is extremely important that we form an investigative committee to determine the illegal work of Marinika Tepic's future Vice President, Gilas' party, so that possibly the state authorities continue to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51901	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. Your proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement in the then state summit at the head with then-Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51902	The esteemed president of the National Assembly, according to a general assessment of privatisation during the DOS, was a robber. According to Michael Hudson, editor of Serbia's international press research consortium, 51 billion dollars were made out of the robbery privatisation. The tobacco industry Nis damaged the budget by 387m euros. According to former DIN workers, Filip Morris never paid 387m euros at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget for what DIN is. They claim that the factory was sold below the price and that the workers were damaged, as well as the tobacco industry for 160 million dinars. Dear MPs, in 2003, Mirko Cvetkovic signed a contract to sell 6.45 social capital. On behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Bozidar Djelic, the Duke of Meridian, attended the bank with 11 million. The real value of the tobacco industry was 1.1 billion euros. Zoran Zivkovic is suspected to have deeply immersed his fingers in these malfeasances and took a high commission, and then significantly increased his assets and increased property map. He is suspected of polluting his mustache and party counterpart Bozidar Djelic, one of the biggest European robbers, who destroyed the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore very important, respected presidents, to form a polling committee to examine the facts and circumstances related to malfeasance and the privatisation of the Duvan industry and the involvement of Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in an attempt, so that certain restrictions of the Republic of Serbia do their job further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51903	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Atlagic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Nenad Konstantinovic and the former organisation of the Resistance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51904	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the US CIA in Serbia formed a movement called Resistance, which headed the street overthrow of the legally elected President of the Republic and the authorities legally elected on October 5th, 2000. The resistance is organized and funded, instrumentalised and led by the CIA, the United States, England and Germany. In particular, it was assisted by NGOs and Deutsche Vele, who sent computers of press equipment and unlimited amount of paper. That's what they do today with these walkers in Belgrade. Hundreds of tons of paper with stickers have been provided – it is finished, tens of thousands of T-shirts with fist imprinted and squeezed, thousands of syringes for graphite, tons of brochures with propaganda material and a huge number of computers. Resistance received mobile and satellite phones, passwords – it was finished in millions of copies. That's what walkers do today. The resistance was trained by Western instructors in Budapest, Montenegro. Among them were the honourable MP Konstantinovic Nenad. The consequences of the Resistance on October 5th were very difficult for the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It was one of the biggest hits of parliamentaryism in Serbia's recent history. As you know, Members of the People's Parliament, Kostunica did not win the election, and Milosevic did not lose. The second round of choices was gone. Those who advocated the bombing of Serbia came to power on the street, and they are doing so now. They're not in this high house. They want to come down the street now and think about sending our president to The Hague like Slobodan Milosevic, but this time they won't make it. The leader of the opposition, Dr. Zoran Djindjic fled abroad. When they came to power, they did the crimes of our country, which is best described by Diana Johnson, who said – on the wings of the popular celebration due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who bordered with drunkenness Serbia was in the jag for power, Serbia was struck by the stampede of unprofessional, grammistic and arrogant people, the conceited leaders of fictitious parties of self-proclaimed experts of half-worlds of all calibers and profiles that promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the country for their hostages and prey. That's why it was extraordinary to form this Survey Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51905	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: seven MPs voted in favour. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please, before the next vote, to determine the quorum in the O.R., to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find there are 134 MPs present in the O.R. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Population, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on plant protection products and land processing agents, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Food Safety, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Protection, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, Proposal for a Law on Food Health, Proposal for a Law on Food Safety, Proposal for a Law on Tourism, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Constitution of the International Organisation for Civil Protection, Proposal for a Law on Termination of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Federal Executive Council of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to the Taxation of the Laws on the Laws on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia's Amendments to the Convention on the Republic of People's Amendments. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: 134 MPs voted against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the V.D. condition, its Article 157. When a democratic process takes place in the highest legislative body, two things are very important, that this process is essentially democratic and that it takes place in the way that even an uninformed observer could conclude that the process is indeed democratic. Here, both citizens and observers around the world are being violated, as is said and who is being addressed to the work of the National Assembly, as we are opposition MPs, as well as all other citizens and observers around the world, that you as a parliamentary majority do not care that the democratic process takes place in the National Assembly, that it is essentially democratic and that its appearance is democratic, because you are persistent in connecting the debate on various points of the agenda that each other has nothing to do with. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't be exhausting ourselves so we'd spend all our time on all the points of the agenda, but we'd only be choosing the most interesting ones, and you'd be able to do that if the Assembly had the look of a democratic parliamentary body.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51907	Time. Thank you. I'll take this as a suggestion since you haven't called for a provision...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51908	I called on Article 157 to be violated and I demand a vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51909	The vote will be if you're not satisfied with my explanation. According to article 157, which you have called upon, the Assembly decides by its vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51910	If your explanation is convincing, maybe I'll withdraw the remark...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51911	It is obvious that most MPs have decided to support the proposal of the MP who proposed the merger of these points. I don't suppose you're happy with my explanation, so we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51912	If you had just two more, three sentences, I might have been pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51913	Thank you. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motions for putting on the agenda the sessions of the acts, by emergency procedure and the proposals for addition. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137 MPs, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly thus established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda for us at the time that follows. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Central Population Register, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on plant-nutrient and land-mining products submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on plant protection products submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a Household Law, submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Tourism, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Constitution of the International Civil Protection Organisation, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Federal Executive Council of the Assembly of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes, with the Protocol, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group; 11. A proposal to appoint the general secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll continue at 14 hours and 45 minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear MPs, we continue today's work. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs who are interested in the discussion on the agenda points. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1) and Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Population, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on plant protection products and land processing agents, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Food Safety, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Protection, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health, Proposal for a Law on the Law on Food Health, Proposal for a Law on Food Safety, Proposal for a Law on Tourism, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Constitution of the International Civil Protection Organisation, Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Federal Executive Council of the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Malaysia on the avoidance of Double Taxation in relation to income taxes, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Convention on the Convention on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the promoters, or representatives of the promoters, since the government is a proposing, and the ministers are representatives of the government, whether they want to take a word. First Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51915	Thank you. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am extremely pleased to present today the proposal for a Law on the Central Register of Population, primarily because, as part of the overall reform of public administration, one of three criteria and our European integrations and, of course, through the prism of further modernisation of public administration, where we see the state as a partner and service of citizens, the adoption of this law will, of course, create legal assumptions for the establishment and management of the Central Register of Population by 1 September 2020. This is one very important newspaper in the modern and efficient state we stand for. It will connect practically and bring together data on the citizens of our country from 13 different official records: from the Register of books of origin, citizenship records, records of citizens' home numbers, residence records, residence records and temporary residence abroad, personal cards, travel documents, central register of compulsory social security, records and taxpayers, as well as the accounts of foreigners. The bottom line is that all these records are currently run by virtually different institutions through six bases: through the Home Office database, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Republic Geodesy Institute, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the Tax Administration and the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. This register will be virtually conceived as a executed register to overwrite the data from the original records and it is important to point out that it will only contain the last data, while the history of the change of data will be kept in the original record. It is therefore important for citizens to know that they will be able to verify their data and, if they perceive disagreement, be able to notify either the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government or the original authority, in order to take measures to correct the data and, of course, to obtain feedback on that matter. In this register, data will be found not only for citizens of the Republic of Serbia resident in the Republic of Serbia, as well as for our citizens without residence in the Republic of Serbia, but also for other categories of persons with specific rights and obligations under special laws. For example, refugees, asylum seekers, foreigners with approved temporary stay or approved permanent settlement in the Republic of Serbia, foreigners who have granted asylum or subsidiary protection and temporary protection, as well as foreigners who do not have permanent residence permit or temporary stay in the Republic of Serbia, who have acquired property or rights and obligations based on pension and disability insurance or the property of a taxpayer. This is the first time that data on citizens who are relevant to the exercise of their rights will be found within a single centralised and reliable state database containing accurate and up-to-date data on the population of the Republic of Serbia in electronic form. This enables, in practice, all state bodies, organisations, bodies and organisations of the autonomous province and local self-government, institutions, public enterprises, special bodies through which regulatory functions and legal and natural persons are entrusted with public authority to carry out tasks in their jurisdiction in a reliable, economic and efficient manner, based on centralised, accurate, up-to-date and reliable data obtained from one place, therefore, from the Central Register of Population. It should be borne in mind that this law relies primarily on the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which clearly define the obligation for authorities to exchange information free of charge on citizens who, of course, are necessary for a decision in a given procedure. Only the use of data from this register takes place free of charge, and citizens in the proceedings before the authorities will not have any costs in the exercise of their rights, nor will they spend their valuable time on obtaining such documents, but rather the state will do so for them. Of course, there is also an important platform "e-ZUP", as well as the e-Government Act adopted last year, which is practically infrastructure law, which allows us to step by step and now get to the Central Population Register. For the ultimate purpose of this, every citizen of ours will be satisfied with the services of different institutions, which is, of course, the aim of reforming public administration, because we want the administration to be a service of citizens and businesses. What's also important for the state, it's also making work cheaper, because the authorities themselves are going to download data from this base, so from the Central Register, at no cost. This register will also enable the efficient management of records conducted by the authorities in accordance with the regulations of its work, as well as monitoring the state of preparation of the report and the analysis necessary to carry out the work in the work of certain bodies. This advantage also goes in favour of the strategic direction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly better at creating public policies in different segments of our society. The management of the Central Register of Population has been placed in the power of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government from the aspect of administrative supervision, but what is also an inseparable part, this is the technical support in establishing this register to be dealt with by the Office for Information Technologies and e-Government, and for this very reason are all the financial resources for the implementation of this law within the budget of this office. It is important to point out that there will be the highest level of data protection and security in the Central Population Register to prevent any possible misuse of personal data. For the security of data at the highest level will be entrusted, of course, the Office for Information Technologies and e-Government, which will carry out technical support tasks in the establishment and management of the Central Register of Population, as well as matters relating to the conservation, implementation of protection measures and security of data in the Central Register. The authorities which have the right to download data directly from the Central Register will provide information on persons authorised to work in the register and to cooperate with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Office of Information Technologies will then verify whether that authority meets the technical conditions for connecting with the Central Register. After that, the minister responsible for the affairs of the state administration and local self-government determines a practical list of reception authorities, which will be published on both the Ministry's website and the e-Government portal. On the other hand, persons who will directly access the data will have the authority to access it and the system will record any access. Therefore, there will be log records of the person or body which has accessed the register, date and time of access, a set of data which have been accessed and, of course, the legal basis, without which access cannot even be. In addition to the Administration Inspectorate of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, supervision of the application of the law will also be carried out by the Commissioner for Public Information, the Protection of Personality Data and the Protection of Personal Data, as well as by the Ministry of Information Security in the Information Security Work. Given that we have a great deal to do in establishing this register, uniting data, we have foreseen the application of this law, as I said at the beginning of September 1st, 2020. Also, the sublegal act which we have defined will be adopted within six months of the date of entry into force of this law will bring the issues needed to establish and manage this register, the way data is downloaded, data exchange, access and data protection in the register, as well as other technical issues. The central population register as one of the public administration's information pillars is practically necessary for the normal functioning of modern society in accordance with international and European standards. The establishment and management of the Central Register of Population will bring benefits both for our citizens and for the entire system of state administration, of course and for the economy, and I personally believe that you will see for yourself, and based on the dialogue we expect here in this House, on this bill, that we will have the opportunity to see for sure all the benefits that await us if this law, and I am confident that it will, accept here in the Serbian Parliament and when it comes to application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51916	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51917	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, all those who are interested in small screens on this subject, I am very glad that this set of laws is from agriculture and is in front of you, but in addition to these legislative proposals, I will explain in a few words the proposal for a law on tourism and a proposal for a law on hospitality. I think it's very important that we discuss these things today. I think everyone will agree on that. Maybe someone will make a difference with agriculture, tourism, hospitality, and I'll try to try to get in the minutes ahead of us to try a few words to say on the subject, so you figure it out. I think the name and how it connects. As far as this set of laws comes from the agriculture sector, I am above all referring to amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act, plant protection, changes and additions to the Law on Plant Health and Change and Supplements to the Law on plant feeding products to land farmers. At first, I would take the opportunity to draw attention to the public debate on this set of laws, to have a lot of public discussion, so that there are no claims by individuals that the public here has been excluded. The public in the broadest possible form was present, if someone was not involved in this, it does not mean that there was no public, it just means that he did not inform himself enough. So, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the Assembly Committee, you will allow me to repeat what I said at the board meeting yesterday, which is that the widest public debate has been held, and if someone hasn't read or seen it, I can't help it. It's, first of all, very important for the public, I see everything written. I'd like to point out one fact, which thanks to one colleague, the MPs, who told you just before, because I don't use Twitter, I guess, like you, maybe it's a mistake, but there you are. They say -- there's a lot of talk today about how changes to the food safety law are being introduced into Serbia's GMO-designed food. That's a lot of stuff, GMOs. He would ask all fellow MPs, for the sake of truth and for the sake of the public, to point out that zero tolerance in production and trade in GMOs is genetically modified organisms. There is a special law for it, the so-called lex specialis, which regulates all that matter, so that these stories that relate to Article 5 of the amendment and the addition of the Food Safety Act, it absolutely does not stand. Please, as God, don't disturb the public. Let it be an honor to anyone who tries to disrupt the phytosanitary security of this country. Zero tolerance, I repeat, to production and to trade GMOs. This was my duty to say it, because what someone's trying to honor, I guess they don't know what to say anymore. While there was no diesel fuel, there was -- there was no diesel fuel for farmers, now that it's there, no one even mentions it anymore. When something else is done, no one mentions it anymore. Now they have to grab onto things that don't exist, for some mirage, I don't know what else. It's all our reality and that's our virtual reality through social networks. Let's get back to the subject. The area of food security represents one of the priorities of the agriculture ministry and in general the government of the Republic of Serbia, through negotiating chapter 12. We are being followed by a very serious reform in this sector. Don't forget, by December, we didn't have an accredited milk quality control lab. Now, by April, May, we'll have an accredited national reference laboratory for other food control. We have a phytosanitary lab. So this system of national reference laboratories directorship is slowly rounding up. This is what makes one state independent, that at any moment from the aspect of phytosanitary and veterinary safety you can say that we have an independent institution, which has a normative act, which has the apparatus most modern, through which it can determine what it exists in Serbia's space and what it is trying to import. There's one thing I have to say, first of all, for the public. So far, all the food deliveries have been controlled by the fact that the accredited laboratories are privately owned. There was no national laboratory that had a reference character and that covered all of them below and was some kind of umbrella, so it could theoretically happen that one importer wanted to import, first of all, I mean 15, twenty years ago, when the tycoons were both importers and owners of the laboratories that controlled those shipments. Imagine that. Is that possible? (Vojislav Seselj: There is meat. E, it won't work. It will not be possible for meat, milk, or other food, but it will be a state institution, a national institution, already operating in the dairy sector. Here, now we're accrediting ourselves in the other food sector, so everyone will have the opportunity not to have to send it to some country to control what happened, but to do it in our Serbia with the most modern equipment that exists today. I'm also grateful to my predecessor, who was head of the Department of Agriculture for equipping her. It was a long trip, it wasn't a short trip. It was hard to do, especially when the public very often via the yellow press just skating from the left and right, and in fact, why? Because you're trying to protect your country and make it impossible for those who are trying to abuse it, but you know how, you must always be prepared for such things. With these changes and additions to the Food Safety Act, we have established the exact division of jobs between the Ministry of Agriculture and its institutions located at the lower level and the Ministry of Health. First of all, I'm thinking of a sanitary inspection, in terms of the kind of food that's being controlled. Don't forget, since 2009, when the last text that regulated the food safety matter came up, some new product types, so-called. The new food, which was not covered by anything, and it is necessary to know exactly who controls it on the market, and not to get into a situation where everyone says, well, I don't know, we're not, and these others say, we're not, and then I ask who is. Now, that's how we warned you. I have to say that here we had coordinated activity with the Ministry of Health which, hopefully, with a new group of inspectors, because I have to point out for the public, at this point the average age of our veterinary health inspectors is 57 and a half to 58 years, we have to renew this. I am grateful to the Serbian government for recognising it and allowing us to go to the new employment of these people. This is what protects this country at the food border, and you will agree that today this section of food security is one of the most important security elements for a country. Last year since January, we started a new phenomenon, so to speak, in our mile of agriculture, which is a sale, so to speak. the sale on the doorstep. This was provided for goods originating in animals, meat processing, milk processing. So we gave it right to that small farmer, who doesn't have a large amount of meat, a large amount of milk, that on his doorstep he can sell it, to sell it in his market, at the market, in a completely regular way, that there's always, as they would say, a state's booze that's safe. It's food that's right, it's food that's the best quality, but it's never had proof and a certificate of that security. Now, that's what we've done since January 1st. However, we had a situation to do for the goods of plant origin, and that, first of all, will remind you, here, first of all, I mean jams, jams, ajvara, those winter seasonal salads that are being packed, these changes to the Food Safety Act allowed us to write a rule that will regulate and that matter so that these people from Koceljeva there at the winter festival, which have huge quantities, there are 500 stands where they sell winters, that these people don't just have to be there. They will still be able to sell that winter, but they will also be able to enter the markets, locally, on the market without any problems to go and be completely safe when any control comes. What's the state gonna help with that? The state will give half the money to adapt objects that will be accredited, certified for these needs. We already have more than 30 of these things accredited to the processing of meat and milk, and now we're going to this plant sector. Do you know how much that means in the village of Kruzja, over there above Krupanj, at 550m above sea level, where everything is clear, where everything is healthy, when he can process and sell it? It has a much higher added value. Now, it's very important for the state to stand behind these little ones, and right through these changes to the Food Safety Act, that's what we've done. About the reference laboratory of the state I said a few words, but it's very important that we get into the consciousness, the rules and the laws they are a normative tool, but these laboratories are executive. Based on that, you can have the most perfect regulation, if you don't have your own independent lab, there's always room where someone can say it – well, if it's one way or another. If the state controls it, there shouldn't be any problem. (Vojislav Seselj: Now you've convinced us.) I know I convinced you. My job is to get as many people as I can to convince them to vote for this proposal and thank you for voting for it. There's one more thing I want to say that we introduced for the first time, which is the Institute of Official Control. I don't know who reports it, most often anonymously, they come in there, they control it, they write a ticket, they say goodbye, I'll see you. This institute of official controls that we have introduced, which insists on the complete EU, should, in fact, help in its preventive character, in the various monitors that will be carried out and these amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act are made possible. For this right he also gave us a colleague Ruzic through his Law on Inspective Control, where certain areas are allowed in a different way to regulate this official control. I'm grateful for that. I have to say, there's another topic that's mentioned a lot in public. It's the food sector and so on. those ‘best to use until’. We are witnessing that often food must be thrown, which is completely correct, but because of different models it is not possible to use. This gave us the opportunity to make it impossible for a special regulation to throw this food away in the best way possible. Of course, not for all the food. There's food that's impossible... It is usable until, has a date, goodbyes, goodbyes, but there is especially food of plant origin that has its characteristics so that it can be used for some time. This is a special regulation to regulate this matter in which situations can be used to prevent possible abuses. As for the amendment and addition of the Plant Protection Act, just a few words. First of all, we had one duality. We had two regulations, one from 1998, and one from 2009 with different registers. With these amendments of the Law we're completely uniting it all together, we're forming a single register, but there's one thing that's interesting, and I think maybe I'll be able to get the favor of individuals for one reason that might be when I say it and heretic thought, and that's the next thing -- we'll protect the domestic plant protection products, put them on a longer transitional period. Some before us, ten years ago, they probably thought they were going to enter the EU in 2012, 2013 or 2014, so they said in 2014 – the end. After that, nothing domestic can be used because it does not meet the standards. These are preparations that are completely adequate, safe and will allow for 600 domestic preparations to have their lives extended until Serbia's entry into the EU. It's part of the domestic industry. We need to think first of all about Serbia. Our path is the EU, but we have to protect domestic producers and not just say overnight, such as some in December, or when it was, brought that market liberalisation, so they threw Serbian agriculture on their knees overnight. Because of the opening of the market and the adequate protection systems, we don't want to. We'll get past that in this part. I know it's not a big part, but where we can keep it, that's where we keep it. It is very important to say that in the next two to three years, we will work on training farmers through the Plant Protection Authority. There are about 650 thousand registered owners, and of them 360 thousand actively engaged in agriculture and these people are the subject. We have to get to these people. Programmes have been prepared to train them for adequate use of safeguards for one simple reason. We need to help these people, educate them. They say there in Ravny – in one village if you don't have a priest, a teacher and you don't have this guardian, an adviser, you can't get far from this agricultural consultant. We have to educate people how to use protective means, not get into a situation where they burn peppers, someone takes the ashes and throws it to kill a particular disease, so make an even bigger circus than it was before. It has properties that aren't good for food, it's not dangerous for anything else, but it's for this. (Vojislav Seselj: Ash is dangerous. There's ash and coal in there a little bit of wood, if that's what I understand. I went to school for a little while. It is very important that we educate these people and give them the opportunity to receive later business certificates that they are trained for this, in order to deal with agricultural production as best possible. There's one more thing I wanted to say about the changes and additions to the Plant Health Act, and they concern the so-called. the famous fitness certificate for export. You testified in October, a month ago, that we had a series of arrests by persons who tried to abuse Serbia's agreement with the Russian Federation on fruit exports. In this way, we further strengthen this degree of protection by giving them the right, among other things, to have agricultural professional services, to be their official state business to issue fitness certificates. Of course, everything has been established in line with the international IPPS standard and there should absolutely be no more problems. Now I will try a few words to refer to the proposal for a tourism law and a bill on hospitality. For the first time... He said now Rasim would come, only to finish the Mecca thing. I try hard to replace my workmate with dignity. For the first time, we don't have one law that's unique to tourism and hospitality, but we have two completely special laws, because they've shown all the trends that we have to have completely these two separate substances. It is not the same, and I think it is very important to point out the most important things regarding the Tourism Act. Tourism is one of the spheres of Serbia's social life that has rapid growth and prosperity. In 2018 there were 3.4 million tourists in Serbia. That's 11% growth. For the first time last year, we almost have equal numbers of domestic and foreign tourists. This has contributed greatly to the government's policy, opening visa-free borders for certain countries where tourists come from in Serbia. In this way, there was a direct foreign exchange inflow of $1.5 billion. This is 15% growth compared to 2017. But some things happened that shouldn't happen. You remember last summer, remember the travel agencies where the passengers were cheated. The damage was almost $700,000. Big problem. Then there was only so-called. A guarantee of travel, where the tourist organization was eligible for this guarantee for its service. However, the new law also provides for new financial instruments to help protect tourists so as not to be abused by the tourism organisation. The Institute of Deposits is being introduced, it will be specially sublawed, and I think that this way we will try to overcome all the pains that occur in certain segments of society that are developing. We even have a tourist organization license, depending on the deposit they deliver, then the passenger will always be able to know whether it is protected by the highest value license or something lower than the value license. I think this sector must be constantly encouraged. We also have vouchers that the government gives Serbian citizens to go to Serbia's tourist destinations. I think it's very important and it has contributed to the development of this sector and I think it should continue. We have so, it has been noted that in certain situations we have a physical issue of room capacity, apartments, etc. that institution “stop per day”. It was a generator of the gray economy. These amendments to the Household Act have created legal institutes that will protect the state from one side, and on the other hand, these persons who want to do business legally allow that through flat-rate taxation, because in December of the month, it seems to me that the Law on Income Taxes, which allowed us to have a flat tax on those natural persons who have up to 30 beds and who have up to 30 nights. This is very important. Here we come to the connection of agriculture, rural development and all this about tourism and hospitality. If you remember, one of the things we declare through rural development is so-called. rural tourism. Do you think it's easy for one who has, who's registered to conduct rural tourism in a rural household, to go to the headquarters of his municipality every day to report to each of his guests? It's not an easy job. That is why people often ran away from this obligation and did not deal with it but with the platform "E-tourism" that will be introduced will be electronically able to register their guests. Why is this important in agriculture and rural development? We, through the IPARD programme that has set out to exist in Serbia, where Serbia is withdrawing 175m euros in European money, gave 50m euros in money from the Serbian budget, one of the measures that will be accredited this year and where the first competition will be held on 15 November 2019 in rural tourism. In this way, domestic agricultural holdings that want to come out of agricultural activity, that is to say, that in addition to agricultural activities they are also engaged in some non-agricultural activities, will be able to compete for IPARD funds, where 65% are paid back, are guaranteed. The value of one job, investment, can be between 5,000 euros and a maximum of 300,000 euros. For this purpose, 20m euros have been allocated. The conditions for all, literally integration with the Household Act, are these 30 beds. It is therefore believed that there is someone, it is a small man with entrepreneurial activity who wants to deal with this and in this way he will be able to build these capacities, buy equipment, everything he needs from the content to deal with his activity and for his ownership, to provide his family with an adequate level of income. I apologize if I've taken too much time, but I think it's very important in this way to explain, once again I ask the people who are in this highest law building, please don't scare the public of things that aren't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51918	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go. (Borisav Kovacevic: What is he first? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51919	Because I called first and I'm younger than you, so I'm faster. (Borisav Kovacevic: No, there is a Rules of Procedure that says otherwise. E, but I was faster. By the time you get here to sign up, it's been a hundred years. Ladies and gentlemen, when we have a dozen legislative projects ahead of us, a man must be defined for what he thinks is most important at the moment and what he thinks he can say is useful. It's a very important State Register Act. In the 1990s, we kept insisting on it, you can see it in old stenograms, so in the 2000s, it didn't work out either. It didn't work out for a lot of reasons, because we didn't have trained people to run that central register, and it was also of interest that these registers get a little tampered with and dunked, because when they're making special voter lists, it was very important that no one could hold the lists by their heads or tails. We now have one half solution here, Minister. Here we have the Central Register, however, these election registers remain. If we really have professional people to handle the Central Register and ensure that everything is entered into the Central Register as necessary, then we don't need these election registers. Because the Central Register is immediately preceded by the birth of a child, so it goes on. The child graduated from elementary school, graduated from high school, graduated from college – everything is entered. And when asked for, they have special forms of why they're wanted. For what was so far a birth certificate, a special form and you get that information. When it comes to the marriage certificate, too. When it's an obituary, too. So all of this can be done in a single register and then we don't need these 13 special registers anymore. What's wrong with this? You have seen, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had a sharp decline in the number of Serbian residents who have taken place in official statistics, which is not explained to the general public. The fall did not occur because a large part of the population of Serbia was rapidly extinct or moved out, or suddenly disappeared, etc., but because the counting methodology had changed. Once there was a census, all the gastars were enrolled, according to data provided by members of their families. Now, the Gustrabiters are no longer listed, it is understood that they are listed in countries where they temporarily reside under quotes and sometimes stay for life. We list strangers who find themselves living, have no citizenship yet, but have some business here, have some business, have some residence permits and some occupations, etc. There was that reason. By offering us as the Central Register, you did not provide conditions for two very important things. The first thing is that at any moment we know how many Serbian citizens are in Serbia. There is only one way to do this – to prescribe that every citizen who goes across the border is registered. So it's not about any expenses, he's just bound to fill out some little form, get it into his passport, because, you know, a lot of people cross the border just -- go ahead, move on. This wouldn't take much time. But at any time in the register, it would be perfectly clear and accurately registered how many people are within the borders of the state. And in making voter lists, that's what interests us most as oppositionists. We have learned everything through these 90's electoral lists, and how abusers, people who died 50 years ago, are found in the polling list, then non-existent people, then Albanians who did not register in any way, starting with my opponent Milan Milutinovic having 100% Albanian votes, when they took my victory in the presidential elections. You were little, you were ministers today, you were small, so you don't remember that well. (Marian Risticevic: I was not small. You weren't little, you were big and you were born. (Marian Risticevic: I remember this store. You remember. So what is important here in the voter lists – to determine the moment when voting lists from the Central Register are expelled throughout Serbia. So they're thrown out for every constituency and then it can't happen that one name is on multiple electoral lists and it has to be known then that a man can't be the day before the election comes, so he can vote in the elections, but he has to vote at least three days before the election or two days before he's elected to be in Serbia in order to be on the voter's list. Because the voter list then is not thrown out on some special application, but based on the fact that people in Serbia are found to be at that moment. That's how this problem can be solved. Do you care about solving this problem, well, that's the second question now, because when the calculations in the head start to revolve around these electoral procedures and the interests of the power parties in relation to the opposition parties, then they get mixed up. So all this other stuff, all these original registers could disappear, and there would be one single register. You didn't list a military bond register here, for example. I remind you, the U.S. military bond register leads the mail, because it is understood that there are mail in every village. The post office is a state institution. Why double state functions now when mail can do it in a simple way? Computer technology is so advanced, there's no problem. Now that we have the Central Register, then the military bonds to run through the Central Register and you know at the moment of mobilization who's in the country, who's not. You can't prosecute anyone who isn't in the country because he didn't respond to mobilization, and you can prosecute anyone who's found himself without a doctor's conviction that he's incapable of military service. It's about this Central Register. I hope I have a little time left for tourism, because I find tourism as much more attractive as the subject of conversation. We are in the area of tourism, and to a large extent, trade is a complete mess. Whether this chaos has arisen spontaneously or has been deliberately produced, it is now a question to give an answer, but every year we have a large number of citizens who have been deceived by tourist agencies and who have no one to repay money because the one who runs the register of tourist agencies often allows people who have been compromised before, so they are banned from work, but they have formed a new company under a new name, to perform the same work. The point of the Ministry of Tourism's existence should first of all be that it controls the work of agencies and that control must be so strict that when the problem occurs, if there is no one else to settle the damage to the citizen, it has to settle the ministry, because the ministry approaches every agency with a preconceived that the agency is properly registered, otherwise, that it could not exist, and the ministry is to determine how much each agency has to deposit money in order to be able to carry out a kind of work. It's not the point of the agency's work to collect money from the citizens, so two, three groups go on vacation normally, so the rest of them can't, because the owner paid a little money to blur their eyes, pick up the money and run. Or, he says, there's no money. Where's the money? Somewhere there spent on this, like, but we see that rarely the owner of a travel agency goes to jail. The season of fraud by these tourist agencies was opened by Flaj Fly Travel. Thousands of passengers have damaged but other Turkish operators by selling tickets and arrangements that have not been booked at all. After these scandals, all seven "Fly Fly Travel" offices were closed. Just a year before such a scam by the citizens of the agency, Minister Mladen Sarcevic presented recognition for contributing to dual education. Do you remember that? Then what does that mean? What policy does Minister Sarcevic now run? On that occasion, he pointed out that they were extremely business and competent, and thousands of people were sick. Their financial problems began in 2018 when due to unsettled debts they were kicked out of the international airline buying system, so they found another way to get tickets, through some new Sad firm, so when the company was also expelled from the system, the Ministry did nothing from January to July 2018 on a plan to take certain measures to sanction it and prevent it from coming in future. We have Minister Rasim Ljajic who for years ignored citizens' complaints about the unconscious business of certain tourist agencies, and only when fraud culminated in that second half of 2018 did the inspection try to solve something. The inspections, however, tolerated a large number of frauds until the agencies took a huge amount of money and these inspections, in fact, often appear as an element of obstruction. What does that mean? That in some of these inspections people are corrupt and that they get money to cover their eyes and not take measures against the unconscious owners of the agencies. Prosecutors rarely responded, and the question arises – why does JUTA almost always advise people to visit their site and to see the list of agencies that are members of the YUTA? Only those agencies are, like, good and good. The Fly Fly Travel was at the very top of the list, and what is the meaning of this recommendation? Of course, when all this broke out, I guess the minister himself had to resign, so that it would go in turn. Through the SAB agency, again the SAB travels thousands of citizens have lost their travels, even though they have paid the money before the trip. A few hours before the travel agency canceled the trip due to financial difficulties. Why should citizens be interested in the financial difficulties of these agencies? They have to be under such strict control, so for every difficulty the state is responsible for, the competent ministry, and then you see who's to blame. You are required to ensure every paid trip so that our citizens are safe and safe. In June, the "San & Si" agency was closed, and its owner disappeared after a large number of flight arrangements in Turkey, Greece and Tunisia were not paid to the end, and some were not even booked, although they were paid neatly. So he picked up the money and left. There's this jazz travel agency from Chačka, is that right, Natasa, Jazz Travel, what's it called, so I have J on paper, so I'm always surprised that you say J, when you say J, and what do you ministers say J, when you say G? Is that something European? "Jazz Travel" from Cačka cancelled travellers in Greece, and about 100 passengers took a flight to Paraly and Olympic Beach on two buses when drivers informed them that their flight was cancelled only an hour after the trip. So we got there, after an hour the drivers say – we were joking, there's nothing since your flight. The passengers, of course, had to leave the buses in Kragujevac and the King on this occasion. They didn't make it to their destination and they had to go home on their own, as far as anyone knows, by car stop, by foot, someone like this, someone like that. A group of about 150 Belgrade students, who headed for a trip to Spain on their arrival in Ljoret de Mar in June, could not enter a hotel accommodation reserved under the arrangement, which was paid at Planeta-Transport agency. Rasim Ljajic has had tourism in his portfolio for five years. Only after the fraud of tourist organisations culminated, he and his associates remembered that stricter conditions for the establishment and operation of tourist agencies were prescribed in the law. All previous years, there have been frauds like this, and he has done nothing to prevent them, but now at the end of his term, practically, the ash spills and the law prescribes new measures. In addition to fraud about not providing accommodation, several tourist agencies at the time of Rasim Ljajic's mandate, for arrangements abroad via charter flights, have been hired by airlines that have not previously been authorised by our Civil Aviation Directorate. So the arrangements were sold, and the transport at the start was uncertain, because no permission was received in advance. The permit may not have been obtained because the planes were not correct. Who knows what reason the license wasn't obtained? The assumption was that they asked for permission, because that's how they operate in the world, and that because they didn't get permission, they performed flights without permission. A plane crashes, 100, 200 people die and who's to blame? It's a terrible risk. It is totally unacceptable, in my opinion, in this proposal for a tourism law to give the minister who has shown himself in this way the authority to prescribe the type, height and conditions of travel guarantees, the level of deposits depending on the category of licence, as well as the way of activation, the purpose of funds and others. It must be prescribed by law to make it available to all. Citizens tend to have insight into sublegal acts, instructions and things like that. It is incomprehensible, therefore, and the issue of incentives in tourism. We see in the paper that it is now being encouraged and given to foreigners who, through certain agencies, come 10-15 euros. What's that for? What does that mean? Here, we support the incentive for local citizens to fly to Serbia. That really needs to be encouraged by the state. I think the experiences were good. Is that right? Sixty thousand vouchers, all used. Natasha's an expert on these things, so you'll only hear her when there's a further debate. So that's not a bad thing. There's one thing I have to commend at the Ministry, but paying for strangers to come, that's already pointless. It won't depend on these 15 euros whether the stranger comes or won't. We are an attractive country for both the Chinese and many others. It was a long time ago until China was this strong and strong. (President: Bring the end, colleague Seselj. I'm done. There's this problem with spas that are very detached and the Ministry doesn't work to improve them. It works, but it's a little bit, not enough, like someone wants them sold at cheapest prices. I think those spas should be updated first, they should be modernised, then placed on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51920	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, I would like just a few things I probably missed in the opening address, and it concerns this Law on Tourism and the Household Law. I don't want to talk about GMOs, we've discussed it, we've determined what it is and how it is. I have to say, the fact is last year, and your words are being confirmed, which culminated in terms of tourists and those problems that were with several agencies. In one agency, the guarantee, which is a maximum of 300,000 euros, failed to compensate the passengers who went through the agency and therefore introduced deposits that will be adequate and licensed, adequate travels that these tourism organisations organise. It is very important to say that these tourists who have been played by these agencies in the most part or are completely compensated. I'm saying, with this one SAB agency, it wasn't a situation, because the value of the trip exceeded the amount of the guarantee. That's why you get into the deposit now, 70% were compensated, the rest wasn't just money. To set things up that the state in the budget compensates for it, I think this is a much better way, to establish deposits, to increase the amount of these deposits, and then it can go over the guarantee over the deposit to 500, 600, 800, and then there will be no problems. I think it's very important to say. As far as foreign tourists are concerned, it is granted exclusively to domestic agencies that bring in 15 and more foreign tourists, three or more nights to get so-called. Incentive, as you said. I'm just going to say one thing, do you know which tourists from distant countries have the most, here in our environment? These are mostly trips that are connected to several countries. Chinese. That's a very big potential. That amount of 15 euros or 10, whatever it is, you know what the budget is for that? Fifty million dinars. How much does that come out? Ten times less than the voucher, and 1.5 billion is the foreign inflow made by foreign tourists. They spend a lot more than they can. But it's a trend that exists, encouraging the domestic economy of the tourism economy to work. They spend money here. He doesn't spend money coming from China, going through Serbia, so he spends it in Thessaloniki, but spends it in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Palic, spend it... (The Belief of Radeta: Sremski Mitrovica.) Well, come on, and in Sremska Mitrovica, if it has to, if we're there. (Vojislav Seselj: But everything would be the same without these 15 euros. It wouldn't be all the same. You're playing a game. I think you need to understand that. You're playing a game with other tourists. It's the same story as bringing foreign investors. When they come, everyone starts dancing and offering something. If you stay passive in that game, on a long deadline you lose, for a short time you may be right. In the longer term, you must know that he spends a lot more. How much is one lunch at a Belgrade restaurant for one person? Well, five, six euros. He didn't come here from China to have lunch once, but since three nights is minimum, he spends at least 15 euros for lunch, one man. And where's the sleep, and where's the drink, where's everything else, where's the tickets? We open museums. Where is it? You know what that's good for? I mean, sometimes you have to play by the principle of stick and carrots, it has to. You must sometimes have a cost to make a much greater benefit. I apologize if I've usurped the weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51922	The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51923	What the Minister of Agriculture said is that it's not from tourism and trade and it's not doing very well. All this about attracting the Chinese would have been without those 15 euros to the agency's owners. We Chinese attract because we are one of the few countries in Europe that abolished visas, that's the point. That is why the Chinese are much more likely to come to Serbia than to the countries of the European Union. Of course, before there were other motives, it was already quite reduced, they came for trade, they came for various other needs, but we have something else that the whole government should be working on, to allow Chinese citizens who make marriage to Serbs to get citizenship both Russian citizens and Albanian citizens as soon as possible. You know, a lot of Albanian women are interested in marrying Serbs, and you're holding on to giving citizenship, like the government is holding back. Now, consider that a little bit. Because whoever makes marriage and lives and creates a family in Serbia has fulfilled all the conditions for citizenship, and you don't give it to a variety of people there, starting with this Lausevic, the double killer, and beyond that, you give away your citizenship, you carry passports on your feet and everything else. Here, Minister, one example that you are unable to explain. As early as 2013, the Serbian government sold the Jugobanke hotel in Kopalnik for 1.5m euros, and the previous directorate of the government of the Republic of Serbia bought the hotel for 2.1m euros. At an elite location, they did so with a contract, instead of for a bigger one – for a lower price, to sell afterwards. That's what's going on with our spas. It's pure crime. No one in the government has ever had a headache about this. You control not only the Ministry of Tourism but all the other ministries, so you can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51924	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51925	Thank you, Chairman. Just so we don't stay out of sight. As far as the Central Population Register is concerned, the idea is that it contains only the latest updated data and that the original data remain in the original registers. As for what was said to have 13 registers, no, we have six registers, and 13 records that will be pooled in this central population register. The reason is that the Ministry Act which clearly regulates whose jurisdiction is to keep different records. Also, what is the purpose of the Central Population Register? First of all, officials who conduct the procedure instead of citizens who should collect different documents themselves from the Central Register of Population take over the necessary documents and up-to-date data to implement and complete the procedure in a quick manner. It's an emergency. As for the idea that it was brought here to practically find everything in one place, simply, it can produce the possibility of abuse of excessive use of data that is not necessary to complete a procedure at all, and that is the reason, in addition to the Ministry Act that determines jurisdiction, why we're headed this way. As for the census, it is true that the methodology was still changed then, 2011 was the last census, for which the Republic Bureau of Statistics was in charge, in 2021 a new list awaits us and of course it can be the subject of discussion and methodology. As far as the single voter list is concerned, I can only say that it has never been more up-to-date, that the unique electoral list is connected to the death certificate, that at the beginning of next week, hopefully, it will also be tied to the marriage parent's book, and that in any case leads to further updates of the single voter list itself. In order for all of this to be possible, first of all, thanks to the parents, it was necessary to transfer all that data from the parent books to electronic form, then to introduce the Law on Parent Books as the primary form, not paper form, and, of course, to oblige the parents who are very valuable people and have been very dedicated to working on the work in the register of parent books since the beginning of this year. What is done next is that we have linked the death certificate to a unique ballot and thus allowed the list to be faster and more up-to-date. Of course, without that digitisation, it has been updated daily in the home services, but it has been working much slower and has been working on citizens' demands. Now, if there has been a fatal outcome in an earlier period, before the entry into force of this importing of the birth certificate of the deceased into the single electoral list, officially the parents can do so and any citizen can make an insight into the unique polling list on the Ministry's site. So there's certainly an urgency that this system is being arranged, so I repeat that it's never been more up-to-date and that this will be resolved in the future in the right way. What you mentioned from some recent history of Serbian parliamentary life or the electoral processes that were, some remember some were very young, some were not, I remember it very well, but I think it goes into a political plane, and in the capacity of the minister I really wouldn't talk about and remind you of the election results of some, I don't know what years it was but presidential elections, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51926	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. ) Comrade Seselj first to answer you Minister, Mr Nedimovic. Here you go. (Vojislav Seselj: I have the right to respond to Ruzic. ) Right to replica, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51927	Mr. Ruzic, you have pointed to an objective problem, a problem of staff reliability that will be employed to work on these registers, or on a central register, and there is a danger of someone finding themselves in that job, but with this danger all the countries in the world are facing and therefore the Central State Registry should be the place where the most trusted people are employed as in the secret police, the Military Intelligence Service, etc. Ideal solutions are not possible, but to take measures of protection and control that no one can avoid, and then it is enough to have one register, and based on a query that computerly types, you define yourself for one form of document that you are looking for and you simply get an answer right away. Secondly, for every citizen, you have to have at least one more definition besides the name and last name and the father's, because there are many people with the same name and last name, even the father's name, which is why the citizens' home numbers were introduced. So, you have to have at least one more citizen's home number when you put an inquiry into your computer and when you're looking for information. I guess it should be assumed that he doesn't have the same two birth numbers. If you find the same number of citizens, it's a crime at the state level, right? Then it's already a disaster. So that would be how one state would function and save itself on these accompanying services. All in one place, the top computer technology that continues to perfect itself and will perfect itself in the next year, will be easier to achieve certain things and not cough then. (President: Bring the end of your colleague Seselj. ) And the forests will be saved, the great forests, the charters that will become unnecessary. Now I'm ready to challenge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51928	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51929	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Ruzic, the respected Ministers Nedimovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are talking here today about laws for Serbia very important and connected areas, that is agriculture and tourism. These two industries are devouring each other because tourism is a significant market for agricultural and food products, and on the one hand a wide range of domestic products enriches tourism and tourism, on the other hand, through the affirmation of national cuisine and specific products encourages the development of agriculture. Simply put, tourism needs agricultural products and agriculture needs consumers. Rural tourism is like a special category, so I think it is important to make these two areas better and the legal proposals that are now ahead of us are what they are offering. Why is it important to pass a new law on tourism and the law on hospitality? There are more reasons. If we take into account the fact that tourism in Serbia is in expansion and achieves significant economic results, supported by figures saying that 2018 was a record successful tourist year in which 1.5 billion dollars of foreign exchange inflow was achieved, from tourism which is 15% growth compared to 2017, then you will agree that one of the reasons why this area is systemically regulated. Mr. Seselj, maybe you should have heard a little bit of information and facts about the area you were talking about. (President: Please, colleague Karanovic. (Vojislav Seselj: You will give me in writing. I will, I will. It should also be taken into account the EU regulation on travel organisation and related travel arrangements, then regulatoryly developed tourism countries in the environment, and we will conclude that the bill was created as a result of an analysis of the situation on the tourist market and of the problems facing tourism operators. One of the priorities is the need to reduce the grey economy, especially in the part of organising tourist trips. Not once we witnessed the whole tourist buses coming back halfway because they were told not to be paid for accommodations and that their arrangement had failed for some unknown reason. Many people paid for their vacation, and when they were supposed to take a trip, the agency just didn't exist anymore. The existing legal solutions did not protect passengers enough, and they were very often led astray without the possibility of advertising and compensation for damages. Article 58 of the proposed Tourism Act, which is before us today and which we are discussing, stipulates that the guarantee of travel due to the insolvency of travel organisers is particularly provided for the costs of necessary accommodation, nutrition and return of passengers from travel instead of departures in the country and abroad, as well as all claims of passengers. The travel guarantee shall provide complete compensation for damages incurred on the fulfilment of the obligation of travel organisers agreed under conditions and travel programme. That's what citizens need to know. In order to reduce the grey economy and achieve this primary task, the proposal for a tourism law that we are discussing today is fully in line with the inspection law and the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law also agreed with the development strategy with tourism for the period 2016 – 2025. When it comes to strategy and development of tourism, I must point out that the results go ahead of the objectives outlined in the strategy. The amount of foreign exchange inflow in 2018, which amounted to $1.5 billion, was achieved two years earlier than planned for the tourism development strategy. On the issue of journalists – how did the strategy depart, i.e. to a significant leap in results from the planned, Minister Rasim Ljajic said that not a pessimistic forecast strategy and that the results were achieved thanks to the great work and effort of a huge number of people and that tourism was recognised, not only as entertainment and recreation, but as an industry that contributes to the country's economic recovery. Serbia is sixth in Europe when it comes to tourist visits, which is a great result, especially if we observe the number of visits in an earlier period. Our country has left many major European destinations behind, according to the number of arrivals of foreign guests. It is important to point out that the results achieved in tourism are not a coincidence but a fruit of good planning, investment and great effort. Unlike the previous years in 2018, for the first time we had an identical number of domestic and foreign guests, approximately 1.7 million each, indicating that Serbia is becoming an increasingly recognizable destination for foreign tourists. In addition, it says that the percentage of the biggest growth in Serbia's arrival was recorded by Chinese tourists who last year were more than 100,000. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, a total of 3,430,500 tourists visited Serbia in 2018. It is approximately three and a half million, with 9.5 million overnight stays, which is 11% more than in 2017, when the total number of tourists amounted to slightly more than three million. The comparisons, in 2017, were more than foreign to around 100,000. In 2016, out of the total number of 2.7 million tourists, domestics were about two hundred thousand more than on the side. So other than increasing the number of tourists year by year, we have more and more foreigners. If we return in 2010, the number of foreign tourists was double the number of domestics and the total number of tourists compared to 2010 increased by more than a million and a half in 2018. And that's, you'll agree, excellent results. Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kopalnik, Zlatibor and Vrnjačka Banja contributed most to these tourist results. These so-called five gold destinations attract 75% of all guests, while 25% refer to all other destinations. These data suggest that Serbia's potentials are not used enough, especially Serbian spas. The biggest problems with individual destinations are that they have not been invested in infrastructure projects for years, as well as lack of promotion. Serbia is expected to have a dozen serious internationally recognised tourist destinations in the coming period. In order to achieve these expectations and improve tourism in Serbia, it is necessary to build new and fix existing roads, build a municipal infrastructure, encourage rural tourism, produce organic food, make much more of an environmental account. The tourism law provides for improving the coordination of the work of all actors, from national, regional to local level, as well as the private sector, and all to achieve maximum results and more rational spending of budgetary resources, and this integration is in fact the key objective of this law. One of the successful measures to improve tourism has also shown the sharing of vouchers for the benefited holiday in Serbia. In this way, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications encourages the development of domestic tourism, and the vouchers also provide assistance to pensioners, farmers, unemployed, as well as employees with incomes of up to 60,000 dinars. We can freely say that the distribution of vouchers for individual destinations was almost rescue, which, for example, was the case with Soko Banja, who in 2018 entered top five destinations with a growth of over 80% overnight stays compared to the previous year. That the interest in vouchers is a great deal of information that in less than two months this year, as many as 39,000 citizens have applied for it. If the trend continued with this dynamic, without additional funding, we would have to stop this action in May. Given that vouchers are important not only because of the growth of tourism traffic, but also because of the extension of the tourist season, as well as the reviving of smaller tourist destinations across Serbia, the ministry will make a request for additional funds for vouchers. I think there's enough reasonable reason for these funds to be approved. In order to achieve the set targets for 2019, which are 3.7 million guests, of which two million foreign tourists, Serbia must monitor modern trends in tourism and tourist habits not only in our country and the environment, but also globally. Aware of the fact that Serbia is not a first or main vacation destination, but that tourists want to have a larger number of smaller holidays, so-called. A weekend vacation, a chance in young people who want to visit new undiscovered destinations. That's why we need to adapt and meet new technological trends and digitisation. Tourists today use the internet during travel and more than half of them want a digital tourist guide. These are all the changes that await us. To opt for a specific destination, an increasing number of tourists care about the country they travel to, and that is rarely one of the main motives. In this we need to see a great chance to send a message that Serbia and the region are stable. This year's plans are between 3.6 million and 3.7 million guests. This is expected between 1.9m and 2m foreign tourists. It is expected that the foreign exchange inflow from last year's 1.5 billion dollars will reach 1.7 billion. Minister Ljajic says the goals set are very realistic and reaching. Investments in roads, infrastructure, refurbishment of spas are certainly going to meet these goals. While staying recently in Tutin, President Vukic said 22km of road will be built in a year to connect Novi Pazar and Tutin, which can contribute significantly to the development of tourism in the region. Opening the highway through the Grdelička clisuru will also increase the chance of tourism for the Jablani County. The president announced investment in the tourism of Lake Vlassin. He promised that the state would invest about 60 million dinars in Sierra Banja. The highway from Belgrade to Cačak and from Cačka to Požega could significantly contribute to the development of tourism in Zlatibor, Divcibari, as well as rural tourism in the region, and these are just some of the examples. However, the places most often visited by foreign tourists are Belgrade, Novi Sad, Zlatibor, Kopalnik and Vrnjaka Banja. The two new destinations that stood out during 2018 were Nis and Soko Banja, which are expected to continue to develop. Over the next two years, Serbia should receive three renewed tourist destinations, which, along with the already existing ones, make up the top ten destinations most visited by tourists. These are the region of the lower Podunovo, the area around Palic and Divcibara. 13 billion euros from the EU IPA funds will be invested in the development of the lower Danube as new tourist destinations. The Danube pigeon fortress will be completely completed by the end of this month. The fortress in Novi Gradište will also be completed, and a contract with the EU has been announced to grant funds to rebuild the fortress of Fetislam at Kladov. A complete traffic and municipal infrastructure will also be developed for Rajačka pupnica near Negotina, and a large visitor centre with accommodation facilities will be built at Felix Romuliana's site. On Palic, in co-operation with the city and the town of Pokran, a large aquarium and wellness centre is being built, and the value of the investment is about ninem euros. The papers are in progress. They should be completed in a year and a half, opening up a space for private investment and new facilities, whose lack was the reason why tourists bypassed Palic and went to Hungarian spas. The third destination to enter the top ten is Divcibare, where basketball player Milos Teodosic invests fivem euros to build a hotel and a large sports and recreational centre with football and basketball courts. In view of the regulatoryly developed tourism countries of the EU, regulatory countries in the environment, the specificity of modern hospitality as well as the extent of the achieved development of tourism and hospitality, as well as the needs of tourists, it is clear that there is a need for tourism and hospitality to be regulated by two special laws – the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage. Otherwise, these two legal solutions, i.e. their implementation, will directly reflect the economic development of various activities related to the needs of tourists and to hospitality and hoteling through accommodation and gastronomic services, then all types of traffic intended for the transport of tourists, to trade, sports and various kinds of cultural events. The law will indirectly have positive effects on agriculture through the placement of agricultural and food products, as otherwise many of them would not be able to find a placement on the world market. Then, on construction through the construction of catering facilities, as well as other industries. All of these are more than clear reasons for the congregation to adopt these two legal solutions. Today we also have a Law on the Central Population Register. The importance of passing this law is that by joining all data into an electronic database, instead of from 11 plus two different records, it will provide for the creation of a united register in electronic form. In this way, the process for obtaining data will be shortened, and the whole process will be faster, easier and cheaper than ever before. Citizens will no longer have to collect documents on different counters to do a certain job, but on one counter, officials from a united electronic register will be able to obtain data for services to citizens which will reduce waiting and traffic on counters. This law pays special attention to both safety and security, as access to data will only be given to authorised officials, and citizens will be able to gain insight into their data. At the same time, a positive effect will be achieved in the field of environmental protection, as there will be no more unnecessary paper, as it is the digital Central Population Register. In the case of a set of laws in the area of agriculture, i.e. the Food Safety Act, the Law on plant protection and the Law on Plant Health, common denominators shall ensure a high level of protection of human health. As a result, it is necessary to establish a system of official and reference laboratories for the examination of plant feeding and land processing and plant protection. It is also necessary to establish a system of registration of these funds to ensure a high level of protection, both human health and animal health and the environment. The proposal for a food safety law covers everyone in the food chain, starting with the production of food for animals, primary production, processing, storage, transport and retailing. The Food Safety Act also provides for an exact division of the jurisdiction and control of the food chain. This closes the circle when it comes to food safety, and the conditions for smooth trade are met, both internally and internationally. These standards comply with EU rules, i.e. The legislation transposes the relevant EU standards, which Serbia must apply on its way to membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51930	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51931	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, to make our views on the proposed laws, which are on the agenda. I would primarily like to talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act, the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Hostage. For all three proposals of the Law, it is common for them to improve the process of implementation of EU legal flows and the introduction of concrete directives to meet the conditions for the achievement of the negotiating chapters. The guided and stated reasons for the MPs of the Alliance of Dukes Hungarians will support these bill proposals, aware that they regulate complex areas of life and work and that, for example, food security, as Mr. Minister said and said, which is negotiating Chapter 12, is one of the most difficult systemic issues. There is no single approach or rule adopted in this respect, either in EU Member States, how to resolve the division of competence and responsibility in the area of food security, and in particular how to address the issue of official controls. Although the current food safety law has made progress in improving food safety standards and introduced a new concept covering all sectors in the food chain, the Republic of Serbia's food security system has become comprehensively integrated. Everyday life has shown that it is necessary to improve its implementation and implementation by adopting and applying sublegal regulations. I recall that the European Commission's reports in this area specifically point to the problem that the current number of employees and their educational profile, both at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and also at the Ministry of Health, are not sufficient to support the transposition of EU rules in the area of food safety into national legislation, and in particular their implementation and application. Guided by the fact that the legal liquid in Chapter 12 makes a very large number of regulations, directives and decisions aimed at ensuring a high degree of food safety, rules of hygiene for food production, animal health and plant health within the EU, as well as appropriate monitoring of the coalition agreement between the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians and SNS have been introduced. The Regulation on small producers, as entities in the food business of animal and plant origin, will be adopted, allowing them to process and place their products in accordance with the Food Safety Act. In accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt The food safety law has been laid down by the Regulation on small quantities of primary products used for the supply of consumers in the field of performance of these activities, as well as derogations relating to small entities in the food business of animal origin. This way, I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, for the adoption of this Regulation. This Regulation applies to food of animal origin, and we remain obliged to adopt a Regulation on other primary products in small quantities. The adoption of such a regulation is strategically important for the MPs of the Union of Duchy Hungarians, since we all think that we should take special care of small producers. For us, the survival of as many small land as possible is of strategic importance. We think we should take special care of them. Since the proposal for a food safety law amends provisions relating to small quantities of food, there is a obligation to adopt a new regulation that regulates this issue within one year of the date of entry into force of the law. In Article 16. The draft law amending Article 49 of the prescribed conditions regarding food hygiene does not apply to the direct supply of consumers to primary products in small quantities. The Minister, i.e. the Minister in charge of health services, shall provide for exclusions, adjustments or derogations from the requirements for the hygiene of food for the production and transport of food of animal origin, i.e. for food of plant origin, and for the facilities where small quantities of food are produced. Second, where traditional methods are applied in certain stages of food production, processing and transport. Third, in which food is operated with traditional characteristics and fourth, which are located in areas where specific geographical indications exist. Those exclusions may relate to the construction, arrangement and equipment of food facilities, as well as to the relief in the application of the self-control system in small quantities of food, taking into account appropriate risk factors although such derogations do not affect the achievement of the objectives of this law. The Minister shall provide for small quantities of primary products for the supply of consumers, as well as areas for the implementation of that activity. The Minister, i.e. the Minister in charge of health affairs, is closer to prescribing conditions for the placing on the market of small quantities of food, which are considered small quantities of food, the type of food, the place where small quantities of food can be placed on the market, as well as the form of confirmation depending on the type of food to be placed on the market and the content of the records. In addition to that Regulation, it is provided for the adoption of a large number of different sub-legislative acts, the use of which will provide a standard of food safety with the operations of appropriate laboratories for the analysis and control of products. We MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians do not want to introduce anything new, we just want to install into our system a small-scale business system, which exists in some countries, E. If small-scale owners can do business in this way, for example in Austria, Hungary, Poland, then we should also take over and thus ensure the survival of small agricultural producers. The positive fact is that the accredited National Reference Laboratory for Food Safety, Animal Food and Milk Quality Studies is competent for carrying out food safety studies and that an accredited National Laboratory for Milk Control is open, which is of particular importance for farmers, because we are getting a milk control laboratory that is also formally trained to supervisory the quality of milk in the whole territory of Serbia. It is of particular importance that the examination of the sample is carried out on the personal request of the farmer, as well as on the request of the milkman with whom the director has contracted, that we examine the milk periodically, as well as on the request of the competent inspection services. The point in which the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on Hostage and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Food Safety Act is the instrument for pre-accession assistance in the field of rural development, as the IPARD programme promotes the concept of integrated rural development. The concept of integrated rural development as part of a regional development policy is based on a comprehensive development of rural mixed areas in which nearly half of Serbia's population lives. Successful rural development rests, among other things, and on the following principles - to recognise the possibilities of diversified rural development of each environment, to lead a consistent policy of poverty reduction in rural areas and to accelerate the process of decentralisation of government, to strengthen the role and responsibility of local self-government itself. During this year, the seven IPARD programmes are expected to be activated, which refers to the diversification of agricultural holdings and business development. It's extremely important that the IPARD program is on its way. I hope that by the end of the deadline we can make use of all the resources available to us, it is in the interest of both the Ministry of Agriculture and all the farmers. The specific objectives and measures are seven: investment support for the development of tourist facilities and services to agricultural producers and other economic operators in rural areas, because in this way the expansion of economic activities in the country in the field of rural tourism and other support for the development of tourist recreational activities especially for family and children's tourism. The total budget for this measure is around 23m euros by 2020, and I remind you that the National Rural Development Programme for the period from 2018 to 2020 was adopted in August 2018. We cannot talk about the concept of integrated rural development unless we ignore an important distribution channel for small agricultural holdings, for traditional crafts and local products, which are markets. By adopting the Regulation on small producers, as operators in animal and vegetable food business, the role of the market is becoming even more significant. At the same time, markets contribute to the protection of villages and rural areas, enable the development of agricultural production, and allow customers, tourists, a wide range of local products and more favourable prices. About 400 markets in Serbia work directly every day for about 80,000 people. At the same time, we cannot talk about investment support and development of tourist facilities and services to farmers without a legal framework, which will remove some of the key problems that are present in the areas of tourism and hospitality. Given the degree of tourism development and hospitality achieved in the Republic of Serbia, conditions have been created for this area to be systematically regulated by two laws – the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage, since the applicable Tourism Act is a regulated area of tourism and hospitality. The aim of the adoption of both laws is also to bring the EU legislation into line with the directive on organised travel and related travel arrangements, as well as with the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2025. For us SVM MPs, it is extremely important that in the course of the public debate on the draft tourism law, our objections were accepted, which included the harmonisation of certain provisions of the Tourism Bill with the Law on determining the competence of the AP Vojvodina in the work concerning the proposals of the Act on the Declaration of Tourist Space on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the proposal of a member of the Commission for the Categorisation of Tourist Places, while the organisation of the expert examination for the local tourist guide and tourist companion in the area of the AP Vojvodina will be regulated by a sublegal act whose adoption is in the power of the minister. A priority objective for both laws is the need to reduce the grey economy. The National Alliance for Local Economic Development report of February 2018 said that in 2017 the highest percentage of operators operating in the gray economy zone in agriculture and catering is around 20%. The next problem affecting the level of gray economy, especially in the part of domestic work and rural tourist households, is the prescribed obligation to work through intermediaries, through local tourism organisations, tourist agencies or other legal entities. Nautical tourist and hunting tourism activities are processed only in a segment relating to the provision of catering services. The news is that hunting activities can be carried out by a company, a second legal entity or an entrepreneur if, as a hunting user, they meet the conditions laid down by law governing the area of hunting. One of the newspapers refers to catering services in the catering facilities of domestic work and the rural tourist household. The conditions under which the caterer can provide catering services for accommodation, food preparation and services, drinks and drinks in the catering facility of domestic work and rural tourist household are specified. Also, the newspaper is to rent a house, apartment, apartment, room, bed or other space which is intended for accommodation by the legal person, entrepreneur or natural person for up to 30 days is considered a catering service. The above provisions relating to catering services in domestic employment, the rural tourist household, begin with the application of July 1st, 2019. We SVM MPs believe that these changes are necessary and that, with the amendments to these laws, we will improve the tourism sector and we hope to improve the situation in agriculture. Mr. Minister Nedimovicu, I'm often in the field. I had all kinds of stands. Farmers continue to have the most questions about pension and disability insurance for agricultural producers and when the issue will be resolved. We know that the biggest problem is that the same amount pays and the manufacturer who owns three acres and the one who owns it, for example. at 300 hectares and that it is necessary for agricultural producers' obligations to be in proportion to the area of the farmed land and the income obtained from agriculture. Of course, farmers also want larger subsidies, and the subject is the registration of agricultural machines, i.e. the technical examination, where the rigorous conditions are. It's just some of the topics we need to react to. We still need to work together to improve the position of farmers and all those living in rural areas. I think we're on our way through amendments and these laws. Finally, I would like to say once again that SVM MPs, or we SVM MPs, think that the amendments to the laws on the agenda are positive and that in the voting day we will support all proposals on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51932	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51933	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, will address the full set of draft laws on the agenda as part of the parliamentary debate of the assembly session as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. I will speak first of all about the first proposed law, which is the proposal for a law on the Central Population Register. I believe that this bill is extremely important, because it is a whole new law, a law that prescribes legal legislation to establish a single register of central and united records of all relevant population data. How important is the intention unambiguously speaking of the information that e.g. Today, state authorities have relevant data on the population kept in as many as 13 different official records and are located in different state institutions. This situation prevents the establishment of modern, efficient and rational state administrations, and for our citizens this practically means unnecessary and most often long-term procedures in the exercise of their right to obtain the necessary documents and documents. I will give only one example, in order to exercise the right to a child's allowance, nearly 20 documents from different services and institutions need to be obtained. Parents faced with procedures, deadlines set by procedural legislation, and not a flexible administration rarely give up their right to do so. Therefore, it is clear that the practice imposed the need to update and pool the records of all relevant data on citizens, such as copies of the register of books of origin, citizenship records, residence records, home numbers, ID cards, travel documents, etc. in one comprehensive base, i.e. Central registry. True, progress has already been made by introducing an electronic administration, because some procedures have been accelerated, but with the establishment of the Central Register, other obstacles will be removed for a simpler, faster and more effective exercise of the rights of our citizens before the competent state authorities and institutions. Therefore, the Central Register will be of great benefit to our citizens, but as the main information pillar of the public administration in many ways will facilitate the work of both public authorities, public services, local self-government, various funds and the like. What is important is that this law also prescribes security for citizens in the sense that the data concerning them cannot be misused, because access to the Central Register will be subject to exclusive authority and will be strictly controlled. Therefore, I am convinced that the adoption of this law and the establishment of a Central Register for our society will mean a faster, more efficient and rational state administration, because our citizens rightly seek and expect such administration. Another bill I would like to refer to is the draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act. This law is important because it prescribes the legal assumptions necessary to improve the safety control system in the process of production, transport and sale of food and feed for animals. Food safety is currently among the most important challenges for consumers, manufacturers and distributors in the food industry. Today, it seems more than before, consumers are interested, and unorthodoxly concerned about the health security and origin of foods used in food, because health care professionals' warnings are clear in the sense that one of the main issues for ensuring and maintaining the health of the population is the issue of ensuring quality, healthy, safe food and proper nutrition. Manufacturers and distributors are aware of their share of responsibility and major challenges for ensuring food safety, as the potential risks of food contamination are high at every step of the food chain from raw materials to consumers. I'll just list some of them, for example. the risk of animal disease, from environmental pollution, from inadequate treatment in primary production, from unprofessional application of agro-technical measures, non-hygienic food handling, inadequate transport conditions, storage and storage. Food safety issues are a particular challenge in the conditions of sudden expansion of trade in agricultural and food products, as well as the expansion of the tourism sector, because they carry with them an additional risk of increased intake of chemical contaminants through food and their harmful fact of human health. Hence, it is clear that food security is a global challenge, that in the focus of modern man's attention and an unsustainable source of interest of scientists and experts of conscious major health, economic and legal issues that this issue may raise. Although the responsibility for food safety is extended and divided, among participants, i.e. entities in the chain of production, transport and sale of food, each of which is responsible for its part of the chain, in order for the final outcome to be a safe and healthy product offered to the consumer, there are, however, controls and controls carried out by the competent inspection services in accordance with the applicable law at the top of the pyramid. What is important is that over the past 10 years, food safety in Serbia has been controlled either by the 2009 Food Safety Act or by the regulations adopted under this law. I refer to this law for the reason that it has been transposed into domestic legislation by a legal framework, i.e. a specific EU directive, as a guarantee of the comprehensiveness of controls in an integrated food production chain with the aim of respect for high standards of health security. The application of this law and with regard to the commitment of inspection services, veterinary, agricultural, fitness sanitary and sanitary inspections, have contributed to the system of food and feed safety for the Republic of Serbia's animals being known and recognised in the European and world frameworks. I am saying this for reasons of the occasional occurrence of certain products of dubious quality that are found on our market, which are otherwise notified to the public. Unorthodox, the entire system of surveillance and control is at stake. This is understandable, because this information is usually placed so that it causes fear, concern and consumer suspicion of the existence of a system and a professional relationship in law enforcement. I remind you that eggs with salmonella, frozen meat of dubious quality or, most recently, discovered meat from Poland infected with salmonella and escherichia are not newspapers in other European countries' markets. These phenomena also mean public concern and fear. However, citizens should know that cases like this have been discovered and that a system of surveillance and control at national level works, and that there is coordination between countries of the region and beyond. Coordination and co-operation between countries in matters of food and food safety control is of paramount importance in the notification and alerting of incidents or the occurrence of health non-safety products that are presumed to be extended to other markets. With all the positive effects of the 10-year application of the Food Safety Act, certain shortcomings and the need to upgrade certain legal solutions have been identified in line with the latest scientific and expertise. I therefore believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are important and necessary, as well as that the improvement and modernisation of the system of food and feed safety control must be our constant desire. Amendments and additions to the law shall specify the jurisdiction of individual inspections, notably veterinary and sanitary, in the control and control process. The paper is that food control at retail facilities is proposed to be in the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health, with the control of food of animal origin in facilities registered by the Ministry of Agriculture, such as the slaughterhouses, and continued to be in the jurisdiction of the veterinary inspection. For the purposes of laboratory testing in the area of food and feed safety under the official controls procedure, it is proposed to continue to be competently authorised reference laboratories that are accredited and on the list of registered laboratories for these purposes. The amendments and additions to the laws also specify the role and competence of the national reference laboratory, such as co-operation with national reference laboratories of other countries, and the regulation of uniform criteria and methods in implementing standards for the operation of authorised laboratories and the like. An important part of the law also applies to food for animals, from the aspect of the regulation of conditions for the production of additives and ingredients intended for animal nutrition. This is significant because quality and safe food for animals is an important assumption of quality and health-resistant animal products for humans, such as milk, meat and eggs. In addition to the Food Safety Act, as a roof law, it is also important to follow laws regarding plant health, plant nutrition, and plant protection. The importance of these laws stems from the fact that the globalisation of trade, climate change, the constant growth of international plant transport also carries an increasing risk of the introduction and spread of harmful organisms that can endanger our agricultural cultures and forest ecosystems. A large number of harmful organisms can even question the survival of a plant species, and the potential economic consequences could be enormous. Hence, preventing the introduction and spread of harmful organisms of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, trade in plants must be subject to legislation guaranteeing the application of international standards on phytosanitary measures, which I believe is adequate and prescribed by the proposed laws. When it comes to plant protection, procedures for their registration and publication on the list approved for practical use, the first and most important measure to achieve a high level of protection of human and animal health, as well as protection of the environment, is. Because it's potentially very dangerous, i.e. toxic solutions and compounds, it is necessary that agricultural producers strictly adhere to the instructions on application, as well as to comply with the prescribed karenc. It is also a huge responsibility for our phytosanitary inspectors who are entrusted with supervision and control, because it is extremely important that our citizens, our consumers of agricultural and food products, be sure that the fruits and vegetables they consume are health-resistant and that it does not contain residues of pesticides and other plant protection products. Today's session also includes two new laws in the field of tourism and services, namely the Tourism Act and the Household Act. The proposed laws first and foremost bring domestic legislation into line with EU law in this area. Serbia is a country with huge tourism potentials in all segments of continental tourism. Our mountains, our rivers, our lakes, our spas, our capital Belgrade, our villages are valuable tourist resources. They become increasingly interesting year after year and more visited tourist destinations by many both domestic and foreign tourists. Serbia has been recording good results and positive trends in tourism in recent years, both by the number of tourists and by the foreign exchange inflow reached. For example, in 2017, the foreign exchange inflow from tourism was more than a billion and 200m euros. As early as 2018, according to preliminary estimates, this inflow increased by about 15%. Tourism is an area that undoubtedly provides great opportunities for the development and economic progress of our society. The potentials are great, but additional investments are needed to make our tourist destinations as attractive and attractive as possible for tourists. It is also important that our standards in tourism and catering businesses are in line with international standards. It is also important to ensure good co-operation and better coordination among all the entities in this sector, starting with the creators of the tourist offer, through the bearer of the same, i.e. the caterer, all the way to those entities that are involved in the promotion and sale of tourist products. This coordination implies both vertical and horizontal coherence, because it is the only way to provide a quality tourist offer that will be both attractive and attractive, but also affordable on the world's selected tourism market. I believe that the adopted laws will contribute to the improvement of our country's tourist offer, in line with the ambitious, but also the achieved objectives of the prescribed Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia. Starting with all of this, and especially given the importance and value of tourism for the development and economic prosperity of our society, the importance of modern, efficient and rational state administration, as well as the demands and expectations of our citizens to have exclusively health-safe food on our market, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws from a united review of this assembly session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51934	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51935	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers with Associates today is indeed one of the most important laws, if I may afford the right to ever build laws of importance, because every law affects the lives of us ordinary people more or less. Today, respecting everything my colleagues have said in the debate so far about legal proposals, I decided to pay a little more attention to the Tourism Act. Since the law that we are changing was fundamentally adopted in 2009, changed between 2011 and 2015, if I am not mistaken, it is obvious that the previous law was not a good platform for the development of tourism in Serbia, i.e. that what is happening in Serbia has exceeded the legal frameworks. I must commend one extraordinary systematicity in the preparation of this law. What I want in particular to point out and nominate as a serious topic of thinking, which is when it comes to the strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with the obligation of those who prepare the strategy not to take it as merely a mere fulfillment of the form, but indeed as a key and essential issue for the implementation of this law, in general, for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia. It is not just the development of tourism that will create greater safety for travellers through travel agencies, ways of organising it, renting vehicles and other things. Tourism in Serbia, however, is much more than that. It seems to me, I may be wrong to estimate that one of the weakest areas of tourism in Serbia is nautical tourism. Serbia, which has exceptional potential in its water rivers, in the Danube, in the Sava, in Tisa, in the Thamis, in Begej, and perhaps in the less watery rivers but which are attractive to another kind of nautical tourism, when it comes to Drina, Kolubara, part of the Great Morava, lakes in Serbia, are something that is an extraordinary treasure that we have not learned, nor have begun to use properly. In order for this strategy to take place in a future period, as prescribed by the law, I think that direct and direct co-operation is very important, both the tourism ministries, but also the Ministry of Infrastructure, Construction, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Ecology, means those ministries primarily, and then, including all those other ministries in those segments that are less touching this area and these developments. Why? We must, safeguarding the environment, bring it to an appropriate level, protecting our waters, guarding our rivers, first from ourselves and then from our industry, and from those we want to bring as tourists, means not only Serbian citizens but also foreigners who know that they appreciate Serbia's beauty, but sometimes they are not in a position to see them because they have not heard of them, and they are not satisfied with what they have been given infrastructureally. Serbia must seriously consider, in the coming period, that when it comes to infrastructure, it provides, both planically and systematically, and not ad hoc, to build new ports, new ports, new berths, to ensure at least minimum conditions for start-up, which is that those who deal with nautical tourism and enjoy it can safely refuel, safely across the environment and the river where they are located or lake, fill their vessel with fuel, so that they can supply drinking water, food, have a secure berth in every respect, both from weather, from weather accidents, and other safety reasons. This is not just a matter of money that Serbia will provide. You know, the view from the water to Belgrade, and the fact is that over the past few years, there has been a huge increase in the number of landings and arrivals of those big cruisers and, if I'm not mistaken, I've heard some information that more than 70 have been agreeing over the past year, is not only the potential to earn some money in Belgrade or in some other places where these cruisers agree, but to ensure the conditions to see those beauty of Belgrade and other cities or the untouched nature of the water, because this is a general impression of the country of Serbia. Let us not forget that sometimes everything is a bit of a policy and that those who pass through Serbia, and when they have the opportunity to see all these beauty that Serbia has, to learn about the hospitality and kindness of the Serbian host, and then even if they get what they expect from some of these common standards that I have talked about a little while ago when it comes to infrastructure, and that they feed on agricultural products that achieve agricultural households, etc. popular healthy food, then it can represent one serious and generally rounded story. We are witnesses that many local self-governments, trying to hear about their municipalities, so, let's say, Love and Mali Zvornik both have their regattas on the Drina River, somavida, events and events, but it is only one of the small segments that should be put together in one serious brain, in order to do so for the Republic of Serbia, and also for those environments to gain the proper importance. We need to make the rivers watery, we need to pay attention, we need to invest in it, we need to ensure that the waterways are marked, we need to ensure that the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel and the channels that intersect Vojvodina, which are also one great treasure and very great interest, and even for domestic and let alone foreign tourists, the boatmen, are walking in their entire length. By cleaning these channels, editing, translation, will not only benefit nautical tourism or tourism in general, but it will be an exceptional benefit for agriculture itself and for its primary production in terms of irrigation of these areas. Therefore, investing in nautical tourism in future times, through the form of fishing tourism, through the form of an even bigger and more organised arrival of large cruisers through individual arrivals to vessels, by keeping as long as possible through Serbia, a good information system, but, above all, by providing infrastructure, is simply something that, if done in this way, will be the real effect and purpose of passing this law. The law is a good basis but I really nominate this topic as one of the serious topics to think about in the future and to approach it in such a way as to simply round up the planned and systematic something and the business of purpose, to take advantage of that wealth that we have, and to keep it on the other hand, from falling apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51936	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51937	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support the draft laws on today's agenda, as well as that we support the Government of Serbia's policy on modernising and improving the work and quality of life in our country. When it comes to the Law establishing the Central Register of Population, it is only a logical trace of the digitisation that is being carried out in our country and it is merely a insistence that the state administration be a service to the citizens and be at the service of the citizens. As the government of the Republic of Serbia has just put digitisation at the very top of its political agenda, it is actively working on this job, starting from passing legal regulation to getting equipment and staff training. It is certain that this central population register will contribute to faster and better communication between public administration employees, who will now be able to access all the necessary information by just one click, reduce the cost and use of paper and also enable citizens to exercise their rights without having to adopt documents, because now the state will do so for them. We want to regulate our system by respecting the modern and developed countries of the European Union. If we look at the statistics, it shows that these countries have just been defined for a system like this, for a database like this, that's being run in a centralised way. I remind you that in 2016 it was the deadline for our local self-governments to transfer their parent books into electronic form and in this way to equate electronic and classical business and this is our country's quest to catch up with the world and make up for what has been missed. This bill lays down a basis to ensure the management of a single, centralised and reliable database, which will contain accurate and updated data and which will be state-owned, with insight into the possibilities of state bodies, public enterprises and institutions. Administrative and all other procedures conducted at different levels of government will be more effective, and this will allow the Central Register to have insight into the analysis of socio-economic movements and to analyse the existing situation in this way, and to create public policies in the field of health, education, infrastructure and, in this way, by this argument, to define budget funds and determine which projects are priority. The process itself of collecting and entering data is decentralised, so eleven different official records will be united, and citizens will be able to see the data that they are referring to to, if incorrect, or if they need to be corrected. So the digitization of society and economy is our priority, our great chance of being economical, efficient, competitive, that we have faster sustainable development, which, of course, will affect the height of wages and pensions, but also the quality of life itself. If we talk about the positive effects of digitisation and the company itself, it is certain that companies that digitise their business in time will be able to connect with customers and enter global supply chains. Harmonisation of national standards rules is very important and a strong instrument for global integration and building a unique economic space and a stimulating environment for attracting investment. If we are talking about attracting investment, it is certain that our country has done much in this field over the past few years since politics in our country is old Alexander Vukic. Serbia is now a country that is the leader of the region, which has positioned itself as a stability factor in the region, which sends a different message to investors and sends a message that it is ready to recover its economy and develop it. We are now a destination that is suitable for investment, and that is exactly what has helped our country in the past few years to open up new factories in almost every district, open new places, because it is the only way to start our economy and that is what our citizens support. However, those who protest today on the streets of Belgrade and some other cities are trying to achieve these results and are, in fact, trying to return to their positions that they once had, either locally or at a republican level, and at which they have shown how they treat the state, how they refer to the budget and how these funds are available to citizens. What is common to all of them is that they have devastated everything they have touched, that they have made huge debts, that they have devastated the infrastructure, that they have invested nothing but their wealth that they have increased and that they have brought the country before bankruptcy. So there's no new faces. These are all people who are previously known in politics, who have proven themselves and whose mandates relate to different affairs and malfeasances. Some opposition MPs today at various conferences in the hall of the Assembly, which can be said to have come touristic, while we are already speaking in the spirit of the Tourism Act, holding conferences in the hall, trying to justify the salary they receive, because they do not enter this hall, they want to send a message to run some kind of parallel parliament. However, the debate takes place here. They were delegated here by Serbian citizens who voted for them. They are obliged to represent these citizens and to stand up for them. But what we have today is a completely different situation. They're trying to force the streets to take power. So, the power is won in the elections, regularly, with the support of the citizens, not violently or by any means in the streets. The citizens, of course, have seen this kind of policy, i.e. the absence of politics, and each time have shown that they support only SNS policy and that the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic has no alternative. When it comes to legislation in the area of agriculture, one law refers to food safety, and the other to plant protection. So, first of all, it is about a clear division of competence between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and what I would particularly stress is the establishment of a Directorate for National Reference Laboratorys. What is very important is the system of official laboratories that will analyse the samples, one national reference laboratory that will control their work and what is important for these laboratories to be accredited, to be internationally recognised as competent, to be well equipped, to be trained in human beings and to be able to monitor scientific achievements and to give appropriate professional expertise. These laboratories will certainly be independent and impartial in their work, which is very important and will cover 95% of the products on the market. What I would like to point out when it comes to the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, is the establishment of a laboratory for quality control of milk in 2018, which had originally been tasked with verifying the hygiene of milk, to help determine the price of raw milk and also to assist in selecting the production features of cattle. When it comes to the Law on plant-nutrition and land-mining products, it is a priority to preserve human health, soil and water and to keep these products under constant control in order to determine whether they meet the prescribed conditions. And in this area, a database will be set up for what the IPA Fund was defined for in 2012, which will establish a sustainable system that will contain all this data. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of Plants, the proposed amendments are adopted in order to prevent the introduction and spread of micro-organisms that may endanger or question the survival of certain plant species, which would naturally negatively affect both agriculture and the economy of our country and in order for Serbia to trade and be part of a world trade organisation, it must guarantee its legal regulation and implementation of relevant laws to meet international standards on phytosanitary measures. When it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, the aim is, of course, to protect domestic producers and to meet them in every way, as it seems through IPARD funds launched and for which competitions were scheduled during 2018. As Minister Nedimovic pointed out on the Committee on Agriculture yesterday, all incentives for 2018 will be paid by the end of March, i.e. the return of funds from 50% to 70% for the purchase of tractors, machinery and equipment. Also, fuel subsidies and our agricultural producers have been granted just a few days before the application can be expected to be granted payment of these subsidies. Also agreed was exports of beef to Turkey and exports of wheat to Egypt and these are all incentives from the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, investment in irrigation systems. Our prime minister, Ana Brnabic, pointed out yesterday on business form that in the procedure of obtaining the first 28 anti-building stations that go in a 100 package to prepare our country to be resistant to climate change and to help our agricultural producers improve their production. When it comes to the Law on Tourism and Restaurants, the results are an analysis of the situation on the tourist market and an examination of the problems of tourism operators. The most important task we have ahead of us is actually to curb the gray economy. This law puts the protection of the rights of users of these tourist trips first, regulates the field of electronic sales of tourist travel, car rental, data protection, and also introduces wider powers of tourist inspections. What Serbia wants is to promote its tourist destinations. It wants to make them competitive on the international market and achieve a sustainable, dynamic, coherent and competitive growth on sustainability and economics principles and based on a confirmed quality of services on our recognizable identity and authenticity in international frameworks. In 2015, for the first time since seven years of negative trend, tourism traffic in Serbia has for the first time been growing and up to the day of today it maintains this trend, and it is certain that this result has been first contributed by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the tourism potentials of our country, in the spa, in the equipment of all the facilities that tourists are looking for, and also by bringing vouchers for the sub-resided use of annual holidays, which were used in 2018 alone by 100,000. So everyone who's planned and fulfilled the budget is this way. Tourists most often opt for our spas – Vrnjačka, Soko Banjo, Ribarska, Prolom, but also for Kopalnik and Zlatibor. I say again, all of this is the result of one serious and responsible relationship between the state and our potentials that have been devastated for years. It was inconceivable that during the conduct of earlier policies it was investing in these areas. So we are now seriously investing in motels and tourist facilities and sports fields and in swimming pools open and closed and free surfaces, in cultural centres, but also in the restoration of fortresses. So we have one serious approach to create all the content that tourists attract and enable our country to promote in this way. Given the priority of the digitisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the development of the electronic administration, a central information system is being introduced in the field of catering, therefore, e-tourism, which will allow our users to have insight into all accommodation facilities, to provide accommodation services to reduce procedures and increase the efficiency of the collection, but also security itself. I'd just like to read a few results on tourism and hospitality. So, in 2018, an increase in the number of tourists in our country of 11.2% was recorded, and this number of arrivals by foreign tourists registered an increase of 14.2%. When it comes to the City of Belgrade, an increase of 11.8% was recorded in the number of tourists' arrivals. Such a trend also retains the banish places, mountain centers. When it comes to nights, these numbers are also on the rise. According to NBS in 2018, a foreign exchange inflow of 1.3 billion higher than in the same period of 2017 was achieved. So, significant investments, accelerated modernisation is our country's goal of making up for lost time. I repeat, ever since the policy of the old Alexander Vucic and SNS is really intensely invested, but it is the first result of a responsible and dedicated policy that has provided four years back surplus in the budget, i.e. provided funds for investment in all these areas, but also one serious and responsible approach to our potentials that need to be developed and those that need to be discovered, because there is certain that there are still many spas that are abundant in thermal and mineral waters, their capacities have not yet been exploited. Our relationship with these potentials is visible and the president of Serbia is within the campaign "Future of Serbia", visits every district, presents the results and presents plans for the future period, talks with citizens who are gathering in large numbers and presents plans related to further development of our country, investment and Vrnjak, both in Sijarinska and Kursumlijska Banj and all other places, in order to start these areas and help our people to start their own economy, to work, to open their working targets and to make our tourist potentials live. That's what's causing the stable funding. From there we find a source of income and the result of a dedicated and responsible policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Taking into account all of the above, the SNS parliamentary group will support proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51938	Thank you. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Then we move to a debate on the list of registered speakers. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51939	Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to be here tonight in this room and talk about the draft laws that will bring a lot of good. First of all, I have great pleasure that I can and as a MP vote to adopt, first of all, the Food Safety Act. The minister already spoke in the opening statement how important it is for Serbia to get a reference national food law laboratory. I believe all MPs in voting day will support it. What I would like to address at the outset, first of all, Minister Ruzic, about the Proposal for a Law on the Central Population Register. A colleague who spoke before me has already said all the good things, but Mr. Ruzic, what I wanted to ask you is, none of us MPs will say anything against digitisation and all that is good, what e-government can bring, above all, to local self-governments and everyone else, but what I would like to warn you about is that we have almost a million residents living in mountain-mounted areas. It's usually an ageing population, and it can't even know modern technologies. Why am I telling you this? I think it is very important that the Ministry recognises the importance of what used to be the offices of local communities and local community referents in the parent areas which were the only link between the municipality and the state with households that once lived and 30-40km away from municipal sites. This law is intended to enter into force in September 2020, but I believe that by that time it must be possible to help people who are neither known enough nor trained, nor have technical opportunities to have computers in their homes, and therefore I think it is necessary to consider leaving the parent areas and that what we had before, and local offices in the rural area, and this is now envisaged more or less, that everything is being abolished and that the municipality is one parent area, to consider helping these people. I just before commended the amendments to the Food Safety Act and, in general, Mr. Minister Nedimovic, there's a lot of good in the Ministry to be commended, but colleagues have already done it, I wouldn't do it, I'd like to ask you a few specific things. Last year 2018 probably for the Serbian agrarian, above all for our Shumadi was probably the hardest in 30 years. Everything that could have hit us has hit us all. I'm just asking you, it's a good thing the Ministry came out with 70 percent subsidies for insurance policy incentives, but based on what, for example, the Shumadian County didn't go in there? Look, we have information that the Kolubari, Moravisky, I'd like to hear it from you now, so what about the Goldibor, or the Shumadian and the Danube County? You're the very witnesses that we've suffered significant damage in the previous year, and this is the place and the opportunity for us to hear from you that exactly the districts have entered, because here, I say different chatters are being transmitted and you said yourself that this information can be half-true or true, so I'd like to hear from you what districts have entered for 70 percent of the insurance policy incentives? The second question, my colleague said, and I commend it, is that the procedure has begun for the purchase of automatic launchers that will go around Serbia, but what about the shooters, on April 15th, the city's defence season begins, what about the fees of the shooters who work, and these fees are really funny, amounting to 2,000 dinars provided by the Ministry, 2,000 dinars of local self-government and no one will, currently we can't hire people at all by local self-government to work for that money. Since I only have five minutes at my disposal, I'd like to just hear from you what is the situation with the purchase of anti-building missiles? Is there going to be anti-urban missiles this year, or are there not going to be, that simple and local self-governments know if they're going to get it in the first part of the season? The season starts on April 15th, runs until October 15th. We've got plenty of time, but we've got to organize well, praise for the bill. I'm just asking you to answer these specific questions that I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51940	Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51941	I thank the esteemed president. For the first time, I speak as an independent MP, and for the first time, I will have five minutes of time at one session in the last three years. I want to begin by congratulating one minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia for gathering courage and saying what would be normal for all of us who took an oath in this high house to behave on different grounds, and that is Dr Nenad Popovic. I absolutely support it because it's something that's contrary to defetist statements that can be heard from different officials lately. Second, our nature disappears before our eyes. Look at the data of all international institutions, and we make a lot of contributions to that. At yesterday's session of the Agriculture Committee, I said the minister was familiar with the case of bee poisoning, and I handed over material to the chairman of the Agriculture Committee. What's causing it? The minister says we have zero tolerance for genetically modified organisms in production and trade. I'd like, since you're replacing the Minister of Trade at this session right now, to tell me what percentage of import shipments are subject to sampling and control in laboratories, at least in agricultural and food products? Secondly, I was accompanied by a foreign minister of agriculture. In the final talks with our Minister of Agriculture, we were just the three of us in the cabinet of the Ministry. He asked him if there was a disease of mad cows in Serbia? It says no. Do you have a lab that can determine that? He says we don't. Then how do you know you don't have mad cow disease? Two weeks or three years ago, all the information funds announced that Bayer's rape seed was sown in Germany and France at eight thousand hectares in France, three thousand hectares in Germany, isolated because it was genetically modified because it was imported under the Bajer production contract in Argentina. Look at our agricultural pharmacies, what we're importing from Bayer, I'm not saying it's genetically modified, but with the origin of production from Argentina or other countries where GMOs are particularly present. It is said that if we speak against GMOs, we must take care of the drugs. Please, sick people cannot be equated with food, or medicines cannot be equal with food. Sick people are directed to use, to grab hold of the last straw that offers them some salvation, but food must be the most important cure in people's lives. I would believe that we have zero tolerance for GMOs if we had results, because here, take out, please, the data did we and how much surface control did we have on the presence of GMOs planted under the oiled tail? Did we even control the surface of GMOs under corn? You weren't a minister back then, but I remember very well when a sample of GMO corn was found in Serbia and when a big panic arose over it. Fortunately, it was just instantaneous and spontaneous and the thing went away. I would believe that we have zero tolerance, and if the Russian Federation of World Trade Organisation Members has passed Law 667, which has treated all GMO producers and distributors, as well as chemical products producers in the function of GMO production, as terrorists. Can we do that? Can we let the people decide what they're going to do? We are asking for the support of the people, each of you, as politicians, to vote for you, and we have no confidence in letting the people in a referendum declare whether they are against something. Look at what Switzerland and other countries are doing. So in the Law on genetically modified organisms, ministers, Article 4, you have 15 defined terms. Among these 15 defined terms, you have no idea of genetically defined food. See Article 4. The law. So, please explain to the citizens what genetically modified food is and why in this Article 2, where the content of Article 5 is changed, there is genetically modified food with no indication of who it is, and beyond that genetically modified food for animals. Why doesn't it say that genetically modified food is also for humans?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51942	Thank you. Do any of the ministers want a word? The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51943	Thank you. I would like, first of all, that what several representatives of the parliamentary groups have said, to answer the questions, since I think that's the correct thing to do. I'll look first of all at the part Mr. Jovanovic mentioned, and then I'll look back on this last one, and we've got something for tourists. Zlatiborski, Moraviski, Kolubarski, plus Podunavski and Šumadiski, these are areas where insurance subsidies will be 70%, based on the analysis done. The analysis referred to the space most exposed to city clouds in the previous five years. This is the measure of financial protection of that space from all the damage resulting from city events. In addition, a system of automatic anti-urban protection is being built today in the Colubary district area, 28 facilities are almost 99, and I think we're going to finish the whole district this year. These are areas where, without human crews, modern systems are managed and treated by these clouds by anti-urban missiles. It has been done by the DRI review of the integrity of the entire anti-urban protection process, they have made proposals and we will initiate amendments to the laws on which there will be no more problems as it has been related to anti-urban protection, especially with regard to anti-urban shooters. There were questions concerning GMOs. I would ask once more, respect the profession, respect the titles, respect the years, respect everything, but don't, please, deceive this people. These stories about allowing production in Serbia, the transport of GMOs, it absolutely does not stand. You have the Law on genetically modified organisms that clearly says that with zero tolerance. Last year, or every year, the Plant Protection Authority, together with the MUP, controls the space and possible plantations and automatically burns, disappears if that happens. You can't function in any form at a 100% negative event. That's impossible. Now, let's get back to the crazy cows. Of course there is an institution that worships BSE control on the line, which is the Scientific Veterinary Institute. Let me tell you one thing, I think it's been since 1988, I guess when this crazy cow disease was first diagnosed, I mean in Great Britain, and you'll agree, since then, it's been one 30 years. Here, for you, for MPs exclusive information. Today we received a notice from the World Organisation for Animal Health that Serbia is on the list of countries with a minimal risk of mad cow disease. It's based on monitoring and everything that's been done over the past year and a half, it's got that kind of status that's going to open a lot of doors for us in terms of trade, how about no longer having to be controlled on the line of bows, because we're the space that's protected, but that's got to be done, too. Why someone 30 years didn't do it, I really don't know, and I don't want to get into it, but this is the answer to that question. As for the Chinese, the tourists and everything else, I just want to say one more thing. It was through one discussion. The government of the Republic of Serbia, on 15 January 2017, was then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, made a decision to abolish the visa regime with China, which allowed such an inflow of tourists. For this reason, the government uses all available measures, including incentives, to improve this branch of social life as much as possible. I, as far as I have succeeded in perceiving all questions, would like to thank all MP groups, or their authorised persons, who have supported the draft laws. I think it's very important and absolutely tomorrow during the debate I will engage and answer all the questions. And I would also like to thank the president for giving me the opportunity to answer these questions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51944	Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51945	Thank you. Thank you for the answers to the current situation, although it's been a long time since the disease of mad cows, Mr. Minister. However, I would like to ask you, the two questions that we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, one refers to testing the assets of the chemical protective machines, which was postponed until 2022, or 2023, and the other, the Bank of Genoa, which is now under jurisdiction, as you lawyers say, the National Laboratory. Can I get your opinion and your answers for the public and colleagues who asked for it? Can a change be made in the proposal for these laws in this context, to approve and reduce the period, i.e. the testing of the chemical protection of plant production and others, so that the gene bank is separated from the National Laboratory, Seed Bank and fruit material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51946	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51947	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry I started talking earlier. If I were to tell you the truth, if we had gotten those amendments, we would have considered them. Mr Risticevic proposed amendments, the Committee proposed amendments. Yesterday was the time and place to suggest it. I would, let me tell you the truth, consider it. Since there's no ticket, there's no lotto. My hands are tied now, but I'll consider your suggestions anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51948	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, let me tell you that we haven't extended our hours today. We're working until 6:00. If you'll be able to expose your exposure in nine minutes, I'll call you. If not, we'll leave for tomorrow. Ambassador Atlagic, do you accept until 18 o'clock? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51949	Dear President, the introduction of the Central Register of Population is a first-rate matter for our country and food security is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to Minister Nedimovic. I will speak from the position of staff, and I would like to say that I am at the last session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for several professors of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, who have signed the support of the so-called "Students". civil protests, said they didn't have scientific papers on the SCI Thomson-Reuters list. That nameless group of professors, she said I lied. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia know well that I did not lie, which can be checked by anyone entering "Ours in Wos", but they do not know. They lied to themselves and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is a tragedy. Do not forget: Prof. Dr. Marija Bogdanović Zero papers, Prof. Dr. Dr. Sreten Vujović Zero, Prof. Dr. Djokica Jovanovic Zero, Prof. Dr. Milan Ristović Zero, Prof. Dr. Ana Pesikan Zero, Prof. Dr. Tinde Kovac Cerović Zero, Prof. Dr. Siniša Misic Zero, Prof. Dr. Miro Šković Zero, Prof. Dr. Nikola Samardžić, my political opponent, has papers, professor Dr. Jovo Bakić Zero, Prof. Dr. Dubravka Stojanović Zero. Honorable MPs, Professor Stojanovic, said I lied at the National Assembly session. Of course not. She is a liar because she lied that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, in his speech in Kosovo Mitrovica, called for Nikola Velimirovic and academics Dobric Cosic, which means, I quote Dubravka Stojanovic, not accepting the rule of law and pluralist political culture, asphyxiation of freedom and human rights," finished the quote. Not a single word quoted by Aleksandar Vukic in Kosovo Mitrovica, but Dubravka Stojanovic is planting and lying because Aleksandar Vukic in Kosovo Mitrovica said, quote: "The people have given me confidence, and the mandate has given me to do exactly what bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic wrote. If I have to defend myself, I'm gonna shut up. If I have to defend the truth, I will speak," finished the quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected university professors, so Professor Stojanovic lies about Aleksandr Vukic. That's her range. However, it is not the only lie given by distinguished Professor Stojanovic. On February 17th, 2014, she said, quoting: "Serbia lost 700,000 people in the First World War" and thus reduced the number of victims by at least 400,000. This ranks the largest forgers of the number of Serbian victims in the First and Second World War with historians and scientists Dr. Franjo Tudjman, academician Stjepan Sense, who said five thousand were killed in Jasenovac, an academic named Pečaric, who said that five thousand and other scientists were killed in Jasenovac. You should not be surprised, because Professor Stojanovic opposes raising the monument to Serbian heroes Milan Tepic and Gavril Principe, as well as marking the Storm. She told Gabriel Principe, and I quote, like Austrian and German historians, that a terrorist, not an assassin, is a complete quote. They are not the only pearls of Professor Stojanovic. It advocates that, I quote, Serbia give up KIM and Republika Srpska, a quote. And not only that, she says that Serbia's biggest problem, which I quote, is a finished quote in wars, which means that it should have accepted fascism and freedom, and does not know that Mrs Stojanovic's spirit is a free spirit and that one of the elements of Serbia's national identity is a victorious and free spirit. Docent Dr Jovo Bakic, a ten-year-old professor, has given for graduate work, you will be shocked, quote, "The role of Pink and Happy TV in creating and reproduced the cult of the leader and an analysis of the content of the hosting of Aleksandr Vucic in the shows of Cyrillic and Heavy Word", finished quote. It is as if I have given the topic of doctoral dissertation – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the reproduction of cults of ignorance, insolence, political unculture and diletarianism – the case of Jovo Bakic, Dr Dubravka Stojanovic. This scientific and political conjecture, Jovo Bakic, said on January 17th 2016, that Aleksandar Vukic, an excavator, Angela Merkel, has completed a quote. It is as if I said that Dr. Dr. Jovo Bakic is an asshole for Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. Dear People's MPs, they said I had two papers on the SCI list. It's so much like the entire Department of Philosophy. Thirty professors at the History Department, all together have two on the SCIMAgo list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-05-0.u51950	Thank you. We're done for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with a list of speakers. Thank you very much.
