ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-03-0.u53395	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 135 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the vote by MP Djordje Milicevic. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, parliament has been informed. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 9 of the agenda. I put the draft Health Insurance Act to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: for—135 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted for three MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by Aleksandra Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 10th Amendment tabled by the Belief of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risicevic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19, which was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 32 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 44, which was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 52 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 52 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 52 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 53 tabled by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the 60th vote by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 66, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 67, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 69 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 73 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 73, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 77, which was tabled by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 79, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I put the amendments to article 79 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 84 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 89 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 94 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 96 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 104, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 104 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 110th vote by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 114, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 114, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to article 120 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 125 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 129, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 133, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 140th vote by MP Radoslav Jovic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to article 142, which was tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 232, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting the amendments to the 270th vote by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 273 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 277 which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 277 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the bill on health insurance, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a bill on health insurance has been adopted, in general. I put the bill on health care, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find the law accepted, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-03-0.u53396	I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – none, of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, from 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, has any of the 136 messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has, of 137. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-03-0.u53397	Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendments to Article 36 to vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 39th legislator, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 39 to vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 41 to vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 42 to vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 45 to vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 50 to vote. Marine Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 60 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 60 to vote. Ljiljana Mihajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 62 to vote. Slavica Zivkovic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. I'm putting the amendments to Article 64 to vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 64 to vote. Marine Ristic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 65 to vote. Miles of Miletic. I conclude the vote: two MPs voted for it. I am putting the amendments to the 70th Parliament of Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the vote on the 75th Parliament of the Parliament of Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted in favour. I'm putting the amendments to Article 75 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 75 to vote. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 76 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 78 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 82 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 82 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 86 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 100 to vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 113 on the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 116 to vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 127 to vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 132 to vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 141 to vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 151 to vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 181 to vote. Hope Kostic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 219 to vote. Ljiljana Mihajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 223 to vote. Young Grujic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 265 to vote. Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 269 to vote. The goddess Delic. I conclude the vote: one MP voted for it. Since we've completed our decision on amendments, I'm putting to the vote a bill on health care, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – one, with abstention – there are no, five MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on health care. I put to the vote the draft law on general use matters, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to be put to the vote, which is added to Article 25a after Article 25a. Milljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on general use matters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on matters of general use. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Substances Act used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted eight MPs for – 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Boyjic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Substances Act used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Substances Act used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the validation of the Act establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 144, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of votes. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 versus – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of votes. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for— 133, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Securities Commission as a whole. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the proposal for a medal. Let me congratulate Mark Jankovic on the election of the President of the Securities Commission on your behalf and on my behalf. We're moving on to a decision on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on 28 March 2019, at 14 hours and three minutes he pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please plead. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the third session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. The session is closed at 10.40 hours. )
