ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the sitting to be attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 2187. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55350	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say at the very beginning is that Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region and Serbia has a clear and principled position that if there are open issues between countries in the region, it is resolved through dialogue, not through unilateral acts and by no violence and no conflict. It seems that the principled attitude and the principled commitment of Serbia do not support and do not accept countries in the region. They do not give up provocations from Croatia. For example, President Grabar Kitarovic said that the Serbian state should normalise and that Serbian politicians should normalise. This same Grabar Kitarovic, I remind you, said that Croatians and Albanians were brothers in arms, and that many Albanians sacrificed their lives for Croatia, "The Storm" considered a legitimate ethnic clean operation, promoted Marko Perkovic Tomson, a singer who in his performances excelled in the mouths and mouths, said that in Croatia there was no difference between the Serbian parliament and Fascism, Vukovar was walking in the zenga of boots carried by individual Croatian paramilitary formations during the war. So someone who celebrates the uprising sends a message like this. In addition to reminding you, the "Stars" water polos were attacked in the center of Split with sticks and sticks, and several players were injured. The "Red Stars" water poloists were attacked at a coffee shop in Split, and one of them jumped into the sea to save himself. In the past ten days alone, two attacks have taken place, brutally beating two seasonal workers in Brac, while a third Serb under the threat of hooligans from the Torcida fan group has been expelled from Dubrovnik. My question concerns something that happened last weekend, the past two weekends, and it is just about Mrs Grabar Kitarovic's statement. In fact, since I've been in sports my whole life, so I have sports-related information, it seems to me that what was going on is undetected in public, and I think that should be dealt with by competent authorities, competent institutions, and I think the Serbian public. Namely, the youth football selection OFK Požega from 11 to 12 years old was in Italy last weekend. At the border with Croatia, they demanded to turn the shirts on which OFK Požega Serbia was written and that they were absolutely nowhere to be held. The question is, why? Selection of Čukaričkik, the same year, was in Zagreb, I ask the question - is it true that the coach and youth selection coordinator were attacked and left Zagreb accompanied? For the sake of the findings, similar tournaments were held in Belgrade last year, titled "Dragan Mance", as well as in Zlatibor on 1 May, and in Zlatibor last weekend where there were more selections from Croatia, did representatives of younger Croatian selections have one problem in Serbia? Of course not, and that's the difference between them and us. Here is a fundamental question – who should normalise their behaviour, us or politicians from Croatia who, with inflammatory statements and the grandeur of the constitution, lead to exactly this kind of situation? Their media defends it the following way, says – parents should understand that they have no right to embarrass the club, tournament and country, as some Croatian volunteers have done today. If that's an excuse, it's an honor, but the point is whether children should survive, whether children deserve it, or whether they should think about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55351	Thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55352	Thank you, President. I'm referring to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. At a recent regional conference on security and reform management in Southeastern Europe, organised by the Slovak Presidency of the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, as well as the OSCE Secretariat and Mission in Serbia, one of the main conclusions was the need to form local security councils. Also, the 2011 Manual for Local Security Councils points out that the legal basis for establishing a Security Council stems from the statutes of cities and municipalities as the basic legal act of the units of local self-government rather than from a more legal force act, such as the law. Therefore, the possibility of establishing and forming a Security Council is left to every local self-government and there is no unique way of setting up, but the modality of setting up a Security Council differs. We of the SDPS believe that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government should launch an initiative to form local security councils or is there a possibility that, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government in Article 36, changes and additions should be carried out in order to make Council formation a binding act for local self-government? In addition to Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, as good examples, awareness needs to be developed in other local self-governments, as well as responsibility for this problem, and this is primarily an improvement of economic, social, environmental security and security in emergency situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55353	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55354	Thank you, Chairman. I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, meaning, the Ministry of Ecology, the Ministry of Agriculture, but primarily the city of Belgrade – for what reason has it come to the situation that citizens of mosquitoes cannot go out into the streets, parks, gardens, fields, and what has been delayed with a timely reaction when it comes to curbing mosquito larvae and not using the time that was suitable for this type of action? In addition, what I have to say as someone who lives in Obrenovac, i.e. in Stublins and the villages, is that it's really incomprehensible and unclear for what reason since 2014, there has been no serious action to contain mosquitoes from the air, because what might have an effect here in the city's core, when it comes to the Sava Venac, Old Town or the center of Obrenovac, etc. pollination from a vehicle that fogs these certain green areas, when it comes to rural areas that are huge, disintegrated, except for the splash from the plane, simply, nothing yields any result. In previous days, we also had that the pollination of mosquitoes was carried out on the territory of Obrenovac, however, the result was almost never achieved. I wonder if, by some urgent procedure and a shortened procedure, the agricultural aviation that Serbia has and with the use of these funds, from dusting planes will really react, because people are not able in villages around Obrenovac to go out into the field, to go out into the garden, to do agricultural work. Because what's dusted from the ground is too late and hasn't produced any results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55355	Thank you. The word is Grodan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55356	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to ask questions, please, since we don't hear from each other, everyone here is talking to themselves and no one is following anyone, Minister Ružić, Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, City Secretariat of Environmental Protection, Ivana is on vacation, there everyone is dead, no one has a replacement, wherever anyone works, no one works, because if someone goes on vacation, institutions stop with work and Mrs Neli Kuburovic, of whom I ask for protection of legality. What's this about? On Voždovac, on Ljermont Street, where the seat belt is to the saltier, from the first row highway and 40 meters in total, I have lived there for 50 years. When I moved in, there was no bush, everything was built, except for this protective belt, where the house was torn down, and there were orchards, trees growing for 50 years. Then a young man showed up for the last 15 days, and later he came with his father, that's Lermont's 6 and 8, passing through, should be on the highway out, that's 40 meters. Here is the violation of the first law, Article 34, that's the Law on Ways with Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. So we don't crash later, this is a buffer zone. The man showed up. I've got a video here. I don't want to show any other footage. This is the Service of Urbanism. I don't know when this is updated, but there's a house here that was torn down 50 years ago. There are some lines drawn here, there are lot numbers. With reasonable doubt, we citizens who live here, about six thousand of us, feel that this is deliberately so arranged that nothing can be updated, "that it can be but it doesn't have to". And now on that belt from 40 meters to the saltier on Lermont Street, this boy was told in the municipality to clear the terrain and build a garden there. But he didn't want to go to the garden in Pinosava, in Barai, he's making gardens in Lermont, at 30 acres. He dug a path on that green area of 50 meters, and it's 15 meters wide, I'm not me, I'm not an engineer, I'm not a geometry. He took out the trees, cut down 50 years old, and cleaned up that tampon zone, which he cares about, because he has a book on Grandpa. And that goes for community police. The first police to come, I had a problem, from November 29th, because she interrogated me there as if she was a prosecutor, but, uh, a team came in, people knew their job, took data, took pictures, etc. The next day, however, a man came in with a bogeyman and a new 50-ton truck. He didn't send down where the floods were, to do the human work, no, he came to Lermont's, to dig up nicely, to finish digging up those trees he left behind. Why do we need trees? We don't need it. I've notified everything on the site, and City Green. I have their memo - We inform you that this area is not in the program of regular maintenance of green areas, so for information on who is obliged to perform... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55357	You're out of time. Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55358	I thank the chairman. My first question is to the Ministry of Education and Technological Development, or Minister Mladen Sarčević. Who knows which time they leaked the questions from the admission exam to high school. Every time after these incidents, we get assurances from the resolute ministers that if their responsibility is determined they will resign, which was a rare case in 2013, with our colleague today, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who resigned in August 2013, but this does not change the fact that he showed responsibility much greater than his colleagues today. Given that the most stringent security measures have been announced months ago and that only a few people reportedly knew which tasks would be on the entrance exam, the question arises -- how is it possible that the tasks for the admission exam this year have been circulating on the Internet since last night, reportedly solved math tasks? This, of course, was happening during the night and this morning a entrance exam was cancelled for elementary school students who were scheduled to take an entrance exam to high school on the pretext that some spare bags allegedly had missing tasks. There is a lot of contradiction about this situation and my question for Minister Sarcevic: will he resign because of this scandal? I would like to refer the second question to the Ministry of Labour, or Minister Zoran Djordjevic. I don't ask questions about children's problems, as I usually do. This time I want to ask a question about an older population living in the territory of the Kolubara County about building a regional gerantological centre in Valjevo. Namely, the idea of building a gerantological centre was born in 2005 when it was found that more than 160 users from the Kolubar region were actually located in the nursing homes of other regions. The Centre for Social Work then submitted a project to the Embassy of Japan and received a donation from their government to build a building, courtyard and park, infirmary, a care and nutrition space worth 2.5m euros. The memorandum was signed in 2008, but construction began almost a year later. The remaining funds were supposed to provide the city and the Republic, and the value was estimated at a total of 373 million dinars. Unfortunately, in June 2011, both crane and heavy machinery were withdrawn, with official works to build a gerantological centre. In 2013, the City of Valjev site announces the continuation of the construction of the Gerontological Centre, with the assurance of the then secretary, Mrs. Stane Bozovic, that the ministry will give an additional 30 million, realizing that social protection is one of the priority areas in which this ministry is engaged. In 2014, Labour Minister Alexander Vulin said he would do his best to have the Gerontology Centre completed and that he would ask the question why it has not been done so far, that the money received from the Government of Japan was enough for this centre to be completed. In 2017, this same man made a statement that the Gerontological Center was actually pre-named, that he did not know when the facility would be completed and that it was not a matter of completion, but a matter of purpose what we want with this object. I remind you once again of why the construction of this center started in 2005, because older people were placed in other districts rather than in the Colubary County. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, reportedly in talks with the mayor of the city of Valjev, believes this Gerontology Centre will be built, but there is no certainty to date that this will happen. In the meantime, I informed myself about what construction looked like. This is a photo from 2015 of what the object looked like. Unfortunately, this is a photo from only a few months ago, this is what this same facility looks like today. I don't know how much you see in the photo. So, the windows are half-panned, mostly and removed, and this object is left to itself for maintenance. So my question for the Ministry of Labour, or for Minister Zoran Djordjevic, is – when will the regional Gerontology Centre be completed, for which around 3,000 signatures of the citizens of Valjev have been collected in the last few weeks to bring this object to the cause? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55359	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55360	Thank you. My first question goes to the address of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and reads – what, will not but what will the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do about the outrageous incident and scandal that took place yesterday, which made the senior official of the Embassy of Montenegro in Turkey, Mrs Mirna Nikcevic, who, therefore, also for our Balkan occasions, even during wartime declared something that, at the time of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, we could not hear from the highest officials or officials and officials of the states who fought each other? Therefore, by commenting on the great National Assembly, the Assembly in front of the temple of Christ's salvation in Podgorica on July 15th, among other things, said, "I would honestly burn down the temple and all the cattle there." I apologize, this is a consistent quote – I would burn down the temple and all the cattle there. So there were high-ranking Jews of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Mytropolis and other dioceses, thousands of believers, clergy. So, not some puberty, not some burning anonymous commentator on a social network, but the first adviser, so the second man at the embassy of Montenegro in Turkey, declares that he would burn down the temple of Christ's resurrection and all those people gathered there. It's too big, too big a thing to ignore, and that's why my question is -- is it not, but what is it going to do now, at the moment I'm talking about this, our government and the Foreign Ministry are going to take, not some, but very sharp and harshest measures? It is clear that, in the rest of Montenegro's foreign ministry, it has been fenced on it, but this is something much more important and much scarier so that it could only go through in such a way, especially if it could have gone without a clear demarche and some concrete move by the Serbian government. That could be widely discussed, but I want to use this time to ask another question and start another topic. My second question is also going to the Serbian Government's address and I would like to ask for one precision from the competent authorities and services, who negotiates, who officially negotiates with representatives of Pristina in Brussels? So, who is the head of the negotiating team, who has authorized, so by what decision, to simply submit to me as a national MP and to the public the decision by which authority has been given to who conducts the negotiations? We saw the office report at this special session, we heard the president of the Republic who filed the oral report. So, I don't know at the end of the day whether that written report by the Office and Mark Đuric or about that report by Alexander Vukic, but whatever it is, I'd like it to be there, I don't think it would hurt, to bring in the necessary and non-existent amount of transparency regarding the authority of our negotiators, when we don't already know which platform they're negotiating with, then at least let's see who they are officially negotiating. There's only one more note about that. Our side, whatever it means, but representatives of Belgrade's negotiators are constantly pointing out that they are ready to continue talks if taxes are lifted if Pristina cancels the fees. It is, of course, a legitimate requirement, but so much has been said lately that I have a well-founded fear or fear that the whole talk about the platform and the negotiations with Pristina regarding Kosovo and Metohija does not turn into that they finally abolish our fees or at least suspend the validity of those taxis and eventually promise what they should have fulfilled five, six years ago, that Serb community, and that in return, Serbia, or the Serbian side, accept everything required of it in terms of a legally binding agreement. So, yes, it is a legitimate request for the removal of taxis, but it cannot be understood the whole story and the whole Serbian-Government strategy in Belgrade for such a thing that shouldn't have happened, let alone whether it is something that depends now on whether the negotiations will be at all, whether the deal will be. So, not being able to meet something that's an old commitment from five, six years ago in the Brussels Agreement, it's blinding our eyes and then presenting it to the Serbian public as some big success. Lastly, since time is slowly running out, only for the Commercial Bank and the privatisation of the Commercial Bank, the finance ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55361	The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55362	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr Antic – what is happening with the Tchadinje mine at Prepolje? Who does the work and who's behind the work? The mining activity in Čadinja space existed until the Roman era, over the Middle Ages until today. During 1949. In 1950 and 1951, the investigation works on Čadinja in the block of Krastina carried out the Zajac mine. Although the research papers were positive, they were suspended because of financial resources, as well as because of the distance of Zajac from Chadinj. In the period from 1951-1957, investigative papers are being restored. During this investigation, the appearances of copper in the diabaz, the pink zone of Međani-Pravosev and polymetallic copper, zinc and lead in the porphyrit area of Chad. Investigations were conducted by the board of directors of Prepolje. They were small in size and value. Given the means of engagement, they gave good results. By liquidating the cut in Prijela, these investigative works have been suspended. There were no investigative papers in this area in the period from 1959-1963. At the initiative of the municipality of Prepolje and with the help of the joint mines of northern Montenegro, research works on Chadinj were re-activated in 1963. At this time, the first long-term concept of investigative works is being created, with frequent interruptions caused by a lack of financial resources going on and on. From 1965 to the end of the 1980s, the Geosavod of Belgrade programmed and realised all the investigative works within the MiddlePolymlje mining area. The largest scope of research was carried out at two intervals in 1969 until 1971 and from 1975 until the end of the 1980s. At the end of 1978, a certified elaborate on mine reserves was made for part of the bed of Čadinja. The confirmed reserves were the basis for a mining study on the possibility of opening part of the bed of Čadinja. The part for which the elaborate study was done was also done in 1978. The mineral reserves, elaborate on the mineral reserves of the total reserve of all categories A, B, C1, C2 and D1, are estimated at 39.670.00 tonnes in the medium polimlj area. In the bed of Čadinja, as a whole of the mineral reserve A, B, C1, C2 categories, at 7.580.000.00 tonnes. In part of the bed of Čadinja, the Krastina and Stojadinović mine blocks have also established certified mineral reserves A, B, C1 categories of polymeric ore of copper, zinc, lead and pyrite with condition on 1 November 1987, since 3 November 1987. 087.433.00 tonnes of ore. The guys ore on the blocks within the beds are different. In Krastina block, certified ore reserves of zinc and pyrites A, B and C1 categories are 1.251,106.00 tonnes, of which 846,066.00 tonnes of ore with 6,09% zinc and 405.040,00 tonnes of ore with 1,29% zinc and 1,14% copper. In Stojadinović block, certified ore reserves of copper and pyrite A, B and C1 categories are 1,723,253,00 tonnes of which 990,708.00 tonnes of ore with 1,64% copper and 0.5 grams per tonne of gold, 733,293.00 tonnes of oxidic ore with 1,29% copper and 99,252.00 tonnes of oxidic ore with 2.22% of grams of gold per tonne of gold. The processing of these types of ore in the law of the intended scope has been decided in a satisfactory manner, in particular semi-industrial testing, the fleeting concentrations of zinc minerals and pirates from Krastina blocks. In particular, semi-industrial studies have been carried out with the fleet concentration of copper and pyrite minerals from the Stojadinovici bloc. In particular, tests have been carried out using the method of oxidising copper ore. From all types of ore, a satisfactory degree of exploitation and quality of concentrate has been obtained. The Cadinja Bed is located at a distance from Belgrade's main road – at least 500 metres away, the location of the cave is located from the Prepolje freight station on the Belgrade-Bar track, about 2 kilometers away.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55363	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55364	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will the Prosecutor's Office launch proceedings against a certain Jova Bakic, who is presented in public as a sociologist and because of calls for a revolution and threats to some long pipes. Why am I asking this? Because in the part of the public, in the part of the media controlled by Djilas, Solak and others, and for the police hearing of the concerned Bakic, who presents himself as a sociologist, has been speculating for days and is creating a hysteria about some kind of attack on this Jovo Bakic, as it is, for God's sake, oppression, as it is asphyxiation of freedom of expression, repression and other nebulosis. What exactly happened? On several occasions, Jovo Bakic, a sociologist, called for revolutions, revolutionary courts, beating political opponents, street chases and similar scenarios in Serbia, and a drop that apparently spilled a glass was a statement about long pipes, in the context of the invasion of the opposition in the RTS building. Here is what it looks like – Jovo Bakić, Vukić will be tried by a revolutionary court. This is what he said on 1 January 2019. He says - the regime is deeply criminalized at its core mafia. Their thing is whether they will be tried by independent or revolutionary courts. Their brains show they'll be tried by a revolutionary court. That's what Jovo Bakic says. Then, the same Jovo Bakic says – I would like to chase them in the streets because they deserve it. It's a revolution, but I'm afraid there's no critical mass for it. He complains that there is no critical mass, so he says: I would like to chase them in the streets, I would like it. When the leader asked if it was a revolution then, he answered - yes, I would like that. Then he says, now I quote, they had long pipes to get in, so if you go in there, what are you going to do without the long pipes? What's your goal? You go there and then your colleagues point a long tube at your head and say read the prepared text, we just took over. Otherwise, if you don't have long pipes, and you're in public service, what are you gonna do there? So these are Jove Bakic's quotes. Imagine if that opposite, this Bakic, had said all this in any other country in the world, would have been arrested immediately, would have been processed immediately. He openly calls for a revolution, to beat up political opponents, threatens to chase the streets. He's probably had it since October 5th, when the government's institutions were in the long pipes, when they burned down buildings and beat up people on the streets. And no one. The D.A.'s office is silent. The police, however, conducted a hearing, and then a media hack and a media campaign are on the move as the government abuses police, as it deals with non-sanitarys, as Vucic is a dictator, as Vucic Hitler is, etc. We're looking at it all these days on Gilas' media. I follow all the media, so sometimes I turn this N1 on, mostly because of the weather forecast, but there's a daily campaign where Bakic is now a victim of the regime. We remember that Bakic, who in time supported the unfortunate Saša Jankovic and the sad Borko Stefanovic, even wrote him a program. He lied to him for months to get out of the DS, to make some kind of move, this one was naive enough, fell for it, so he did it, then this one left him hanging. Because he cares about building in public an image of an extra-party person. He imagined he was very smart. I've declared myself an independent intellectual and thinks it's enough for him, and he can knock down and burn down buildings, and knock down the system institutions and call for a revolution. I can't help but think of the great Slobodan Jovanovic and his half-intellectual piece. I think he just had these kinds of phenomena on his mind when he wrote his work, appeared like Jova Bakic. It is obvious here that Bakic is the newest Alliance for Serbia star. So, little by little, they throw a new star into the air, remember that Shabic. Most of all, they love you so much. Experts for all and all things, independent experts, so he was Sabic, before him Sasa Jankovic, so we had this judge since almost his performance, so now we have obviously five minutes of Bakic's. It is already quite clear here that there is a broad front in which the most different factors, which have different roles, are involved. So there's some acting out as independent journalists, some pretending to be opposition leaders, some pretending to be judges, some pretending to be sociologists, but everybody's the only task, and that's the attack on Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55365	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 24. Special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at 11. I have established the following Dn e n e d d Consideration of the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2018, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds since 31 May 2019 Consideration of the work report for 2018, which was submitted by the Fiscal Council, with a proposal for the conclusion of the relevant committee. Consideration of the 2018 Work Report submitted by the Competition Protection Commission, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. 4/3 BM/LZ I would now ask the President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution to enter the O.R. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the members of the National Assembly have been invited to attend all the authorised proposings, and in this part of the session with us will be Dr Dusko Pejovic, President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution; Vice-President of the Council Dr Bojana Mitrovica, members of the Council and other associates. Here you go. You have received a report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2018, with a correction of 4 June 2019, as well as a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 31 May 2019. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2018, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 31 May 2019. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Dusko Pejovic, president of the Council of the State Auditing Institution want a word? Here you go. Then Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the board of directors, will receive the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55366	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor and pleasure for me to be here in front of a respected home to present basic information on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2018. We put together the report in time for the Rules of Procedure and delivered it in time, and in early April it is available on the site of all interested people so that they can read it. This report shall provide information on the implementation of the 2018 review programme on the opinions given, the findings identified, the effects of the audit carried out, the recommendations, the initiatives for changing the rules, the implementation of our financial plan, the work of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, as well as co-operation with international and domestic organisations. At the end of December 2017, the Council adopted the 2018 Audit Programme, which established that audits of financial reports, regularity of business and revision of the purpose of business were carried out. I can freely say that all planned activities under that programme have been carried out neatly. For 2018, we have put together 436 audit reports, i.e. audits, of which 141 financial reports and business regularity, 58 regularity reports, only two review reports and 20 reports on the veracity of the response report, i.e. the revision of the response reports. We also carried out 215 post-audit reports relating to the previous year. 209 entities are covered, although the number is much higher, since it is consolidated financial reports, so more entities are covered by consolidation than the 209 figure itself shows. We expressed our estimates for the financial reports, so that we gave an unmodified or positive assessment of 19 financial audit reports, 113 was given a score with a reserve, six were given negative assessments, and for three financial reports we abstained from giving an assessment. In the regularity of business, 17 reports were assessed positively, 116 with a reserve, seven negative and one abstentioned estimate. We carried out 20 audits of the response reports and showed that 11 of these reports were authentic and true, and nine were unworthy. What's most interesting about the data is the total set of errors and irregularities. They are shown for 2018 in the amount of 217 billion dinars. However, this issue and this amount should be explained a little more precisely because sometimes it can also create confusion. So this amount contains errors in the financial reporting and are a total of 195 billion dinars, or 90% of the total errors and irregularities made. This means that the activity in terms of recording business changes and all errors that occur in this activity, that it is less demonstrated, that more has been shown, that it is wrong on the subject, on the Internet, on the function or at the source, it is something 5/2 MZ/VK which is 90%. Ten percent are irregularities and they relate to procedures and activities in terms of salary accounting, accounting of earnings, public procurement and taking over obligations through adjunctions, payment without legal basis, without credible documentation, without competition and relevant criteria, etc. These errors were the most relevant in income and income, in expenditure and expenditure, in the balance sheet items, in determining the results of the business. As regards irregularities, the same was true of income and income, budget preparation and adoption, expenditure and expenditure, on public procurement, in particular, items in the balance sheet and commitments above the approved appropriation. As regards financial management and control in the public sector of the Republic of Serbia, we can say that there are significant problems in terms of the absence or incomplete existence of internal acts, in their non-compliance with the acts of more legal force, that the entities have failed to carry out control procedures against the documentation itself or in its creation process, that business changes have arisen without respecting the internal act in full or not providing adequate protection against unauthorized access to funds and information. I particularly stress the problem of being sufficiently internally audited. We found in the audited subjects that 71% did not establish any of the forms prescribed for the existence of an internal audit, and 6% only partially or formally did so, so 77% of the subjects did not, which is over three quarters of the total, and the other 23% did. In the preparation and decision-making of the budget there were and we identified errors where more resources were allocated, for example, from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development for the five colleges and less on the same basis for the three colleges, or that the planned revenues and receipts were not carried out in accordance with the manual or that the planning was violated by the single budgetary classification when drawing up the budget decision or that the budgeting manual did not contain all the elements prescribed in Article 40. The law on the budgetary system or that the beneficiaries of the budget have not submitted their proposals or have not sufficiently or adequately explained them. In income and income, we found that 80 billion dinars were misrepresented. This is the largest individual error in the entire established audit procedure. This refers to misclassification, according to sources, where 64 billion dinars are misclassified by sources. Therefore, revenues are shown in the total sum, but are not shown in the structure, according to the relevant sources. They are either less pronounced or misclassified, or untrustworthy accounting documentation, etc. As regards income irregularities, it amounts to 1.77 billion dinars, and it concerns that local tax administrations have not taken the appropriate measures to collect claims, on the basis of the property tax and other revenues, or that revenues are not paid through the prescribed public revenue payment account, at the expense of the implementation of the budget, or that the invoice of revenues is not made in accordance with the contract, or at the appropriate price, or have been made, or have been achieved without the right basis. The wrong statements, in expenditures and expenditures, amount to 33 and a half billion dinars and they, as well as revenues, are shown either more or less, or to another user, or to another continent, to another function, etc. As regards expenditure irregularities, they total 2,72 billion dinars and most refer to the payment or execution of 933 million dinars without legal basis, or that more for salaries and earnings was paid to 779 million dinars, or that payment was made without legal basis, and that the documentation was invalid, or the contract was concluded, or that overtime was, without meeting the conditions etc. As for public procurement, they re-emerge, as one of the recognizable problems in public sector irregularities. I can provide information that we have conducted a total examination of 25.8 billion contracts in public procurement, of which we have identified 3.14 billion irregularities or 12%. The biggest irregularities relate to the conclusion of contracts and payments without being made, at all, public procurement procedures or to public procurement, in these cases, are not planned. The following irregularities, in public procurement, are such that the competitive documentation sets out additional conditions, for participation in the procurement process, which are not logically linked to the subject of public procurement, or are damaged, or the principles of public procurement, in particular the principle of competition, public principles or the principle of efficiency or economic efficiency, or prepared or published competitive documentation, are not clearly given a description of the subject of procurement, i.e. competition documents are not specific technical characteristics of specificity, quality, quantity, description, etc. Notably, in a trend for many years, public procurement irregularities have been reduced, but this reduction has been slowed down, and a large amount of procurement remains present, and this has not been planned. The following irregularity, relating to commitments taken above the amount, approved appraisals, is a characteristic irregularity among local authorities, and we had 32 audited entities, each subject had an irregularity here, only those irregularities are not in the same amounts, they are somewhere in reduced ones, and somewhere in a lot of expressed amounts, and on this basis, when over a million dinars are committed, therefore criminal charges are written, because the Criminal Code, Article 362a. discusses the non-intentional consumption of public funds. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia, the following information that we have detailed in our report, can only be confirmed that the Public Debt Administration has properly carried out its activity and we have set certain amounts, on certain dates, by stressing that this amount of public debt participation in GDP continues to decrease, but remains above 45%, as a legal one, to say the limit. The preparatory actions to draw up consolidated financial reports show that there are irregularities in the list, that there is no plan, that the list is not comprehensive, that it does not cover all non-financial and financial assets, that it has not carried out a list of all obligations, that the reports on the list carried out do not have the required content or that no compliance with the demand and obligations with customers and suppliers or that no harmonisation has been made in terms of the signature of members and the approval of the authorised person. The balance sheet is the next item showing irregularities or misrepresentations of 83.24 billion dinars. These are the items which mainly relate to the fact that fewer or more have been shown, that certain accounts have been misclassified, that the non-compliance of the capital in the register in the accounts and the instruments in the establishment or remained incorrect statements relating to the incorrect conduct of the asset assessment, the untrusted accounting records, the incorrect accounting coverage, the wrong economic classification and so on. As regards the results of the business, we have found that the error of 783 million dinars, that this refers to the fact that the surplus is defined for example for the next year in a lower amount, or less, or more of the financial effect, i.e. the result, or that between the decision on the final account of the budget and the balance of income and expenditure, the amount of the determined result or the payment of part of the profits of the public undertaking in the budget and other irregularities related to the determination of the business result has not been established. As for the two purposes audits, the first involved anti-urban protection. We presented this report in detail to both the public and the Committee themselves, as well as all other information. We can only say that the main finding in the revision of the relevance of this topic is that in order to rely on the subsequent receipt of funds from the current budget reserve and to help units of local self-government, the RHMZ does not provide the necessary conditions in time for the optimal functioning of the city's defence system and that the existing way of procurement, distribution of anti-urban missiles and maintenance of launch stations by the RHMZ endangers its efficiency. The institution made four recommendations to RHMZ and the Ministry of Agriculture, which means eight recommendations. The second purpose was to address, i.e. the revision of the purpose of the subsidisation of units of local self-government given to public undertakings where we found that audit entities, meaning local authorities did not provide an effective grant allocation because the planning process did not fully adhere to the development priorities and guidelines, as well as local authorities or did not document the analysis of the subsidy use programme. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The institution gave three recommendations to the entities, which is 24 for eight entities, and otherwise we gave 2130 recommendations, of which 1792 refers to combined audits, 306 to regularity, and 32 to the purpose of business. We, apart from planning, conduct and report on the audit procedure, are in charge and obliged to launch an initiative to amend and supplement regulations where we determine in the review procedure that there has been or that there may be a negative impact on the impact of incompleteness or conflicting provisions of certain acts. In that sense, we emphasized what are the rules that have not been passed, which is necessary? Or, what are the provisions of regulations that can produce negative consequences? Furthermore, issues that are not regulated by existing regulations or do not comply with the rules where, in two different or mutually opposite ways, the same issue is regulated, or the non-compliance of opinions and interpretation of competent ministries with the positive laws of the Republic of Serbia. When a year, two, three are said to be - one will be done like this, and after a while it is said quite differently, or different from another organ, the discrepancies of internal acts with regulations and other questions. We have also shown information on the reports filed, both criminal and commercial, as well as the launch of a request for criminal liability. In this regard, we can say that we have filed 33 criminal charges for 2018, 262 requests for criminal liability and 18 requests for a commercial offence for 18 legal entities covering 79 individuals, responsible persons. As regards the measures taken in 2018, on the basis of the recommendations we made in 2017, we point out constantly - what are the effects and contributions of the State Auditing Institution in the process of its control action. So, here in the Report we have shown what the effects are, we can say that in our budget, in our financial plan, 695 million dinars were planned for our work, 669 million or 95% were spent, and we achieved our work together with the entities, we achieved savings due to the reduction of the expenditure itself of 433 million, the increase in the payment of claims itself and the increase of revenues by 218.5 million, 34.8 in other benefits achieved, and 486 billion are benefits and gains are mostly related to objectively showing no financial assets, financial assets and liabilities in financial reports. We showed the same indicators, only in other amounts, working in 2019 for 2018. As regards the Council of the State Auditing Institution, we held 25 sessions in 2018 as the highest body of the institution, we adopted the report on the work of the institution, the report on the list carried out, we adopted financial reports for 2017, the annual programme of our work for 2019 and 23 other decisions. We have five members of the Council, 274 are employed directly in audit operations, 31 is on audit support jobs and one is an internal auditor, a total of 311 is employed, and 431 is systemised. As far as the quality control methodology sector is concerned, we conducted six cold and 39 warm reviews. When I say "cold," that's what we're thinking this year, and we're going over our last year's reports, and when we say "hot" we think that in the process of drawing up the drafts and so on the Reports, in the process of making the report itself, we're going to do a review where the reports by nature are risky and so on. As regards co-operation with stakeholders, we have achieved it, of course, we will do everything possible to increase this co-operation, in particular to highlight co-operation with our competent Financial Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Subcommittee on the review of the State Auditing Institution's report, we have also achieved co-operation with other independent bodies and bodies. During 2018, 70 statements were published, four press conferences, we had a number of meetings at international level, which we want the institution to co-operate with all international and other top audit institutions, with the intention of raising the maximum level of its work and improving its technical and human capacities so that the effects of the DRI work are greater and that the effect of the application of the recommendation would be more beneficial for the country overall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55367	Thank you. The word is by professor Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, the budget and control of public spending. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55368	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Pejovic, with his associates, honourable MPs, today we have a DRI report for 2018. On behalf of the Proposer on the Finance Committee, we were obliged to vote on this report, that is, on the basis of the conclusion, but in the conclusion of the Committee, I think we also tried to help you as an institution, and in general, all budgetary users, to start spending public funds in accordance with the standards laid down by the World Organisation on the subject, but also in accordance with Chapter 32, this is external supervision, which is the first chapter that is open when it comes to negotiations with the EU. For the sake of the public, I have to give an introduction concerning the work of the Committee and co-operation with the DRI, because we as the Republic of Serbia have signed a memorandum of co-operation on the EU, when we are talking about economic reforms in general and on the basis of this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a programme – Public Finance Reforms from 2016 to 2020, at the end of 2015. At that time, an Action Plan for the implementation of this reform plan was developed to bring together the work of the DRI, the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Finance, which has, not only a legislative and electoral function, but also a control function when it comes to public finances. The task force has made one Action Plan, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has also adopted. According to this Action Plan, there are some 19 measures, 18th and 19th measures relating to this external monitoring of the spending of public finances, i.e. public funds, and the 19th measure refers to the co-operation of the DRI's competent financial committee to the public hearing mechanism we have had since 2016, let the public know how the finances are spent, and on the basis of the reports you're giving today, and with us going a little more, so we said – we want all the sectoral reports you're doing to hear, we want the citizens of Serbia to be informed at all times, and that means that these sessions are online, so they have a direct transmission through the Serbian Assembly portal. What is important is to say that the media participate together with the NGO and with all the interested entities who want to attend these sessions, so that we decided to start to meet the spending of public funds, especially when it comes to local self-government. Why? Because we realized that the problem with human capacities in local self-government is that in a certain way they can meet the requirements of standards that you set not only as DRI, but we ourselves as a state have set ourselves up through the Accounting and Audit Act and as such you should always have people who will implement those regulations. The Economic Reform Programme, or every six months, the Government of the Republic of Serbia unites all reports, means the report submitted by the Committee and the DRI and the Ministry of Finance in co-operation with all the relevant institutions and every six months we report as the state of the European Commission and the European Commission is working on a report on how much we have really succeeded in this area that we are making progress. I can tell you that what is important is that some work has been recognised since the last three years and the DRI and the Finance Committee because now, when the EU wanted to extend its programme over the next two years, what we have proposed as a Committee in co-operation with the DRI for that 19th measure has not met at all any correction, assessment or criticism, unlike any other institutions that have had their own criticism somewhere and wanted to show as part of which needs to be fixed and raised, as they say, when it comes to external surveillance at all. What were we doing? We went to the local self-government on the DRI proposal, which in an adequate way, responded well to the recommendations made by the state auditor, i.e. when we are now listening to the state auditor, so we say – this is not well done, not well done public procurement, this is not well done, it means that it is not well done according to the standards prescribed by the law, nor is it prescribed by the DRI, and thanks to the fact that many legislative regulations have not been changed so far. When we asked the state auditor who did not respect the recommendations, he said that we could not put all the recommendations in one place by priority, but there are always objective and subjective reasons why many budget users did not respect certain recommendations. What does that mean? This means that, according to the action plan, we have visited those local self-governments that gave their recommendations by the auditors that they should change and indeed in an adequate way, and that their reports have shown themselves in the following interaction next year as very good and done according to these standards, which means that they were done properly by functioning financial reports many savings in the budget, and that is also the essence of reporting to the DRI, because if we take in 2018 how many irregularities there really are in that amount of money, we will notice that this is three times less, four times less, and five times less compared to the previous year. Not to mention that by 2012 there were neither such reports nor were considered, nor was the Committee at all able to examine the auditors in a detailed way to certain budget users, we set this off one way that we consider to be extremely correct. So in 2017, for the first time we went to the city of Novi Sad and there we had a joint session of the DRI, the Committee, of all the interested MPs from these local self-governments and eventually had a glass of media such a session where we had this very report. Then in 2018, we had two public sessions that were held in the city of Subotica in July, and in September in the city of Leskovec, where we somehow entered this system of work, to first consider the reports of these local self-governments based on the report of the state auditor and to hear what the mayors say, how they managed to improve their public finances and how they responded adequately, first of all, professionally, and what they could say about political action, which is making different decisions in the congregations of their city municipalities. So, they needed to have enough hearing to make political decisions that would follow these financial reports. We really went to the town of Kruševac for the first time this year, and we plan to go to the town of Piroth and Zrenjanin. What we had the opportunity to hear is that, let's say, the town of Kruševac so far, thanks to the real improvement and good relations with DRI and the promotion and application of all these recommendations, freed any credits, that they had made their finances in a way that fit all standards, but it took a great deal of time, great work and, simply, political willingness to deal with certain changes that you could make in accordance with the recommendations. What has been observed now is that we have opened up for the first time now in Kruševec a debate with the DRI extremely openly, that we have really entered into details when it comes to budget users themselves and that we have seen that those irregularities that exist in those users you controlled, indeed show that many people who are at the head of these institutions are extremely irresponsible, but also that somewhere the judiciary does not support that large amount of reports and criticism based on those initiated judicial proceedings, so that somewhere in the judiciary and the prosecution are those that we have noticed are obstructing us in this work that we are doing certain supervision, that we can introduce all those who are working legally, because those people who run public enterprises, who run local self-government, who are acting in accordance with the regulations, who have accepted you as their partners in a particular business, today have no problem with the law, and all those who are not concerned with the law, and the law-reporting them. Somewhere we think that education is the first to go as a kind of program of work in general by those budget users who need to be set up somewhere in that work. After all, there is also a budget inspection that can in a certain way put them in line with its controls, and in the end we are just going with court disputes. What we had a chance to hear is that the reports you've been reviewing show that, above all, an insufficient system of control when it comes to internal audit. This means that what is a legal obligation, the budget users did not respond adequately, that only 71% of the entities did not establish an internal audit, and that means that they did not even hire a house that would work for them internal audit, since there are three ways -- or you name one man who will deal with certifications, or you give a particular firm that will do it for you or even have a service. So, the minimum of three people who are going to do this whole job. So, based on this, we see that budget users still haven't figured out what internal audit is, that it needs to help them, and not to make it work, and that's what we're going to do through this conclusion, which I'm going to finally read, as an intervention committee. With DRI, we held certain meetings where we are ready to enter, together with the Ministry of Finance, certain amendments to the law relating to the budgetary system and to the budget that would come together when we discuss the 2020 budget, which would in fact introduce certain legal changes precisely to facilitate the work of budgetary users who are used to working on an inert and not in line with the existing legal solutions. Third, that the wrong statements and certain errors that occur in the reports themselves are also part of an insufficient education how to make their reports those in charge. When we talk about public procurement, we've really regulated so much by law, and when we talk, we have a report from the Public Procurement Administration on committees and commissions on the protection of bidders in public procurement. It is incomprehensible for us as MPs that some local self-government or budget users pay without any competitions, small procurements, or large ones. So neither those relating to three offers nor those relating to public calls. It's for us, believe us, incomprehensible. It's also incomprehensible that, say, if you've written infraction reports 2,165, of which only 1,022 are condemned, the rest are out of date. It is incomprehensible for us to say from those who have written 263 criminal reports that 129 is obsolete, that only two convictions have been passed and that they remain liberating or that the deadlines have all expired. So, what I'm saying is that it's not enough to control just us as MPs, you as an institution, that it really takes a lot of other actors in society to take to do their job and go out with it with great courage to enforce the law. Nothing else. So, both courts and inspections, but if we could really help when it comes to education, and I think that somewhere in the Ministry of Finance, we'd find one of those centers that would give their educators, it would really help to keep budget users informed and get to the point where they should do their job according to new regulations. What's important to us, what you said, that all the recommendations you make, and that's one kind of criticism of the work of budget users themselves, are not all the same to rank. This means that you said that there are first, second and third priorities, let's say those actions that go have their own terms, let's say 30 to 90 days to make amends in a particular part. There are some who are correcting themselves, that a period of a year, and some who have property, that is also the most difficult problem of Serbia, a list of assets that have not been made in recent years, and that is why the Law on the Origin of Assets and Law, when we talk about state property at all, is being delayed, because budget users themselves did not simply register their property and did not register it and did not manage it in a catastroy in the appropriate manner that the law requires. Why did we postpone that law? Until we really get everything into a certain order, it's not even possible to work, but we've taken the first steps. So this kind of control that you're doing and you've made some recommendations today, when you look at percentages like this, and when you say -- the numbers, they're really shocking that budget users didn't spend on standards, but they're, like, three times smaller and four times smaller and five times smaller than they were seven and eight years ago. Not to mention that it was not discussed or said that state auditors were unable to enter these institutions when it came to making any documentation or any reports at all. Now that only after ten years of working this institution, we can say that you're really doing your job. What we have concluded at the end of this part as a promoter is that the National Assembly considers your report comprehensive and that it should really support the exercise of the constitutional and legal powers that you have in the review of public funds, but we have said both under point 2 and paragraph 3 that, starting with the recommendations of the DRI, which refer to the report for 2018, the National Assembly recommends to the Government to take measures from its authority to ensure that the recommendations of the DRI are implemented, in particular because it will propose to the National Assembly the adoption of the relevant laws, as an amendment to the sublegal rules adopted by the Government from the Authority of the Ministry, which is specifically indicated in the report. Point 3. Starting from the DRI findings, most audited users of public funds did not establish an internal control system in such a way as to provide operations in accordance with regulations, internal acts and contracts, as well as to achieve other objectives in accordance with the rules. The Committee notes that it is necessary for the Government, in accordance with its responsibility for law enforcement, to ensure the consistent implementation of the Budgetary System Act in the work relating to the obligations of the establishment of an adequate financial management and control system and the introduction of an internal audit with the beneficiaries of public funds. Accordingly, two weeks ago, we held a joint meeting of the DRI, representatives of the Committee and the Ministry of Finance and concluded that some amendments and additions of these laws were needed. We have commended the DRI's real efforts to establish a unique information system, but also what we have received as the latest information from the Ministry of Finance, that they have created a task force for lawmaking, amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act that we will have and that we simply have support as regards the Executive Authority of the Ministry itself to really change the laws, we coordinate, in order to help budget users to have less and less problems, that is, to make less and less problems when it comes to launching any proceedings against functionholders. You know what? We take both objective and subjective circumstances when the holders are functions, when you have the presidents of municipalities which, for example, are not economists but are, for example, lawyers or doctors or even we have agroenginers and have, for example, for co-workers of their own who are actually budget holders when it comes to chiefs who are used to working by inert in a completely different way which is simply not in line with certain new standards when it comes to accounting and accounting. Then he, as the first at the head of the institution, must endure all pressures and all conconsequences for inadequate reporting. What are they? Financial reports, business reports, whether it's a matter of purpose. So, then you come into a situation that accounts for what one of the experts in the local self-government itself actually puts the biggest pressure on the one who's the first, who's actually a political person and who may not have that much knowledge when it comes to finance itself. It means that your auditors should actually be there associates, partners on the same task, and that's what you and your associates are expected to do in the future, so that these results that you are now showing, where certain mistakes have been made through your recommendations are getting smaller and smaller and simply getting rid of any pressure to launch any proceedings against the bearer of such functions. That's the goal. Our goal here as an MP is to talk about it, talk about it, point to problems that arise. We today, for example, have information that certain local self-governments in the city of Belgrade, such as the Old Town, have made the costs involved, and has not charged, on a business space worth 580 million dinars so far. Who's covering it, actually? These are the unpaid costs for using the municipality's business space, which is the richest since it is located in downtown Belgrade. That's, we're talking about the Old Town and we're talking about all the other local self-governments that have a business space that haven't adequately charged the costs and fees for the business space, and they won't even charge it because they're getting old. That's what it shows, in fact, how it relates to what the president is referring to public finances. It is up to you to help in a certain way, indeed, to all the officials, if they want to, to tell them how they should function, and therefore, if you tell them that they need an internal audit to exist and help them in that, I will tell you that in practice we know that it is not, because they see internal audit as one kind of control and simply do not want it. Now, the smarter ones, who have good finances, they keep internal auditors really doing their job and then when you come to these or local self-governments or those budget users, they have no problem. So the essence of your work at all is that we have as little public spending as possible in an inadequate way. That's what you need as an institution, really, to do, and that's one kind of education, when you see that there's simply no education, there's no conversation, and there's no talking about the law itself, then you're doing it, after all, you're in a situation where you have to start judicial proceedings when there's no desire, simply, to change, or to fix anything from those reports, then you're in a position to face what you're doing before a court of limitations. There are models in the world that show that co-operation between state institutions and when it comes to education itself is permanent. I really expect the Ministry of Finance to launch this initiative, because they also said there is this Harmonization Centre that simply does that education when it comes to auditors. That education takes, say, a week by the finance ministry, but obviously that's not enough. It is obvious that all actors in this process have to participate and help and light up, ultimately, in public this topic, that this topic is spoken of in a completely different way, not only in a way now we are going to carry out some penalties, because we see that courts, simply, are not sufficiently educated what to do on this matter and then it is best that they do not. That's not an excuse, of course, and that's why we want to talk about it here in public. Judges may view this as a kind of attack on an independent branch, as they call themselves, the judiciary, that we don't even have the right to talk about it never to do their job, but we want in a really constructive way to contribute that those who want to participate in the process of spending public funds in a legal, good way, that they really do it in co-operation and with your institution, and those who really don't want to and will not and show that they don't want to respect institutions and laws, then they have to answer for it. To answer, we need court rulings for that. That's why we have to say it out loud here. Thank you, first of all, as an institution that you started really in a quality way this whole topic. I think that many budget users have realized that working with you really helps them work in an adequate way and that their heads don't hurt, as they say, especially the directors of public enterprises, who have introduced an internal audit and are really holding on to it, because it helps them to function in a certain way. You know what, the law on the election of directors, we put that only those who have positive financial effects can be directors. So they figured out the message that you gave when you were coming, but somewhere else, and the most local self-government, because there are 180 community presidents, it's the hardest thing for them, because when we talk about human capacities, which we really need to be educated in this way, they're not always able to hire and have. That's why we think that since there's the biggest problem, we've located it, they need the greatest help. So, I think that together and with the Ministry of Finance, we should also go to support them, in terms of professional support and education of these people, to really help them do their job right. We thank you for your cooperation, and we hope to further improve our co-operation, not just because of the memos, but because of the next report when it comes back we cut this number in half when we talk about irregularities and we really show progress when it comes to public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55369	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. Does the committee's rapporteur want the word, or Dr. Aleksandra Tomic again? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the sent groups, want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55370	You paint for nothing, Mr. Pejovic. You heard earlier, no one's guilty, all the excuses for what you've been doing, filed in the report, those in power obviously don't accept, but fine. The Serbian Radical Party, our parliamentary group, for three and a half years now, has been calling for three and a half years, insisting that the National Assembly start to act, or the assembly majority start to act on democratic principles, respect for parliamentary democracy, to discuss individually in the National Assembly on agenda points at plenary sessions, without those pointless mergers of 40, 50, 70 points within one item of the agenda. So we tried every time and through parliamentary issues and through debate, principle debate, discussion in particular, we tried to draw attention to the congregation's majority that I don't care, I can, I can't, I can't, it's not democratic. Then what happened? Then came a European Commission report, Sam Fabrizio, lectured the MPs here at the National Assembly, and then held a national convention on the EU, which, as far as we are concerned, was a national disgrace, because it was really terrible for the president of the state and other state officials to justify themselves before members, as it is called, the Natasa Kandic humanitarian fund, in front of those who organised "Mirdita" in Belgrade, in front of Sonja Licht, etc. Then he listens to the congregation’s majority, and now we finally do as God commands, which is good. But I just had to say this, first of all, for the sake of the public, that the public knows that citizens who choose MPs know that the SRS has been insisting on it since the beginning of this call. It is certainly a surprise that this report and these reports, at this session three, are likely to be three more on the next, which they have found on the agenda of the National Assembly at all. I guess this is the first time. You've reached the board and there's still no discussion about this. It's a good thing we're discussing this today, as well, I repeat, by introducing the Assembly into some normal streams. We will see how long the assembly majority will have patience for a democratic approach to the work of parliament. It's really surprising, my colleague just said, well, they figured it out, decided it's good for the public to get to know these reports. So, where have you been all these years? Well, when will you realize that it would be good for the public to hear that MPs are discussing the final budget? I assume, Mr. Pejovic, that you noticed that since 2000, the National Assembly has not discussed the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So they can say whatever they want -- surplus, deficit, inflation, deflation, they can say whatever they want because no one in the National Assembly has discussed the final bill. Your report has been carefully looked at and what you've drawn attention to through this report of yours suggests, in fact, the disastrous work of certain state authorities, local self-government, courts. Says a colleague as they call themselves. They are not called, but they are an independent, independent branch as a branch of the judiciary. But, well, not everyone has to know everything. It's also amazing that we just heard that some president of the municipality might not be an economist, he doesn't know about finance, so what the poor one is going to do must be wrong, so he doesn't know what public procurement is. The president of the municipality isn't the only man who works there. I guess they've got a job in the municipalities. I guess they've got a finance service. I guess they've got a job that monitors public procurement. So, the fact that some president of the municipality, I don't know, by the profession of the waiter, the driver, the baker, the pharmacist, it doesn't matter, he's a political function, he's chosen by the party who is the authority in that municipality and let them have him, but that's no excuse for the mistakes in the work that were found in this report. What we would like to ask you, Mr. Pejovic, is mostly what we had written in your report, you told us about it, but I think there are some questions left to answer. We're interested in what you, as a state auditor, your colleagues, the entire institution, think about how independent you really are. In what way? Is it good, and in your report we saw, let's say, that your financial plan is approved by the Ministry of Finance, how will you control that ministry? We've seen in your report that you have no business space and that's why you can't hire as many people as the Assembly Committee has allowed you to do on your systematization. That's also the problem. What do you think should be done? We'll tell you what we think. We think that the only one you communicate with in the country is the National Assembly, the Assembly Committee, the National Assembly, and who you communicate with in terms of solving your problems. You wrote here that you have overall proposed 34 amendments to acts of law or sublaw, mostly by law, because you have seen in the course of the audit that there are problems in application, not in application, but in the form of certain regulations. The government has only changed 11 of these acts so far. You suggested amending the law, and the government reached a conclusion, a regulation, some sublegal act. So, mostly they didn't change the laws. We just heard from a colleague that they're preparing changes to the Budget System Act, but what's going to happen, we'll see. Twenty-three acts have been proposed for a change, which have not been found on the agenda. We suggest you, address the SRS parliamentary group, write us what your objections are, which are regulations, and we will initiate amendments to the regulations here to make your institution do its job even better. Otherwise, our view is that DRI is a unit of so-called. independent institutions that really need to exist in the system. All the others are going to come to me, party-set people, party tasks are being carried out, etc. This is our attitude from the beginning. When Mr. Sretenovic was in your position, we had excellent cooperation with him, and in the sense that the man was in the mood to talk, to accept suggestions on boards, etc. For now, that's the experience with you. So we invite you to... It is perfectly legitimate, we are the largest opposition parliamentary group in the National Assembly, and it is perfectly legitimate that you, if the government will not obey you and propose a law, should address the MPs. We are also interested in your position on the relationship between the executive and you, not you personally, Mr. Pejovic, but the audit institution. Do they really see you as an out-of-the-way, independent organ? We've heard here for years that this government has done a miracle by passing the Public Procurement Act, so no more theft, so it's all clean as a whistle, and your report says it's serious without public procurement. We want to know what the consequences are. What about that president of the municipality you wrote your remarks to, gave the recommendation, he disobeyed? Did he miss the hair on his head? It's not. We are looking here to find a modus together, to find a solution that if someone says, they find that the Public Procurement Act was not respected in that and that municipality, and that's why so much damage has been suffered, so much and so much unintendedly spent, let's see how to solve it. You've been delivering us a bunch of material here, controlling this community, that community, these public enterprises, those public enterprises, we've been leafing, we've been watching, and there's been objections, somewhere less, somewhere more. There are also some remarks that I can accept, as my colleague said, where there is more ignorance, where it is obvious that it is a mistake, not some intentional failure, etc., but there have been serious mistakes and serious objections and no one at all. Do you know what else is very worrying? That you file more than 2,000 criminal charges and that more than 1,000 are out of date. That's really amazing. I could understand that you've filed 2,300, as many as there have been, criminal charges, that a court case has been conducted and that the criminal court has established in the course of proceedings that you were wrong, that you're rejected, whatever. That would be perfectly normal, completely systematic and systematic to me, but to get so many of your applications out of date, that's a serious problem. Please, and I suggest you ask the courts for a precise list of cases that have become obsolete and that you get to know the National Assembly about it, so that we can talk from this place to these judges, because what we've heard here is really inadmissible. Furthermore, when I asked about the Ministry of Finance's relationship with you, we think it gives a certain dose of addiction, and you must be absolutely independent. I repeat, the National Assembly is the only authority that can address you in this way and praise you, criticise you, make remarks and make suggestions, etc. Just the National Assembly, the Assembly Committee, of course, as part of the National Assembly. How can employee auditors be treated as civil servants? Are you a state body in that sense? You're not. Your officers are auditors of this, that degree, as you do within your service, your institutions share, but certainly it can't be according to the Civil Service Act. So the state does not allow you to be independent, to be that organ that it is, as defined by the Constitution and the law. Let me see what else I've got. Now let's go through this report a little bit. There's a lot of data here, you've mentioned it yourself. In this first part of the resume you accurately wrote that you performed 436 audit products, errors and irregularities, 270 billion dinars are errors and irregularities. That's also something to talk about. We've got here, I don't know if I'm gonna make it through it, found that more money has been paid for it than planned. Now the question is, when did you say it, did someone return that money they got? That's a question or you've been working again for nothing. I guess I'll meet it here on my notes, and I'll tell you exactly that. You talked about the participation of the general government and GDP debt and you said - on 31 December 2017 this debt is 62.5% according to data on the GDP of the Republic Statistics Institute. It's above the level of 45% of GDP determined by the Budgetary System Act, and it's good for this public to hear, too, that we're not just listening, I don't know, how many millions, billions, stuck so much, and then, of course, that number doesn't know it's happening again. This says something else. The transfer of funds from the current budget reserve between the executive and judicial authorities amounting to 322.5m dinars, as established by the Law on the Final Account of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, was allowed. We can trust you, we can't believe it, because we haven't seen the final bill. That's one of the basic problems. Here's what I see - more paid wages, earnings in value, amounting to 348.49 million dinars in five audit entities. So this is serious money and it really needs to be known and what the subjects are and whether those who got that money are obviously unearthed, whether that money was returned. I guess that was it. And that's a question for you, when you say that, you've realized this, can you order who you can order to demand that those illegally paid funds be returned and what if they don't come back? Somehow, when we read all of this, we get the impression that you're doing this job, that you're getting paid, that you're getting funds from the budget, and the effect is just what's written on paper here. We want your effect to be tangible in life, that what you realize is really applied and that someone should feel at least a little uncomfortable, not to say, fear when an auditor announces that he will come into the audit, in control. You know, as much as the law is respected, that it really works in accordance with the law, there's a gap again, and imagine those who don't care about the law, which says it's not the president of the municipality, it doesn't know the finances, so then it doesn't have to apply the Public Procurement Act. Save it, God. What we generally have as an objection, concerns both you and this is, above all, a relationship towards, and the attitude of the SRS, the way of Serbia towards the EU. We are absolutely against Serbia going to the EU, because EU countries in the United States are kidnapping us, and we do not want and will not and cannot allow it. We're having a little bit of this cooperation. This isn't interstate co-operation, it's some of their organizations there, so you're with them, etc. We think that you are smart people, that otherwise in Serbia people are smart, educated, except for those who buy diplomas, it can't be seen here, and there's no need - for the experience of developed countries to, but this kind of co-operation, especially we don't like working with embassies, because you said here that you work with the embassies of Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Slovenia, the Russian Federation, the United States, Israel, Germany to establish and expand bilateral co-operation. Of course, one part of these countries are well-intentioned, first of all, the Russian Federation versus Serbia, and working with the U.K. government and the United States, with that Scott who is daily on social networks and in public the worst things about Serbia, who shows our students a map without KIM, don't do that. It will convince you that KIM is not an integral part of Serbia. So you're working with Serbian friends because you're an institution that works in Serbia's interest. For whoever obeys the law, whoever obeys the regulations and whoever acts according to what you have ordered or if he has sinned, then correct after what you have ordered him, he certainly loves his country, for he who steals in public procurement does not love his country and can do anything with it, anyone can recruit it. Whoever splits money for profit to someone who hasn't earned it doesn't like their country. You know, patriotism is shown in different ways. I'm finishing my colleague Vlado Marinkovic. So, as far as the SRS is concerned, this report of yours is correct. We think the DRI is the only one of those so-called. the independent institutions that should exist, which should continue to work, but we think that the government, both the judicial authority and the executive, are holding you in some way in your hands, because they don't allow you to completely, let me say, stand alone, disintegrate you, and that what you order someone to be the law, that someone has to respect, that they can't say – they're the auditors, I don't care, now I'm going to call the judge. It happens, especially, in the field. You're doing it on the inside, but we know exactly what's going on and what's happening to you in every county where you've been auditing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55371	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, I assume, right on the line, would you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55372	I thank the chairman. Just to make some sense of things. I didn't even say that the presidents of the municipalities shouldn't respect the law because they don't know the finances, but I said that they suffer the most because they don't know the finance because they have to suffer the consequences of non-compliance with the law, and that their chiefs and the heads of finance can give them the wrong advice, so they will pay before the law through these certain criminal charges or criminal charges. That's what I said. As far as the courts are concerned, I suppose we can say that the court does not execute, does not do its job when only two 263 convictions can be brought. He's independent. That's right. We can't influence their decisions, but we can tell the numbers in public. We can say that last year there were 263 criminal charges, only two convictions. The rest are all outdated, two liberating. It's statistics. Third thing. When we talk about the adoption of a new law and that the state does not allow them to be independent, we have really launched an initiative, we are talking about going to some changes in the future and supplementing the work of the DRI and that it is really not a problem and that in the future we really need to talk about it. And it would be very appropriate for us to really come to the Finance Committee with their financial plans to consider. So I'm sure we can agree on that as MPs. Finally, when you talk about the opposition being the proponent of certain laws, changes and complementarity regarding finance, I think the procedure is the following – that on the basis of its recommendations they should first address those who are indeed proposing the Law on the Budget of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Finance and this order should be respected. As far as addressing the opposition is concerned, that's no problem. Let's first look at comprehensive proposals when it comes to the Budget Law. Yet there is the ministry and the government as promoters. And finally, all MPs here can react through amendments. I think it's fair to say what the procedure is and what the laws are and that we respect it. As far as the opposition is concerned, it's never a problem for them to suggest something. We had here in parliament twice that the proposings of certain legislative proposals were representatives of the opposition, but we think that when it comes to the laws and recommendations of the DRI where the highest respect of that institution goes through the respect of the government and the competent ministries to amend these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55373	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55374	First, in this report of the State Auditor, 23 draft laws did not come to the agenda, their proposals to change, 11 of their proposals were changed through the conclusions, etc. It's not all about the budget, and there's no one in there who can't suggest. Every MP, has the right, writes in this concise Rules of Procedure, whatever it is, but it allows us to propose law, amendments, additions, new law, whatever. As far as the president of the municipalities is concerned, this explanation has made me quite confused, because I think, Mrs. Tomic, that you know this, not the way you said it, but in the right way, it's amazing to me that it isn't. You say - suffers the consequences of the president of the municipality who doesn't know the best of finance. The president of the municipality, by law, knows that he's a direct authorising officer for budget implementation. If he is unable to do so, if he is unable to gather the team, if he has no knowledge, experience, skills, etc., then nicely, our people say – kiss and leave. Why he accepts that he's doing something like that, and as much as he's financially ignorant, he can read that his budget is one million and he can't spend one million and two dinars. I guess he knows so much, and that's what they do. Even if the auditors arrived at every municipality and place, we'd be shocked what they'd find, as we've seen in all those papers that we've received during this previous period. So, don't defend indefensible. We understand, you defend your policy, your presidents of the municipalities, but it's not your policy to explain that the president of the municipality because he doesn't know the finance has the right to spend his budget on how he thinks, not to apply the Public Procurement Act, etc. That's not good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55375	The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55376	I thank the chairman. We're not defending our municipalities, we're just, we're talking about your municipalities, you're in Old Town. Mr. Bastac has created a problem and a lack of 580 million dinars for business space in your municipality. As far as our municipalities are concerned, as you say, everyone answers to the law for what he did or did not do. When it comes to the Law on Audit and Accounting, we have examples in certain local self-governments, don't talk about human capacities, about the possibilities that they really do this job right. When it comes to finance, we have agro-engineers for community presidents, we have doctors who really listen to their associates, who have been there for many years, head of directors, heads of finance, who are misrepresenting, and we come to a situation where the report we get, financially, is misrepresented. He does not know as a doctor or as an agro-engineer, as it should be registered, for this is the chiefs of directors and chiefs of finance in a particular municipality. And you know it, Mrs. Radeta, for sure. So that's what I'm talking about. Yes, that president of the municipality, because it's wrongly registered, certain financial reports are in violation. And, that's it, he's going to suffer conjectures that he doesn't know, doesn't know how to tell the chief that something didn't work out. She can do it for several reasons, out of ignorance, or because she is in office from the previous regime, so she wants the president to do it by presenting or politically wanting to manipulate certain presidents. So there's a lot of, how can I say, things you should look at when it comes to general financial management, especially when it comes to a political figure that needs to be run by some local self-government. There are a lot of dangers and challenges that lie behind the presidents of the municipalities, but he is guilty, however you turn, if the State Auditor finds that he has not spent public finances in accordance with the law. He'll put up with it, he'll carry the consequences. Whether he's a member of the SNS, and whether we can or can't protect him, we can't protect anyone who broke the law, but we have to act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55377	Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55378	You're co-worker Tomic's best example. You're a machine engineer who, meanwhile, won a master's degree in economics at the University of Alpha. So it's not a problem if someone wants to do something. Secondly, I would ask you to tell us only one municipality in Serbia where the management chief of the previous government was detained. No, there isn't, and you know it well that there isn't, that your chiefs are management, which we don't have a problem with because we're not hypocrites. We say - whoever holds power has to hold both the levers of power and we think that the chief of management should be from that party that holds power, but don't pretend. Be honest. You say it's happening because the president doesn't know, so it's wrongly booked. I never once mentioned the wrong booking, I even told Mr. Pejovic that I suppose they also distinguish whether someone made a mistake, something that could easily be corrected. I was talking about avoiding the Public Procurement Act. It's a crime, it's corruption. That's what I was talking about. Two more things, you say our community is Old Town. We're a coalition partner in Old Town. Now I don't know just how you got out that Old Town as a municipality didn't charge for some business space when the business premises charge the city of Belgrade, but that's not what matters to me. We are Mrs. Tomic in the Požega municipality coalition. All your arrested radicals in the coalition, no one's head hair is missing, all honest and honest doing their job. Why should we now give up the coalitions in Pozega because you had thieves there, thieves went to jail, some new people came and we function normally. So don't do that stuff to us. You know, we understand what political speeches are, but somehow it seems to me that here we should still talk about these concrete things and about what all these people who have dedicated to us today are here and what time they want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55379	The word is Dusko Pejovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55380	Thank you, Chairman. After this address in front of the SRS, I have a need to answer a number of questions, so I don't know if I've written everything right, but I'm going to try to answer at least well for what I wrote. The first question is how independent we really are, if I wrote it right. I can tell you right now that first of all, I've been in this business a long time. Secondly, there's absolutely no independence anywhere, and neither in these examples nor in these jobs, but surely relative independence is from my angle, answering this question at a very high level, but it doesn't mean that it can still be better. In what sense do I want to say that? You've stated that the Ministry gives us approval on the financial plan, just a little correction, on the staff plan. So it gives consent to the personnel plan. In fact, let's say that independence is seen in an organisational, functional and financial sense, but also in a phenomenon. In organisational terms, our institution has certainly achieved, I say, an appropriate high degree of independence because in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article. In 92 and 96, it mentions or lists as the highest control body which independently and in particular, etc., conducts a control of the spending of public funds. As for this part that the Ministry of Finance gives us consent to the personnel plan, that's true and it can disrupt a certain degree of independence. We brought it up on our Finance Committee, that it is not good, if it is necessary to give consent, let it be done by the Assembly Committee responsible for our overall work. Furthermore, as for space, space of the institution, and the institution not only has its headquarters in Belgrade, but it also has its own organisational units in Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, I can say that the issue of space has not been adequately resolved to the end. When I say this, only in Novi Sad is it done, and in Belgrade we now have two locations where the advice and following the authorities in the work of the audit service sits in one building in Makenzijevo and in the second building in Bulevaro all the state auditors and auditors who carry out the audit process, which directly negatively affects the functioning and management, i.e. the handling of the audit procedures. The issue of resolving business space is under way, both for Belgrade and Nis. I hope that, with the procedures and arrangements that are under way and the promises that we have from the Prime Minister, we will adequately resolve the issue of business space so that everyone in Belgrade can be in one location and perform a full function. What you were saying about changing the regulations that we've initiated, that we've initiated 34, that it's adopted 11, just to point out that this information is cumulative. So for many years, this has been collected, and that means that so far we have 23 acts that have been initiated and we have really good co-operation with the Assembly Committee. Just to point out that this council meeting a year ago, at the end of April we were elected here in parliament and during this time of joint action we have achieved a series of activities and I am almost convinced that we will also achieve a significant increase in the analysis of these acts. Next, you spoke of the relationship of the executive authority to the institution. I can't say that there's a negative relationship between the executive, I can just say that we've been admitted everywhere, we've got a request for audits everywhere, we've got documents delivered everywhere, we've got answers to questions asked, etc. So, on that point, we have no objections. What we could say is to implement recommendations. Here are you chairmans of the Committee of Recommendations, I would just like to point out that the work of the auditor does not end with the giving or handing over of the final audit report. In fact, we can say that it is just becoming post-revison activity after the final report has been delivered, because the report obliges the audit entity to remove the irregularities and irregularities detected within the given time limit. We have a particular problem here, which is not stated in the law, which is the deadline for execution. It has been said that from 30 to 90 days is the deadline for implementing the recommendations given. However, we know from practice that it is impossible that all recommendations are not equally implemented, are not enforceable. Therefore, some can be implemented, executed in a very short period of time, and some recommendations require more time. For example, when we give or when we classify or classify recommendations according to priorities, we also take good care of it because we put ourselves in the role of the subject to do so, is it possible for him to do so within 90 days. We therefore set these recommendations according to the priority, not according to the priority of meaning, but to the priority of the deadline of execution. Other types of recommendations relating to the final account, the establishment of a business result, to a set of compiling reports of consolidateds, cannot be implemented without waiting for the next year when the deadlines for those recommendations are to be implemented. That's where you need to give that second priority of a year. And the third priority is for example. an initiative to amend laws or initiatives on the identification, recording, or assessment and recording of assets. It takes years, because it depends not only on the subject but also on other state authorities. So, I note that our law is not regulated, no deadline has been passed. In some other countries, it's three, four years, and I think in some of the following changes, etc. The law, we should include this question. As for profits or wages, depending on which subject it is, they really come up as one of the key problems. So, wages or earnings, public procurement, these are problems to a greater or smaller extent, but in most of the entities when we perform the audit. We've audited all the local authorities, somewhere once, somewhere and twice, and about three times. We will, according to the new way of planning next year's revision programme, have a priority where there's a bigger budget, there's a greater risk of irregularity, which means 75% of budget implementation, whether the local or state should be covered by the revision programme, which means that these biggest public funds users will have more frequent audits. Secondly, we've split the audits so we don't do combined financial and regularity at the same time, because that's how we waste time, after six, seven months, we stay with the users. We've separated what we're doing separately. So we do financial work separately, regularity separately, and purpose separately. The quality of this decision is seen in the fact that audits of financial reports come before the local Assembly, they come before the supervisory boards, they come where they need to come and the deadline, because the opinion of the external auditor is an integral part of the final account, and so far it has not been part of the final account. Now it will be and now it has all the conditions to be. As for the regularity of business, we're not and we're not going to look at complete regularity from now on, then completeness and we're wasting our time. We'll look at the most risky areas. The very fact that of the 32 local authorities, 30 had pay irregularities and 32 in commitment. Making an appraisal says there's a problem, that we're a good risk appraisal, but those amounts aren't always the same, they're not always huge. We have units of local authorities where these amounts are really reduced and reduced to a rather low level, but there are still irregularities. Indeed, in that sense, we act preventively to make corrections in the revision process, if not in the process, then in the first priority of up to 90 days passed under the law. The question was whether or not we're giving a return order. We're not authorized to do that. We don't have the authority to do that. The State Audit Authority is not an inspection. The inspections have the right to issue a warrant. We just evaluate it, evaluate it and determine what kind of irregularity it is, which is its nature, which is the size, if the irregularity is measurable, and enter it into our reports. Each individual report has that information, and today we only provide information relating to the collection. Public debt. We correctly presented the data that we found at the Public Debt Administration, only a little bit of a time gap between current data and data relating to a year or two ago, because public debt is a variable category, how to change from the amount of public debt, and from GDP, and from a number of other circumstances. So we always say on what day, on which date is the amount of public debt and we always find that it's falling, but it's still above 45%. As far as the effects are concerned, in terms of what the effects of our work are, if irregularities continue to be repeated, that's where we come in. It has already been noted that we have filed 2,165 misdemeanor reports so far, that 1,222 are condemning, that somewhere near 900 is in progress, that 159 suspensions of proceedings, 73 have been given notices, 18 are liberating. These are the data relating to criminal charges. These data are absolutely correct, because we're a party to a misdemeanour. Not only do we know how much we have written the application, but we are also taking part in the procedure, we have the right to express and object, etc. As far as criminal charges are concerned, there's the biggest problem. We have 263 criminal charges so far written, most of it refers to the taking of commitments above the approved apropriation of over a million dinars, which is punishable by the Criminal Code as a non-intentional spending of public funds. Of these 263 reports, 33 were rejected, 48 was rejected on the principle of opportunity, two were rejected due to death, two were convicted, two were liberating, 47 were reported in labor, and 129 were obsolete. Now I can't speak with 100 percent accuracy for all these numbers except that 263 wrote. Because in criminal charges, we determine the basis of suspicion, and whether the suspicion is established, it will be a further state body, which is the prosecution, to confirm or reject and we are no longer party to the process, the prosecution takes over that role and we are not getting any regular notices, but on our request, from time to time, we get these notices, 129 reports that they're obsolete we're basically absolute obsolescence. So, in 2018, December 31st, minus four years of absolute obsolescence, all applications written from the beginning of work until December 31st, 2014 are obsolete. According to us, in time, and if they really are, that information can only be given by judicial authorities. So in that sense, because we don't have the right to get feedback. Furthermore, let me just say that this is about co-operation with international authorities, organizations, top audit institutions, we can't be alone. We act as a professional, professional organisation, highest control, together with other top audit institutions in Europe in the world. We're a member of six of these working groups. These working groups apply to public procurement, to ethics, to local government, to environmental protection, to IT and to natural and natural disadvantages. So it's an exchange of experiences, it's very important to improve your own work. For example, each supreme audit institution has an obligation to carry out a college review within at least five years, that means the question of who audits the auditor. That's exactly the answer. The college review is carried out by other top audit institutions or international organisations specialising in this regard. None of the local authorities, none of the professional or any of the authorities can do that. In that sense, we have formed a training team to carry out our own self-control work, and now we are in the course of a college review for the first time in 12 years of work, although it was time to prepare for the third time, we are really getting ready for a college review from which we will learn and conclude that we want to improve our own work. We've given a lot to determine, to convince the quality. We've given a lot of control of quality, because it's a project that's very important that the products that we make and create are really convincing, so they're really based on evidence, on all the elements that matter, and not on estimates and assumptions. All of what we've written, in each individual report, we have evidence for each claim, and this is just a sublimation or a sum of some total relationship. I agree with the fact that the irregularity in the sum is smaller. Last year we had 743 billion dinars shown as irregularities, with the amount being included in the list, and without the census being 228, now it's 217, so it's constantly falling. The second thing we've found, what's causing it, what makes you wrong and irregular. We have found that 90% make mistakes in recording, showing and disclosure of financial reports. On this point, the Committee Chairman presented on behalf of the Committee of this item, which concerns increased training, the certification of those persons responsible for drawing up financial reports. I can tell you quite frankly that yet another of the very important problems of accounting applications, which are irregular, unquality, wrong and harmful. Here are some descriptions of what it looks like especially in local authorities. For example, some, but in a good part of a larger number of local authorities, accounting software allows for changing and deleting orders even though the business year is closed, although financial reports are made up. So the next year, two or three come back and fix it, that means all the financial reports that were created on the basis of that application fall into the water. Or, accounting software allows all users with administrative rights to perform all possible actions in the program. That means all employees in the sector, in that department, can enter the programme, so it is unprotected. As the property is protected, so is the program, because it is also in a different form and the data are completely insecure. So we recommended – either buy one program for all local authorities or prescribe mandatory parts of each existing programme or some third form, just so it doesn't. As long as it's not going to be like this, or it's going to be very hard to get a positive score at the local level because there's not enough training and there's wrong apps. We recently gave a positive assessment of the province's financial reporting which is indeed, you can also see from that report that this was fully established, etc. One of the following problems, I will try to cut short, I apologize, or the main cause of all the problems in the financial reporting is that there is no proper internal control system, which means there is no internal, internal, nor external, nor state that can correct bad governance, it must be felt from the top. The change must also be felt by public and management responsibilities. This must indeed happen in the public sector in order to be a serious, financial sector and to be more orderly. Just as we have presented this on the Committee, we shall establish an internal audit in the prescribed form. In one of the three prescribed forms, either have their own service or an individual auditor or have an agreement with someone who will perform for several entities, or have at the level of local authorities, and apply to all direct or indirect users. No minimum conditions are prescribed that must be met by persons keeping books. So when we talk about who's running the business books and putting together financial reports, we can automatically tell whoever they want, because there are no conditions. These conditions should be prescribed as soon as possible, education introduced, certificates introduced, and then we will really have a greater degree of seriousness in this relationship. It is important to note, for example, that the Law on Public Enterprises stipulates that public undertakings must have audited by an authorised auditor, and we are not called authorised, but whether public auditors or authorised state auditors. So we don't fit into these authorized auditors, so the question is how we're incorrectly listed in the regulation. The particular problem is that the Accounting Act is not prescribed a deadline for drawing up financial reports in public enterprises, nor is the deadline prescribed for the adoption of the financial report, but is only prescribed for the delivery of the report to the APR, which is 30 June. So we've only been able to do our own audit since July 1st, so we've been doing that procedure in terms of the plans and the proposal, and so on. So, there's a lot of room and repair obligations I think we've noticed, this is 90% irregularity. Now what I've shown is 90%, and when the management responsibility increases, the 10% in terms of wages, purchases, obligations and so on will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55381	Thank you. Right on the replica of my colleague, Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55382	Uh, I wish I had half the time the auditor got. So we understood clearly that all the objections that we have made and the questions that we have asked are actually what you accept and it is clear to you that our desire and intention is to strengthen your institution's role, because if you don't have enough strength, when I say strength, I mean regulations that what we've come to terms with together, then it's no good job. So, what does it have to do? You say recommendations, determine priorities, and so on, from your assessment, and all that's fine, but the question is, do you get information from those entities where they audit everything? So, yes, you said you'd do it in 90 days, because it's some optimal deadline, but it's our question – do they inform you that we took it, we did it in 90 days, we didn't do it anymore. That's the relationship you have to establish, or all the subjects have to have that relationship with you. Irregularity in wages, and you say you're not an inspection you can't pay back. We understand that, but that's where we want the instrument or you to order an inspection that has to act on it, or that you directly order the audit entity. It's of course a matter of changing regulations, but I'm just saying what should be done to make your role really what it's meant to be. Next, unintended use of funds, here in all your reports is not a good generality. As big a deal as it is, but you know the unintentional use of funds, and then the billions, it can be serious abuse, corruption, and it can be something, you know, here's some example right now, I don't know in some village, there's a school renovation planned in one of the municipalities. Meanwhile, away from any family with 10 children burning down their houses, everything has no municipalities, they want to help, and then they will purposely spend that money from the school to build this house, until they get the money to renovate that school. And then he's not the same, not the same infractions, not the public, and so on. That structure would be good if we had the public. Of course, this business space thing, you really have to solve it because it's inadmissible, let's say that you're also using part of the People's Bank space, and then of course you can't write in your report that non-intentional spending is when Jorgenka gets the leg heaters.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55383	The word is Dusko Pejovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55384	Thank you. Maybe just a little more detail to explain the recommendations I made. So, when we make a recommendation, we don't give it if the revision process detects an irregularity, it's recorded in the report itself. If this irregularity has not been corrected, then we are making a recommendation and waiting for a response report that we will receive up to 90 days from handing in the final report and analyze... (The Faith of Radeta: What then?) ) In that response report, the audit entity is obliged to write down what it has done on the identified irregularities and to provide evidence that it has done so. Of course, the evidence must be complete, fully relevant, comprehensive. For example, when it comes to pay, not only does it say, I've changed the rule or I've issued other solutions, but also to deliver the bill and not just the bill, but the payment and not just one for months. There were cases when we were delivered in one, two months correctly, and then later he went back to the old one and paid off the reduced difference and that was it, but it's getting smaller. So, we give an assessment of the truthfulness and credibility of the evidence given in the response report, although these evidence is true and credible in all identified irregularities, then we put together so-called. the post-audit report in which we determine, we conclude and feel that what has been done is satisfactory and that there is no breach of the obligation of good business. And if that's not done, in one or more items that are materially relevant to the subject's business itself, then we or we suspect the truthfulness of what we've been given, then we say that they are not satisfactory evidence and that we are doing a follow-up review next year. On those matters, areas, issues that we suspect were not properly done and then we issue a review of the response report. You have on our website last year 20 audits of the response report. You heard in my opening statement that out of these 20 reports, 11 were authentic, nine were authentic, of those nine were found to be a violation of the obligation of good business, and we made a commitment to the authority responsible for carrying out repairs, corrections and so on to persons who were deemed not to be guilty, and for three entities we identified a difficult form of breach of the obligation of good business from which we identified for two, i.e. we raised a request for a replacement in front of the body who chose it. This refers to two pharmacies, a pharmacy in Šapac and a drugstore in Bora, where in the meantime, Shabac pharmacy in the town of Šapac said that the director of the pharmacy resigned, the Assembly adopted a resignation and sent us a notice, and that concludes the part. With Bor, this has not yet been done, the procedure is in progress and ends in the sense that we are going to determine whether we are going to launch a misdemeanor responsibility of the authority which, or the responsible person of the authority who has not carried it out. It's the third municipality of Luciani. It is precisely not the chosen person against whom the request for a shift would be launched, that the previous president or president of the municipality was elected. Now, what you have mentioned, I am obliged to you from the previous issue for Kosovo, we always insist whenever we meet at some meeting where representatives of Kosovo and Metohija are, to act on Resolution 1244, to mark it in the way that it was introduced and so on. As for this non-intentional use of funds, it is true that misreporting is difficult to determine whether it is wrong out of ignorance or false financial reporting, it is an intention that we do not determine but a court. So we're just determining the fact that it's so much or so much, it's not like that, it's like this, and it's the court that determines whether or not it was intentional, and from that intention whether or not it was alienation of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55385	The word is from a colleague named Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55386	I thank the chairman. Dear guests from DRI and citizens, first of all, I would like to highlight what the role of DRI is whose annual work report we are considering today and why its work is important for the constructions. Its task is to strengthen the responsibility, transparency and integrity of state authorities and the public sector, and reports by state auditors to the public and citizens should provide information on whether public authorities are properly managing trusted public funds. Its independence of those whose reports and availability of public resources are controlled is certainly crucial to control the management of public property by the National Assembly, whether by increasing it together by increasing general social wealth or by increasing public property and public interest, they are being damaged and destroyed. In serious companies management is expected by auditors and fear is found in their reports and shareholders' reactions to these findings. So in Serbia it should be, the authorities must fear the findings of auditors and citizens' reactions to them. The existence of a state audit institution is a matter of reform and European integration, that is to say, since it would be harder for citizens to learn that public officials are managing in trusted public resources. So it is an institution whose function is to cultivate public interest and its empowerment is to strengthen public interest. I want to believe that you're here with that goal, that when you find the skeleton in the closet, you'll react and you won't bend your back when someone from an influential place tells you to dangle it up a little bit. The financial supervision your institution is dealing with is covered by the European integration process in Chapter 23 and following the European Commission's latest report on Serbia's progress, progress in the domain of financial supervision has been assessed as certain and Serbia's level of preparation and level of adaptation to European standards has been assessed as moderate. I will be subjective and say that I find it absolutely insufficient, but fair to you it is to say that the work of your institution in that report is assessed as good, but that your empowerment requires political will, because the way to strengthen would be an ad hoc audit that you would be doing according to the applications and audits where the subject is audited and you would not know when he would be controlled but would be a little bit surprised, if that law allows, it seems to me by Article 35 that it allows you to work on the plan you adopt, but you have the right to change it over the year. I'd like to try a simplified way of presenting some of the findings you came up with in 2018. In that part of the public sector that you and your audits have come to, these fabulous 217 billion dinars of irregularities have been identified, which is not full of two billion euros. You have to be fair and say that it's not the total amount of embezzled money, or spent money, it's a set of various mistakes, where you have misclassified income. To try and banalize at the risk of being wrong, because I'm not an auditor but I was an external audit subject, so someone's revenue from selling services has been shown as revenue from selling goods, but these revenues have been achieved and shown, so it's collected, but it's not money that's missing, but there are cases like that. However, when all of this is collected, it's huge numbers and I have the impression that the public sector doesn't know what it has, it doesn't know where it owns and doesn't know where it leaks. So, most controlled entities, I quote, have not been given the assurance that the financial and control management system has been put up adequately, 77% of two-thirds and slightly more entities have not entered into an internal audit, even though they have been obliged to do so since 2008, and there are no sanctions, as far as I understand from your statement on the Committee for non-compliance with this legal obligation. Therefore, the establishment of an internal audit is one of the key criteria for the closure of the negotiating chapter 32, and we, as a society with one-third of the success, are implementing it for eleven years. This is just something that depends on ourselves, has nothing to do with Kosovo, has nothing to do with NATO with geopoliticals, international politics, and so on. In accordance with Article 41. The Law on the State Auditing Institution is an institution, so you are obliged, without delay, to file criminal charges, criminal charges, to address the public defender, wherever you find a breach of public interest, a felony or a criminal act, in the audit. The competent authorities are under the authority of the 3rd member to inform the DRI of their decisions, shortly before I heard that you have a problem with the D.A.'s office, that you do not receive information automatically, but only on request, which sounds illegal to me. You file criminal charges 263, 129 out of date. So it's something that violates your efforts at empowering institutions, but it's not in your domain, but it's in the domain of an independent judiciary, so Chapter 23, and the willingness of the state to develop courts and prosecutors that will enforce the law, nothing more than that, so just to start law enforcement and under the legal obligation of Article 3 of Article 41, you automatically deliver your decisions, not that you have to look for them, that you torture to get them. Article 43. The Law on the State Auditing Institution also stipulates that every year you have to audit the Republic's final budget. It is useful to learn that this final account exists as soon as you re-edit it, so it is interesting that it is never discussed in Plenum. Is that because something is hiding in that final budget account, we're staying here to study your audit report, so let's see. Your audits have found that the entities you have audited, internal regulations are adopted without the consent of the competent authorities that these internal regulations do not exist or are incomplete or inconsistencies and that, for example, there is no adequate protection against unauthorized access to funds. Translated to the family budget, the maid can at any time extract family valuables from the closet and take them out of the house, because no one's keeping it. The measures to collect claims equal to three billion dinars have not been taken, translated into the family budget, the husband does not care what the godfather owes him, the woman is worried, but must not object. These claims become obsolete, they become irreparable, and this is the damage that becomes irreparable to the benefit of the creditors, so family, state, public interest, and in favour of the debtor or godfather of this case, which in such a way benefits from the forgiveness of the debt, and it is on an independent judiciary to see whether this is also an unlawful gain of property benefit if there has been deliberate damage to trustees' interests. You do not have the authority to carry out investigations, but it may be useful to discuss amendments to the DRI Act, because if in this country the perpetrators can assume on themselves certain jurisdiction of the courts and decide in the process, perhaps you too could take over certain competences of the investigators. Incomes, they were found to be realised without legal basis, to be invoiced past the price list, friendly, below the price or misspelled. I noticed that health institutions were showing increased costs, so the increased cost of the RFO was refunding. On this basis, they made unfounded income on the damages of the Republic Fund, therefore again to the harm of public interest. About 15 billion dinars of income have been shown less by the audit entities, including the republican budget. So 15 billion revenue is missed, overlooked, forgotten. Fifteen billion is the amount of a two-year budget for the construction of the Obrenovac-Ljig road or the annual budget of the military's capital investment, the Ministry of Defence, to let citizens know how much money it is. So the two-year budget of a highway was forgotten, not established. The misclassification of expenditure, accounting for expenditures in a reduced amount or based on inadequate invoices, has been established to suspect, of course, that this is a matter of negligence, ignorance, negligence, but it may also be an evil intention to hide some expenditures, to show otherwise, that some public enterprise has spent something in favour of a private supplier, and that it should not have done so, so that the expenditure is misclassified etc. Now I'm banalizing this in some way, don't technically hold my word, that it would be understandable for the citizens, because they don't understand when you say - the illegal write-off of the claim created the cost of the current period, resulting in a reduced profit, so the state is damaged by the profit tax. It is not understandable for citizens, but something later on about the dictionary used to present these results. About 607 million dinars were spent without legal basis. So, that's, I'd say, embezzlement, criminal, criminal. It is already a direct, direct damage to the public interest. So 290 million dinars based on invalid accounting documents, simply put -- incorrect invoices. I hope these are the invoices for the goods delivered and the services done. If it hadn't been forefined, it wouldn't have been surprising. Transfer of funds to public enterprises and subsidies to local self-government. Therefore, these are subsidies granted without a programme for their use, although the programme is binding. The annual business plan is not a programme to fulfil that legal obligation. There needs to be a special programme if you want money for the subsidy. So when a teenager asks for an allowance, a smart parent asks – sorry, but what do you need money for? The analysis of the cost of this money, the effects of this money, and, of course, in the analysis of the relevance of these subsidies, what bothers is that the purpose of these subsidies is not met, because the money is spent on current costs and covering losses in public enterprises that are obviously unreformed, and the losses continue to generate, and all of this has been to the detriment of the purpose of these public enterprises, which is the development of local infrastructure. With regard to the results of the business, 300 million surplus dinars were less transferred in the following year. If I understand correctly, it means that for so much less the initial condition has been determined. Simply, on January 1st husband came and said – woman, we have 300 million less, although during New Year's Eve no one spent anything. Wiped with a rubber, that's what it sounds like to me. There's been an increase in profits. There's been a decrease in profits somewhere. Where the profits were reduced, the state was damaged for profit tax, the budget for payment and profit, and where the loss was reduced or the profit increased, it was likely going to hide or unrealized the responsibility or merit of management. Public procurement without a public procurement process, fivem euros. Over 2m euros in the wrongly implemented procedure and in violation of the principle of public procurement, and another 2m euros in where the criteria for selecting bidders were illogical in relation to the subject of public procurement, so unclear technical specifications on what is being obtained, and purchases for which the funds were not planned and approved, and an additional twom euros in purchases, without publishing on the public procurement portal or with a derogation from the volume of works in the public procurement itself. So, non-transparent, inaccurate, insecure, I'd say. It's a list of assets. The property wasn't adequately listed. What does that mean? That citizens understand what property is. Property is money in the bank, fields, houses, real estate, machinery in the hall. So these things aren't petty. It's not bolts, it's serious stuff. Forty-sevenm euros are not listed. Imagine a family who doesn't know where he owns what? Well, it can't even be a happy family, like a society like this can't be a successful society. I don't know how we privatized and sold property that was listed in privatisation entities like this. Therefore, the customers knew better what the companies they were selling owned than those companies themselves that were the subject of privatisation and sales. IN NIS, Malta, where and which resort customers knew better than I did NIS, the discrepancies in the value of capital in the APR, in the business books and decisions of the managing authority. So, two partners invest in the company and each has their own subjective opinion on how much this investment is worth, and the APR shows some third information. This company is going down by the method of accounting assessment of the assets. So the property is being depreciated at different rates, and then it's worth a hundred or ten million, depending on whether it's under the price to sell to someone or whether it's too much to get credit in the bank, to try to simplify it. About 70m euros of off-balance sheet assets have not been reported. So it's someone else's stash. So the man has a dry cleaner's office and has other people's pumpkins on dry cleaning and he shows that it's zero in books, if I get the problem well. The audit of the final budget account has not established who makes a list of assets that no user owes. How do we know what this property is worth and where it is? The state auditor at higher school institutions found threem euros in overwrought earnings. These are state colleges. The purpose of anti-urban protection, thank you for that, will certainly be the subject of analysis. We'll ask for an analysis with the Minister of Resort in Agriculture. So we have a system of anti-building protection that was found not to meet its purpose, and the purpose is protection from the city. So these are all the reasons why citizens have a hard time living, because we live in a country whose final account the auditor put the reserve on. The private management companies, which receive a reserve on the final account by the auditors of the management, shake the chairs and shareholders raise the issue of responsibility at the first next meeting of shareholders. I was the subject of review, and I got a positive opinion. If I had a spare, I'd have a problem with those who put me in that place. How to strengthen the DRI and how to improve the effects of its findings and why do it at all? First, why? The measure you need in this country is seen on one slide where you gave direct benefit to the public interest from respecting the recommendations from your findings, which is 2m euros in increased revenues, fourm euros in reduced expenditures. So that's six million euros of pure benefits added to society. Over 24m euros in corrections and 3.7 billion euros in recorded assets. These are huge numbers and it is a direct benefit to the citizens. You worked, I saw on your site, a study of your own time, back in 2013 with USAID. Some recommendations have been made there to strengthen your work and some, I think, have already been respected – the establishment of a parliamentary subcommittee dealing with the audit, the introduction of audits on the purpose of business processes. I would suggest, for example, that you do the purpose of reviewing the assignments for the entrance exams for a small graduation, to see why the second time in a row, the second time in a recent history, to say, are breaking through the math tests. How to change the process so that someone's braider doesn't expose children and parents to extra stress. Let's just say, an audit of that purpose would be great to do these very days. So I'm saying it's important that you have the opportunity to do an ad hoc audit on someone's application. I think you simplify the language that you present information to citizens, to introduce graphic interpretations with intuitive infographics. These slides that you gave in the presentation with this report are excellent, but again, a little terminology should be adapted to people who are not from the accounting industry, to introduce some online education, some promotional video clips for television, for the Internet, to think about some curricula and programme for students of legal, economic sciences, because new generations should be those who impose the principle of responsibility of government towards citizens in managing citizens' property, because citizens are the owners of public finances. The Dutch Supreme Auditing Institution has a printed media that regularly publishes. The login portal, you have a Norwegian model where the portal is, where citizens can make an application by default form. Applications have been pooled for all of these independent auditor institutions, citizens' protectors, public information trustees, the anti-corruption agency. So, bring the job closer to the citizens. Because many have told us – it is pointless to take part in a session with the State Auditor, the effects of their work are limited because the applications are outdated. The legal proposals you make must come to the feast, must be included in the congregation procedure, extend the time limit for obsolescence. If you 31.6. come into possession of someone's final account for the events of the previous year, you, when you find an offence, are likely to have become obsolete by then, while the proceedings are pending, until the verdict comes to a solution, it's obsolete. Therefore, infringement proceedings must be extended. Increase the threatened amounts of fines, turn the most serious crimes into criminal acts, introduce a protective measure of banning the actions of perpetrators of serious crimes and crimes wherever there is none. In banking and in insurance, you cannot be in the management bodies unless you have met the criteria fit end proper, so that you have criminally in your biography etc. It needs to be introduced everywhere. Introduce specialization in criminal courts, because your problem is complicated for offenders of general practice, etc. Since I'm running out of time, I'd like to thank the chairman for giving me a few more seconds to come. If there's any chance of a further conversation, there's still a few things we can talk about. I certainly wish you good luck in your work and for your function to be as powerful in this society as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55387	Thank you. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55388	Thank you for your words. Thank you for the support you've given, and I'm just going to, not answer that, but just to complete a little bit of what you've shown. The audit shall not be carried out on the basis of reports submitted, but on the principle of risk assessment. Where the risk is estimated to be the greatest benefit from the revision in terms of contributing to the system's problems, this will be audited. So, we get constantly very often from citizens, from groups, from municipalities, from businesses, from individuals, however, and from the state authorities, we get all kinds of information, etc., and we keep it all, and when the time comes for preparation, proposed programmes, then on the basis of criteria and these additional estimates based on the risk of points, we also make a proposal on the Council, as the highest authority, to bring the review programme. What I agree with you is that we've given a particular meaning review and maybe, here, now a little bit and I join, no matter how much the waist is holding me back, and so much simplification is needed, why is reviewing the purpose more necessary than other types of audits for the citizens? Each type of audit is required. The revision of financial reports requires management, owner, administration, committees, buyers, suppliers, banks, trade unions and all other stakeholders, but citizens are not so concerned about whether it is less or less wrong or to which authority, to which the continent etc. The revision of the regularity of business should be the most needed of the National Assembly for MPs to see how the laws you have passed are implemented in the public sector by entities who are obliged to do so. Well, when we say that the most infringing of the Budgetary System Act, the Bill of Salaries, the Law on Public Procurement, therefore, should be seen whether the provisions in those laws are quite adequate or not to be handled adequately on these grounds. The greatest benefit for citizens should be to review the purpose. So, not getting into what the reports are and what business is, how much they get in the way they get in the money invested. Because public funds are citizens' funds and they should get the right service for those funds. The question is, did they get the right service for the funds, or could they pay less for the service? We did a lot of training in that sense, and last year we did, we had nine auditors trained in that area, now we have 48. We had two teams, you see, we have two reports against the construction and subsidies. We will next year, if God does, have 12 reports because now we have 12 teams that are now working 12 topics. I really thank all MPs, especially on the board we had words about it and you MPs can run for themes, which is very good, but that's again the base where we collect topics and evaluate effects. There are not so many of us to do all the topics, but in principle, the greater the benefits of the audit that we have adopted in the revision programme. That's why it's very important that you mention it. As far as Chapter 32 is concerned, I am obliged to say that external audit in this area, i.e. state audit, has its place, role and mission. Three basic tasks we have. The first is to preserve independence or be independent. The second is to carry out audits in greater scope and financial and regularity and purpose. The third is to establish a mechanism for systematic monitoring of the implementation of recommendations. Nothing is to determine irregularity unless it is fixed. In that sense, we are in the process of buying the AMS system through which we will automatically, digitizedly perform the audit process, have bases for irregularity, non-existence bases, bases for entities, bases for the auditors themselves, as well as bases for recommendations, and we will always know what it looks like. Here's one piece of information. The audit, we gave a number of recommendations last year for first priority. When we entered the analysis, since the deadlines for responding reports were up, we took away what we're going to look at in the review of the response report, we found that 89% of these recommendations were implemented, the first priority, when they were supposed to deliver the report to us. That 10% of the recommendations in the implementation process were to be fully implemented and 1% of the recommendations were not implemented, this is for the first priority recommendations. For the second and third priority, we have no information, I said, due to the limitations for this number three, as well as the cumulative period, which will improve our AMS system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55389	Thank you. A fellow Eagle? Here you go. [[Vladimir Orlic: Right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55390	Thank you. Of course, I have nothing to resent or to supplement Mr. Pejovic's words, I thank him for the exhaustive explanations he provides today regarding the work he's doing with the DRI. It's absolutely everything in place. What I wanted to comment on, it's a few political assessments we've heard today from authorised representatives of different parliamentary groups. First of all, regarding the DRI report on what can be monitored today in Serbia and how. We should never lose sight, ladies and gentlemen, of what the DRI is doing, and that's the question of assessing whether it's under the law or not. Among other things, we can estimate just because of that congregation majority that passed some laws when we ask whether something is in accordance or not with the law that regulates public procurement, that it is known by whom, it can be estimated whether it is by law or not. Whoever adopted this law and who, it is no secret, does not hesitate that everything that is suspicious or potentially controversial, regardless of who is involved in political matters, whether a representative of a local self-government belonging to a SNS, a party of a local majority or a parliamentary majority, whatever you want, or the other side, so thanks to these people today we can appreciate whether something is by law or not and that we are dealing with things that are controversial in the way the law prescribes. You have in one of the answers to the allegations concerning the total amount of funds you misexploited in the previous year, which you say, among other things, is what you said to "Glas Podrinja" in Šapac, which is a tended text published, that it is not true that the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget is not being analysed. It's mentioned as a subject today. So ten reports have been published on your institution's website and each one deals with the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Among other things, it means the Labour Act of your DRI. So it's one irrefutable proof that these things are done in this country transparently. If we want to interpret things in a trend, so we say – absolutely everything that is written there means crime, and Mr Đurić did not do it, and I respect that, he said – there is no need to interpret things like that, but we need to make sure that we do not fall into traps or those things that seem potentially good and sound. You say, for example, something isn't recorded as property somewhere, so we're not dealing with whether it's removed or not. We have to deal with it, because if we don't want to deal with it, then we're asking questions in one million and one place. Here, for example, in the Old Town municipality, it seems to me to be still in the local majority of the board group DJB. Whether you're involved with them or not, I don't know, but if you had until yesterday, I know that. Other groups representing parliamentary parties, among other things, which have been critical today about the presentation of our authorised representative. Now, the DRI in that municipality a few years ago finds, if we talk about what wasn't recorded, that 600 apartments were not recorded, that 70 garages were not recorded. Now, should we say – that is proof that you participate in these things, or are you others involved in these things? We as serious people are not going to say that, but we're going to say that's the problem and it has to be clarified, it has to be made clear like the 55 million that are now questionable agencies, agencies that obviously engage in the needs of Mark Bastac and those who help him be in power. So, it's also controversial and it has to be determined, as well as those, it seems to me, 55 million on the same municipality, on the Old Town municipality, a sports center subsidy, which spends millions on graphic logo solutions. So these are serious things and these are serious questions and it needs to be approached in a serious way, if for nothing else, so we don't find ourselves in a position... (President: Bringing the end. I'm finishing my sentence. So we don't find ourselves in a position to, like, do. in the Old Town or in Sapac, because of what the DRI determines, we tomorrow need to explain to some people where millions of euros are, Zelenovic in Sapac to explain millions of euros or this Bastic in the Old Town. But these are the things that directly concern whether certain territories, certain people in that territory, will have for those things that they used to allocate their money for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55391	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55392	Thank you. So, with the results from the DRI's annual report, I have not in any way suggested that these findings are not followed, that it is not consistently removed and, in the end of the line, we have heard from your answer that the priority recommendations have been adopted 89%, etc. So, fortunately, we have a decent percentage of the response to the recommendations. You also have the practice of responding reports, where the subject of the audit sends his report to your report, where he explains what he did according to the recommendations. You are also responding to this response report, etc. And whether in some municipalities, where I don't know who in power, there were some buildings, apartments, etc., well, in the end line, you're going to do a review, there are inspections, there are courts. For me, the bigger problem is that you don't get information from the D.A.'s office about their decisions on the criminal charges you've filed, although my understanding is that Article 41(3) is that The DRI law explicitly obliges the prosecutor's office, it explicitly states that the authorities of Article 1 inform the DRI of their decisions. So, the provision is imperative, they have to keep you informed, not wait for you to ask for something. Just to reduce irregularities, these two billion irregularities, which are in various municipalities, according to the previous speaker, with various authorities being established, present, former, mixed, etc., is precisely why it is important for your institution to be strengthened. I'm just going to add some more references that I haven't had time for, because I think it's important, just because of the previous one. To extend the term of office to members of the Council. Five years is short for me. Then, correct the laws on state administration, civil servants and public agencies and strengthen management responsibilities, introduce mandatory continuous professional training with knowledge checks, introduce an obligation to discuss response reports and to audit the relevance, all in order to strengthen your role and respect the law in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55393	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55394	Thank you. So, when some things are identified as controversial and I agree, then you have to approach the solution of the situation in a valid way, which means removing the perceived shortcomings. But what about things that are chronically repeated? What about things that are controversial from year to year? That's what I wanted to point to. And, for example, when. Someone who participates in the local government, as he participates in the local government, can correct me again who knows I'm wrong, I don't think I'm wrong, the committee group of DJs, so they say, among other things, the government in the Old Town government in a party-parasitic way, whether this is a kind of confession or an ash spill, I don't know, but listen, which one they don't care who's from as long as he's playing in the same corrupt music. There were just some who made up local government in Old Town because of the length of my exposure, but I'm talking about serious problems. So whoever's in it is saying, yes, yes, we've been working together, burazerically, we've been doing it corruptly, and it's been that way for years. That's what they've been saying for years. In April of this year, the Old City spent a total of 127.5 million dinars from the budget for the current year, of which 54.7 million went to the accounts of NGOs, the most represented among them "Rift Legal" and "Codeks Trade". The daily press, you must have seen, published those contracts. Here is Rifle Legal, here is the Codex Trade. And, it is known, it is well known that people are hired through these agencies in this way, the physical escort of Bastac, who is otherwise to the misfortune of people living in the Old Town, the president of the municipality, in his actions of possession of construction sites, the physical harassment of workers who work there fairly, and no policy has ever done anything to anyone, they have never hurt anyone, breaking up construction fences, breaking up, taking down traffic signs. That's what people pay for. It didn't come a month ago, landed from heaven for the first time, and last year, it was also found in April, 55 million were recorded, 11% of the budget that went to these same people and these same hooligans. When such things happen, it directly concerns the interests of the citizens. That is why it is very important that we speak openly of these things, that we condemn them and, gentlemen, that we do not participate in such things, nor by supporting local government, and pretend that we are not there, nor by what we say – if I am no longer in an organization that I was in until seven days ago, I never had anything to do with it. There is a responsibility beyond the one established by the DRI, and it is called political responsibility. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55395	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The word has a colleague, Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55396	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the respected representatives of the DRI and the honourable MPs, is on the agenda today a report on the work of your institution and it is a very important parameter that tells all of us how we did last year, but what it is that we can improve in the coming period. When we talk about DRI, we are talking about an institution that allows for the transparency of the system that we all advocate. It's not an easy job, but we can boast that in recent years transparency is growing. Serbia must learn how to manage its resources wisely, it must learn how to use public finances wisely, because when we talk about public finances, we are talking about our money belonging to Serbian citizens. In order for Serbia's citizens to have confidence, we must use and spend the most meaningful money for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. It is important to be aware that trust is very difficult to gain, but that it is very easy to lose and that just spending public finances is one way for political parties in power to lose trust if they do not do so in a good way. The state audit institution is an independent body, but as you said, there is no possibility of absolute independence. However, we believe that this independence currently represented at a high enough level, but we hope that it will be higher in the coming years. We talked, and we had examples here of how you do frame, finance, etc., and that's all in accordance with the law in a good way, and we really don't think it's any problem when we talk about the independence of institutions. The encouraging fact is the strategic planning of the DRI, which primarily refers to purpose, which is very important and, as far as I understand it, this year will be 12 reports of purpose, which is six times more than in the previous year, which is certainly for every praise. This allows Serbian citizens to know where their money is spent, but above all to prevent certain corrupt actions and thus solve the systemic problems we have in society. What is also very important is that this is all in line with the regulations required by the EU, and that we are not in breach here. A significant result is also when we talk about the justification of the formation of commissions and different working bodies, especially when we talk about those members of committees who receive certain fees for their work, so that now in some way and the purpose of these commissions is included, in terms of assessing their work. I would also point out an important fact, which is that these revisions of purpose were made and certain savings. I'd like to give an example I've heard, which is that the United Kingdom has saved on this year-on-year performance audit, 11 times the cost they have, or their budget. In order to have greater and better results, it is important to make better communication between consumers of public finances, public budgets and DRIs, in order to better justify the budget money they have spent, i.e. to make any irregularities that exist easier. We are aware of the fact that there are most irregularities at local level, then at urban, or republican levels, where budgets are much higher, but it is a very good thing that the State Auditing Institution controls bigger budgets more often, and there are minor irregularities, that is, when we talk about larger amounts of money. Also, what is very important, what this government advocates, is the digitisation and electronic administration, which our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has been talking about for years. This is very important when we talk about electronic document keeping, about electronic signature and a lot of other benefits that primarily allow end-users benefits, which are citizens of Serbia. Digitalisation of the electronic administration is a significant step when we talk about curbing corruption, increasing the efficiency of public services, which is why we believe that when we talk about digitisation, the revision of relevance will have much better results and will really affect the quality of life of Serbian citizens. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support your work report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55397	The word is a colleague of Nejo Jovanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55398	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pejovic and his associates, at the very beginning, when it comes to what we are discussing today, and that is your report, I will point out the unequivocally clear position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which is that in the day of voting we will support this report, because there are more reasons for that. Given that my esteemed colleagues who discussed it before me from a professional point of view, classically economic-financial, have explained their views when it comes to certain parts of your report, I will not do it in this way, because I am not an economist, but a lawyer, because you will allow me to take from this legal position some views and some thinking that I think may help you, in some future reporting period, to perhaps have a certain shift in quality this report and was more positive than it is now. Of course, without any reason to criticise this report. First of all, we have to go from the elemental point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of the law. Indeed, you are the institution that represents the highest audit body in the Republic of Serbia, the revision of the public funds of the Republic of Serbia. And we have no doubt in any case your independence and your independence in the work, because you have shown it in a practical sense. What's here today in most remarks is a fact that relates to your relationship with the courts. I've got to be very specific about what's hard to suspect. First, we know that the courts are absolutely independent and independent in their work and that in this direction you cannot influence either the process or the decision-making process. In addition, your initial part when it comes to filing criminal charges, criminal charges, in addition, it's not your jurisdiction, it's the attorney's jurisdiction, and it's the attorney-in-chief's jurisdiction, it's about something we need to analyze with special attention. Each subject, regardless of the many of them that are obsolete, a vast number of outdated objects, must be analysed individually to determine the exact cause of obsolescence. Why am I saying this? Because the causes of obsolescence aren't just about the lack of justice, non-engagement, non-engagement of the prosecution. We cannot generalise a situation where there can be other objective and not subjective reasons leading to obsolescence. Of course, I don't want in that sense to ablimate anyone who's part of a judicial system who's reluctantly contributed to obsolescence. And here I fully agree with my predecessors who discussed this topic. But, I repeat, with special attention, each subject must have a special type of analysis to determine the cause of the obsolescence. Secondly, we can learn some lessons from your report, but not just us, but also the promoter, because we are not legislators. The legislator, when it comes to regulation, of the standards concerning your work, is a resolute ministry. In this regard, the Resort Ministry also has some kind of obligation to draw certain conclusions from your report and determine whether this law, which we have adopted, has in practical terms achieved its purpose, or whether it has given appropriate results in practical application. Why am I focusing on this issue now? Exactly because of this external and internal audit relationship. To be fully open and honest, internal audit and external audit must be in the correlation and communication between external and internal audit is inevitable. Is there communication between external and internal audits? I claim it does not exist, but not in general, but in part. Why? Because internal audits at the level of local self-government have not yet taken place in full capacity. That's the first reason. The second reason is I'm doing an internal audit. Were internal audits under the proper type of supervision and control of their work? Do we have reports, not only of this, but also of previous reports, on whether internal audits have achieved the results expected of them in their work? Therefore, it is a question that several citizens are asking for an answer to the same question, and I think perhaps in that direction a report should be added. As for the transfer of responsibility, it seems to me that my colleague just said that the perpetrators are taking over the jurisdiction of the courts. It is not true, the perpetrators cannot assume the jurisdiction of the courts, because they have clearly transferred public powers within which they must move and carry out those tasks, take those actions which have been placed in their jurisdiction by law. Mr Pejovic, what is commendable, is that you have provided accurate information on the implementation of 436 audit reports, that it is covered by various types of control within the competence of your institution 209 subjects. Now I would ask you, if I'm right, and you correct me if I may be wrong, if 209 subjects are also covered by this report and by controls -- are we doing two conclusions that may be diametrically different? One, that both your work and the financial discipline and the security that is being introduced through you in the state of Serbia in some way has improved the situation, so we have much less contradiction and illegality than it was in some previous period or other conclusion, which I do not believe exists, or that it can be accepted, which is that 209 subjects, which is an uncomparably smaller number compared to one of the previous ones, the report was solely because there was not enough capacity to include a larger number of entities? Why am I saying I don't believe it? I don't believe it because I know, and I'm sure the Government of the Republic of Serbia has also made a certain contribution through the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to raise your capacities and your resources to a higher level, and you've done a little bit of commenting yourself, I hope that I understand you well, that you have far more potential in terms of teams, in terms of teams that are on the ground and that carry out certain controls. Whether that's enough or not, it's more of a question that you're going to give answers to both us and the citizens, which is why we need to make certain conclusions again. When it comes to legislation, we really need to take care of the future period, to improve existing laws by quality. There is still some space left, and when it comes to corruption, no matter what we have raised legislation to a higher level of quality. When it comes to the Public Procurement Act or to some accompanying laws that are complementary to the Public Procurement Act, there remains room for certain types of corruption or corruption, in any case something that is harmful, which is against the law and which merits proper proceedings, i.e. the imposition of appropriate sanctions. In this direction, you need to have our support in order to help you in terms of the legislation, which you normally point to through the recommendations in which to change, supplement, etc., it is our obligation and our task to help you in terms of adopting a law that will, in practical terms, contribute to what our common goal is, and that is that we are just revising the financial reports of a figure with a factual state, and that the fact that the situation is a positive state, that you have as little work as possible. That's the goal. What citizens also need to point out is that you really included all state audit entities within the limits of what is controlled in this report. What, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must point out, is that it is very commendable that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, the organisation of compulsory social security, the budgetary funds, the NBS, which is really yours, let me say, one of the most prominent obligations, given the competence of the NBS business and its role in the economic and financial sphere, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, public enterprises, political parties, legal persons, natural persons, etc., so all those who can be covered by the law. When it comes to political parties, I will only briefly comment that it seems to me that a report should state what it is that has contributed to certain contradictions, certain illegalities in a time period of ten years and more when it comes to the functioning of political parties and the financing of political parties. I will remind you that we have in force the Law on the financing of political parties which, in any case, has a fairly clear and precise regulation, but on the other hand, that is not the reason why he does not, as such, experience certain changes, additions that imply that this part of the financing of political parties is also being compared to what your report states that we do not have problems and that we have no reason to commit ourselves to this issue as a violation of the law. No, on the contrary. I don't really have that information from 2001, 2002, 2005, 2006, until 2012, what is the status of political organisations, parties to your work, to your activity, to your authority through control, audit supervision and everything else. In the end, what I want to point out is that I can make one suggestion, if, of course, it is acceptable for you, which is to pay more attention to the educations that you normally do. Right now, I'm not just talking about the educations of those who have been subdued as your staff under the affairs and responsibilities of the institutions, but those over whom your affairs and responsibilities are concerned, which is exactly what my predecessors pointed to. These are people who work at the level of local self-government in public administrations, municipal administrations, city administrations, etc. There's our problem generator, and then it would be dangerous to generalize the story again, so let's say -- all the mayors of municipal and city administrations are corrupt and all of them are maliciously or deliberately breaking the law, in violation of certain imperial norms, etc. This would be very bad, very incorrect, incorrect and in any case would not contribute to the solution of the problem. We must therefore come from the fact that, due to lack of education, lack of knowledge, insufficient professional profiling, insufficient professional references or capacities, however, the situation of entering into a phase of violations of the law, especially when it comes to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, the control of procedures in public procurement, which is generally, to be honest, not respecting, which is why we come to these issues and what is most present in practice, is the non-compliance of normative acts with the provisions of the laws and sublaws. This discrepancy is currently generating problems at the level of local self-government, and attention should be paid in this direction to remove these problems. At the very end, these were only extremely well-intentioned suggestions on one side. On the other hand, one assessment that could be given from this angle without the intention to devalue anything my predecessors have said and that you have made extremely clear with a very clear and unequivocal explanation, so that you enjoy support in your work, in the work of your colleagues, your associates, and indeed we will have the opportunity to support you even when it is voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55399	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55400	Thank you. I'll try to help you better and agree, and also be in the spirit of what you've brought out, which I thank on behalf of the institution. First of all, the causes of obsolescence. I agree that it should be analysed. We haven't said anything further than information, we've even said that we're not 100% convinced that this number is really out of date, because we don't have the information that maybe something isn't being run in some form, but in time it's gotten into absolute obsolescence. What's in the middle, you've explained well, needs to be analyzed and each case individually. Secondly, you've certainly listed what I've been saying so far, just for a quick repeat, we're not proposing to change the law. The Resort Ministry of Law Change is the Ministry of Finance, so now we have to put that on the basis of whether it's exactly in the spirit of preserving full independence, that's one thing. Secondly, let's not forget, if we were to talk about the law and the amendments to the law, let's not forget that everyone in the institution who does the audit is called auditors, whether they were younger or higher, independent, state-owned, etc. However, they are not called under the law. We only have two categories of auditors, a state auditor and an authorised state auditor, and they're leaders, let's say, of these teams or teams. All others are advisors, which is neither logical nor linguistical, and it's not meaningful, because imagine when someone is employed in an institution, he's a junior advisor, instead of being a junior auditor. What you've been saying about internal and state audits, they have standards that speak about the relationship between the internal, what's internal, what's the state's audit. I wouldn't do much of that, because it seems to me that maybe it's not yet time, because the internal audit hasn't taken place in the scope and work of individual reporting that should be based on the standards that they have, based on risk assessments, so that we can do that. We can do this through an audit of the purpose of determining how it works from the angle of internal audit, because it doesn't make sense that the internal auditor doesn't write so many irregularities, and when we determine the irregularities in that one, we find that there are such irregularities. Secondly, this dilemma of yours about the number of subjects will be very easy to clarify. We're in charge of over 10,000 subjects. There are four sectors here that carry out the audit and the fifth sector of methodology that prepares everything so that these four with an employee, times four sectors, carry out a review. Each sector has a number of competent entities. The first sector around 2,500, the second over 6,000, the third about 400, 500, the fourth about 700, 800 etc. But when I was talking in the opening part about the number of subjects, I said that number 209, the number that didn't cover everything, because the number of reports referred to 209 subjects. Take, for example. the consolidation of the audit report for a municipality or for a city. Here, let's get some ropes. Užice has the Assembly, mayors, more administrations, has indirect users from libraries, museums, institutions of preschools, institutions of culture, sports institutions and local communities. They're all entities, and one is a revision for the consolidation of Užica. So there's one report for the Uzice, and it includes 40, 50 users. So this 209 isn't 209, but it's a larger number that we didn't do. Here, just for comparison, like I knew you'd ask me that. This year we had 209 subjects, last year 201 the same way. This year we had 436 products, last year 376. So the number of products increases, the number of reports increases, the number of irregularities decreases. Now, from what base? We can't say that's purely from the basis of improvement. So, yes, there are improvements, but we don't audit each year the same, so that the data is comparable. Every year, we revise the final account of the budget, four funds, the National Bank and others according to the possibilities, a number of local authorities, businesses, political parties and others. So we really make sure that we don't reduce the number of reports, that we increase, that we follow trends, and we determine that there are reductions, but the reduction is slow. We suggest, that it might be better, especially in the corner of financial reporting, because if you remove what we have mentioned and education itself, we participate in them and with local authorities. We had to organize for the presidents of the municipality, for the management chiefs, for the finance chiefs, for the internal auditors, the best response was with the management chief and the finance department, and the weakest response was with the president of the municipalities. We're with health care now. So we'll find a way to talk to everyone. We can't have an education to explain how something needs to be done, it would be a conflict of interest. You're a lawyer and you know well that when we tell someone right, tomorrow we find out that it's not right, he'll always have an argument to say - that's what you told me. We speak in education that we should not, and he will conclude, have regulations, sublaws, internal acts as necessary. So there's a lot of incompetence in management. There's a lot of incompetence in the professional organs. That's what you said. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55401	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55402	I thank the chairman. Of course we agree in general, just one explanation so that we don't steal the dilemma that we're in some opposite attitude when it comes to education. I didn't talk about education in the sense of imposing some solutions that are within the framework of business and jurisdiction, because it would really be a conflict of interest, and then of course by the nature of my job, I wouldn't want to contribute to this conflict of interest and happen because it has certain legal consequences. I was talking about something else. Since I came from the town you mentioned, which is Uzice, and I am familiar with what the DRI did, and in the previous period, I have contributed to this local self-government repairing its situation, to consolidate some situations and solve some problems that have been present for a long time, I was talking about something else. I was talking about getting through that so-called. A negative sound, a negative reflection of everything that happens to disclosures, transparency, everything that indicates to those who deal with matters that are subject to control by the DRI in order to draw certain conclusions, so that these problems don't happen, so that these mistakes don't happen again. It's the essence of my proposal for some kind of education, because it's not a classic education, it's an indication of mistakes that can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55403	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55404	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55405	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and members of the DRI Council, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in a few sentences, I will try to sum up and say something about our position on the report and on the work of the DRI, their report and previous co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular with the Committee on Finance, the budget and control of the spending of public funds and of course the co-operation of the DRI subcommittee, whose presidency I chaired in the previous two mandates of the National Assembly. What is essential is to say that members of the DRI Council headed by the president, but also those who logistically assist in this hard work, a largely important job for our country and for our development and for everything that we have defined as our strategic public policy even in 2014 when Aleksandar Vucic became prime minister and until today, it is possible that these people have done their job best, that they have concrete results and that the results of this work in the report are seen and felt every year. This is most important when it comes to saving public funds, better control and the fact that public administration, state administration, state-owned enterprises, local self-government, funds controlled by the DRI are more effective in their work, legally functioning and operating in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia that treat the work of these organisations, institutions and institutions and of course businesses. What I'm going to devote a little more time to is what the DRI started to do a few years ago, and what I essentially think is more important than what the DRI already does routinely, it's a control of legality, it's a measure of purpose, i.e. an assessment of the purpose of the functioning and operation of state-owned enterprises, companies, funds, institutions and organisations. It is important to note that the DRI and its work are one of the key links in the chain of our fight against corruption and what we have defined in our anti-corruption strategy that we have adopted here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that our relationship to corruption, our relationship to irregularities in the procurement process and all those activities that concern the spending of money on citizens of the Republic of Serbia is such that we will not tolerate, with our colleagues from the DRI, we do not tolerate the spending of any single dinar in a way that is not appropriate, in a way that is not in accordance with the law and what is even more important, in a way that will not bring any new concession, some new result for those institutions that endure from the budget and which are supported by the money of all citizens of our country. This is like this majority in parliament, our relationship with the DRI and we have shown how much we really care about this fight against corruption, how much we care for as little irregularities as possible in the public procurement process, how much we care for that every cent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is spent in the most meaningful and in the best possible way, to get what is said best for the least possible money and in this way to make our state a much better, more efficient, because what we are obliged to say to our citizens as MPs, as representatives of all citizens, every dinar that, together with these people from the DRI, has been saved by our country in the past few years has gone to those measures that are of the greatest importance for everyday better life and prosperity of our citizens, regardless of what time they are active, whether they are our pensioners and our grandparents, or our children, which are going to be of this improvement, this money that they feel through the new policies in the cities, which we are the most socialised by the Bulgarians, which our citizens, and the most social institutions, which are responsible through the social institutions, which are responsible for the institutions, which are the institutions, which are responsible. I will note that only last year did we build more than 100km of highways, that over the past few years we have retraced Serbia to this so-called. The hard infrastructure, the roads that are most important and most important for the level of investment that comes into our country. Is that the result perhaps for some dispute, is that perhaps our citizens who have had enough patience, which perhaps now some of them are impatient and want the result to show up tomorrow, in a month, in two months, I have to say that it's almost impossible. When someone wants to invest in Serbia, invest their money, employ our workforce, so let that be 10, 20, 50 people's investment, at least six months to a year. In order for these investors to invest in our country, we have to offer them something, we have to offer them good logistics, we have to offer them good and quality transport, we have to offer them good roads, we have to be better than our countries next door, than our competitors in the neighbourhood, and not only in the territory of the Western Balkan countries, but we are now in one integrated area of Europe, although we are not formally members of the EU, but we are fighting a battle and competence with our neighbours and countries that are members of the EU, such as Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, but we are fighting a battle that will attract more investment, which will bring better and quality companies, and who will provide more favourable and good business environment, so that we can meet what you are the key goal of this government, which is the key goal of our country president, which is new employment. That result in the past, here, for four years you've seen it. In 2012, in 2013, we had an unemployment rate of 26.2%, now that unemployment rate is at 12.9%, in the city of Belgrade at slightly more than 10%. We are slowly approaching those economic parameters that define the medium-developed countries of Europe, such as our pandas, our partners, our friends from Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, to which we can definitely and truly see how they have arranged their system, how they have arranged their economy, and how they defend their national interests. The work of this institution, its relationship with the National Assembly, is of the highest possible national interest, because of their work, of their efficiency, of their potential and capacity depends on how our country progresses in the next period, depends on whether we make a hundred kilometers of highways at an annual level, whether we set aside for capital investments much more than today and in the previous few years, depends on whether we create such a soft or hard infrastructure to attract as many investors from developed countries as Germany, France, Italy, the United States, and some Asian countries, the Middle East countries, which will not invest in a country where an unregulated system of state administration, administration, in which corruption flourishes and in which there are no conditions to obtain profit in a fair and competitive way, and where profit is impossible to fertilise. We definitely showed it in the previous period, and we're not going to be demagoguely talking about it right and right, but I'm going to speak the language of the digits, the language of the numbers. Only foreign direct investment in our country last year, so for 2018, was 3.3 billion euros. Yes, you heard very well, 3.3 billion euros, it is more investment in our country than in all countries together in the Western Balkans, i.e. the former Yugoslavia. It is not by chance and it is not Serbia that has now become the favorite of some foreign and large countries and their companies, but rather Serbia has worked diligently to make such a business environment, that these investors are happy to come to our country, that we have qualified labour force, that we have a state administration and administration that is efficient and not prone to corruption, in which the building permits are obtained in 28 days, in which the procedure is united, in which the inspection is united, in which the auditor is allowed to enter a unit of local self-government, in a state-owned company, in a public-communal enterprise and to do his job, as Mr Pejovic did in his day-to-day work in our country, and without having any pressure from anyone. Why is that? Because we are responsible people, because we are not the ones who will pass the laws and who will have institutions and set up institutions for the sake of order. No, we are people who are responsible, who are state-oriented and, of course, capable of a new leadership and a new approach to the state, business, new employment and, of course, of what is most important in one country and its functioning, by introducing order. That is why the State Audit Institute, although reporting to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is very often seen and exchanged ideas, initiatives, we co-operate, never for the previous seven years, here, there is the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Tomic, never questioned what is called autonomy and independence of people working in the State Auditing Institution. Because Aleksandar Vukic started an unfettered and unspeakable fight against corruption in 2012 and we, of course, support it day and day and we will support it in the next period. What's, of course, also the language of numbers, is that we've recently brought down this level of irregularities from as much as 656 billion dinars to some 195 billion. Yes, it's a huge number, it's a huge amount of money, especially for our country whose budget is about nine billion euros somewhere, and the GDP is about 35, but this kind of leap, this kind of shift, this kind of progress is seen, and it's reflected in our local self-government, funds, state institutions and organizations and public enterprises doing better. We just, I have to give that example, for the first time in the past 30 years, a state-owned company, state-owned enterprises. What they achieve as profits put into the budget and thus provide ministries, institutions and everyone else with public policies in our country. And what is contitio son of qua non functioning our country and our government, our president and this majority? New jobs, new investments, new kilometers of highways. It's Serbia. Yes, we will continue with the austerity measures, we will continue. We have not completed economic reforms in this country, Mrs Radeta, and we will continue to implement them successfully. Of course, like you, we support them in this and we have supported them for several years, to expand their capacity, to give opportunity to our young people who are in the area of law, in the area of finance, so that they can prove themselves at one of the most important state affairs, control of state institutions, spending of state and budgetary resources and of course their purpose. We didn't give up saving policy. We'll give up when we increase our gross domestic product to maybe 60-70 billion, it's not far from that moment. But everyone was talking to us back then, too, most of them in Parliament and Wolf -- it's not good, it's not going to be an investment, we're not going to be able to survive that. Here, not that we survived, but we reduced the public debt to below 50%, but we reduced the fiscal deficit, we don't have it anymore. In 2013, we had 8%, which is why we are in the high place of Duing Business List of the World Bank. When an investor from South Korea, the United Arab Emirates, Canada thinks about where to invest, whether to invest in Albania or invest in Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia, it has no dilemma. Why? Well, because we're reliable, because we know what we're doing, because we're not politicians and we run one responsible and economic and social policy and we have a partnership as a National Assembly, as an institution that implements and has a legislative and representative and control function, we carry out one responsible policy, primarily because our citizens are the most important to us and because our citizens are focused. Their employment, their well-being, their better lives are what we fight for both in this House and in the Government, and I will certainly not be immodest if I say we have excellent results in that domain. During my speech, I wrote it very well, and noted it, my esteemed colleague, Vice-President of Parliament, Verica Radeta, spoke and delivered her opinion on the co-operation of the State Auditing Institution with international institutions, other countries. In contrast to her position, I have the view that this is good, that we cannot be in any domain, and of course audits and control of state authorities and state-owned companies cannot be out of the world. Because of course we are working in line with the specificities of our state administration, our economy and the structure of our economy and our country and our political, social and any other system and arrangements, but it is very important that we have an exchange of experiences with other countries and with audit institutions from all over the world and that what is good if we can apply, we apply it here in our country. No matter what you think of some country of political work of the state audit institution in the United Kingdom, Great Britain or Scotland, it has nothing to do with politics, it's independent institutions, it's institutions that serve to do their job and to be a control factor for state bodies and state institutions. You, Mr. Pejovic and your colleagues and my colleagues from the Finance Committee know very well what it's like in Great Britain, what it's like when a top state auditor appears somewhere, as it is in the US budget office, in the House of Representatives or in the Senate, it's the most important committees, it's the most important office. They have huge money and what's most important is that people work here of the highest possible integrity, the greatest patriots that are responsible for spending money go the best way possible, the most honest possible way. The question is whether this money in these developed countries that have DRI for decades as it is in the UK, so it's probably 70/80 years old, is not asking the question of legal spending, but it's going to be going to the second level and the purpose of spending public funds and I think it's good and it should be in some way, why don't we have DRI since 2006. Right? About 13 years old. It is a relatively young institution and it is normal to learn from others, so since we are learning from those who are the best, if such an opportunity is given to us and if there is openness on our part to learn, but together in relation to the relationship between the DRI, the National Assembly, the Finance Committee and the spending of budgets, we can make every day a greater result in the interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55406	I thank my colleague Marinkovic. My colleague Radeta, a colleague Marinkovic mentioned you during his presentation, you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55407	Thank you. A colleague has gone a little far from what's on the agenda today, but we don't have a problem with that, it's common knowledge that we Serbian radicals advocate that an MP can speak for unlimited time and not limit his subject, but there have been several interesting observations here. We don't mind our institutions looking up to these developed countries, but really looking up to each other. You know, in those countries of which you speak colleague, president of the state, Prime Minister, ministers and other public officials stand calmly in front of the state auditor, in front of the judges, in front of the Supreme Court judges, there should not and could not happen to the judges, because they are invited by someone from the executive or local authorities, to age them half of the cases that the State Auditor submits. So there's a big difference, and don't you ever caricate what I just said. We said with embassies, some embassies no one from Serbia should have any contact. We're asking a question a long time ago why this Kyle Scott is no longer declared a person of non grata in Serbia. Yesterday, when he was in Bujanovac, he went to Bujanovac, there to talk about the threat of minority rights of Albanians, schools, language, I don't know about anything. Well, is this Scott going to help Mr. Pejovic go ahead and do a serious audit in Bujanovac? It's hard, it's hard. Because he won't, not that he can't, but he won't. But I answered actually because of something quite third, which is to congratulate my colleague Marinkovic, he apparently and officially moved on to advances, because he called Vukic three times his president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55408	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55409	It is always a pleasure to have sex with my colleague Verica Radet and, of course, there is no dilemma, I guess we have all one PresidentSa of all 7.2 million citizens of the Republic of Serbia with whom, no matter what political party or ideology we belong, we can be proud of the results and what has been done on the agenda of politics, economy and modernization of our country in the previous period and the previous few years. Absolutely not that I don't have a problem with it, but I'm proud of it, and I say it and I speak it in public and here in Parliament. What is essential, not the US or UK ambassador, is a pragmatic approach to politics and international relations. I can accept, you know, as I respect your position to be directed differently towards other countries, it's your sovereign right and part of your ideology and your party's program, but I want to retain the right to my opinion that we must respect those who have several billion investments here in our country, which are employed by the United States somewhere around 17,000 people, all in high-tech and high-tech factories and companies that require highly qualified and highly-educated labour, which is, in any case, very important for our country to meet public policies, and that remains here our young people, especially those who are the best and most educated. So we just have to be partners and friends with everyone, and that's our thesis, and I'm showing results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55410	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55411	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Supreme Auditors, Your Honor, Mr. Pejovic, in front of the SNS, and we haven't talked enough today about exactly what the effects of this one report by the DRI are, precisely in numbers. In addition to the data we had had the opportunity to hear from my colleague from the Committee, Mr Vladimir Marinkovic, macroeconomic indicators in 2018 clearly go parallel to the DRI reports, as costs are being reduced, i.e. budget revenues are increasing, and in parallel with that, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia are actively working on continuing economic reforms, opening new factories. In these six years, we have practically come from that negative growth, i.e. the economic downturn of 2012 with a minus 3.1% of GDP growth we came to 4.4% for last year, and in this year the projection is very conservative to 3.5%, and we have had the opportunity to hear that this result is going to be much greater 3.7% of GDP growth. What's he saying? It says that our exports are growing, that our economy is growing, that new jobs are opening up, and that unemployment is already falling, it is already at 11.3% with a tendency to fall below 10%, which is actually a characteristic of the developed economy, and this data that foreign direct investment level is 3.3 billion euros, represents the total amount of all investments in the Western Balkans territory, i.e. the former SFRY state. This shows that Serbia is an economic boom and that the state that has established its competitiveness, because if it had no co-operation with the West, with Western countries, with the EU alone, there would not be any co-operation with the East. Therefore, Serbia is co-operating with both the east and the west, because it is in Serbia's interest, because such a president of the state is leading a policy that is exclusively in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and these results show that too. Exports increased by 10% compared to last year. What is important is that the IMF programme, which is solely a security character, is also concluded in the event that certain economic disorders occur, the IMF can react, but it is mostly now an advisory type, which means that we are completely out of recession, the surplus is still four years in a row. Credit activity, so in the first quarter of 2019 it shows that it was part of the so-called stake. The negative interest rate of the loan has dropped, and there is a steady inflation rate of 2%. When we talk about European integration, you noticed last year, and even now, most of the chapters that are related to finance are being opened. I will remind you that there was first Chapter 32, which represents external supervision involving the DRI, as well as a chapter relating to public procurement, but we also opened Chapter 33, meaning the budget of certain financial provisions of the EU budget, then, financial services - Chapter 9, then, Chapter 4. - movement of capital, 17 - economic and monetary policy, then, statistics - Chapter 18, in addition, we have the right of companies - 6, 29 - customs union and 20 are entrepreneurship and industrial policy. What does this tell us? This tells us that in parallel with what we say that standards are in accounting and audit, we're going to economic development, but there's nothing unless we say how much of your recommendations based on your report saved money. Those savings have to be said. In the past 10 years, it's been estimated that there's been a billion dinars a year, or 10 years, that it was 10 billion, but when you look at how much it's been done by you explaining your reports, especially financial, special business, and especially for purpose, then you see that you're making an even bigger space for savings. And here's how? Based on your report for the past year, the effects of the revision show that you have achieved on the basis of financial effects, means only financial reports about 733.72 million dinars and compliance with the rules of over 2.94 billion dinars, which has made a list of assets that have not been registered until then. What does that tell us? That means that the capital of the state itself increased by this much. So this is what I'm saying on purpose because of people who may not be following finance and who aren't interested in this topic. What does a report of such an important institution mean, what does it mean for the state? Secondly, when we say that the institution's recommendations are accepted by certain entities, they also make large revenues for the state, i.e. for large savings. So the cost savings themselves were for the last year 433,18 million dinars. Then, certain revenues have been increased, and you have brought them in such a way that they adapt to the reports in a way that should be properly recorded, a savings of 218.53 million, then, the benefits of the citizens themselves who, in addition to certain regulations, have been made 34.85 million dinars. In addition to these effects, the financial data totaling 482, 4 billion dinars in the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in the financial reports of 68 audit entities, are shown as objective according to certain classifications. This means, by introducing order, exactly what my colleague Marinkovic was saying, we are now making certain savings based on which you are, in fact, increasing the capital of the state's own assets and capital. Every year to find one, two, or as many billions of dinars, you are, in fact, increasing the value of the state itself, and thus that rating of the economy, and also the banking, are looking at you quite differently by those who want to work with you. This is what we want to talk about today, what are the effects of this institution's work and what are the effects of the political decisions that the SNS has set out to free the institution from doing their job freely since 2012, what they could not do until then. It gets better and better every year. Is it perfect? It's not perfect anywhere, but every year we show that we have results in raising the scales when it comes to standards, when it comes to economics, when it comes to finance. I think that this report really is the subject of debate today in parliament, should be supported by all political actors, because it shows an improvement in Serbia, and therefore, in that part, we do not need to share politically. In voting day, SNS MPs will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55412	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Since no one is answering from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55413	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected presence, role and purpose of the existence and operation of the DRI is the existence of an effective mechanism, supervision and control of budget spending at all levels. This is one of the proven mechanisms in the advanced world that in every country where it has been consistently and professionally established, has actually proved to be very important and very effective. The establishment of this mechanism and in our country's system, in fact, represents a very important step and should not be disputedly supported by the development of this institution and its efficiency. Of course, what we have had so far since we've been tracking this institution's work can be recorded as a starting line in the movement of its development. However, since it is a very important institution because it deals with very delicate work, it is necessary to be very careful and, in fact, to pay attention to possible problems and possible shortcomings. In fact, if we analyse any problem of recession in the state system, one of the key reasons for staying in the economy and society, or in the recession, is the accidental spending of budget funds. That mechanism, that system, that state, that government that manages to deal with this problem, will certainly make the political struggle to face all other problems much easier. Unintended spending of budget funds is one of the biggest challenges, and also one of the biggest problems. At various levels of the state, my experience is higher at local level, you will often hear when citizens submit a request or when an initiative is launched to invest or solve a problem - there is no money. It is usually an effective response to reject requests. However, the state cannot have money at any level. The state that normally works, collects taxes and makes its regular incomes always has money, is just a question of who hosts the country, as well as who hosts a particular family, a particular house. In a system, a family or state, where it works maximum, spends rationally and stops stealing, that system can never be in trouble with money in both the micro and the macro plan. Therefore, the municipality, the city, the state, always have money if fraud is prevented, that is, to prevent accidental spending of funds. What we've had since repairing the state system in the last few years has actually been achieved this way. Reduce budget abuses. You have received funds, and in fact this government has achieved very significant results in recent years, and then these funds, as you know, have been used to build large investment projects, such as roads, highways, infrastructures and other investments. What is my desire to draw attention to both this Assembly and the Government and the DRI is a matter of efficiency in the process of the report, i.e. the process of misusing budget spending. We have several cases at the local level where I live, where we've had very negative reports of the audit and even the beginning of the trial both towards the prosecution and the judiciary, but never an epilogue or any insignificant epilogue. That's the second part of the story to put an accent on, because only then will we have what is achieved at the government level to achieve at the level of local administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55414	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the public and ask the authorities of the state to do everything possible to prevent the bee from killing. In the last four years, 226 million bees have been cornered. In just one day, on May 23rd, if I'm not mistaken, 1,680 bee hives were destroyed in a settlement in Kikinda. The consequences are catastrophic for the ecosystem. The consequences are catastrophic for agricultural production, as agricultural production is reduced by 400 euros per hive of bees as a pollinator. The consequences are catastrophic for the health of farmers, as well as for the health of consumers who use food with pesticide residues. Second of all, we're listening to the controversy of who's the biggest investor. The biggest investor is our diaspora. How many years does our diaspora give funds to Serbian citizens? What did we thank them for, and how do we thank them? By taking away their only house, diaspora house, and giving in to the Commission, or, as it is called, the Committee for China and Russia. After that, the biggest investors are our grandchildren and great-grandsons if they stay to live in Serbia and pay off these loans. Twelve-seven billion dinars or one in six dinars of the budget are incorrectly or unintendedly spent, less than 10% of it, they say. Twenty billion unintendedly spent funds are about one half of the agrarian budget intended for subsidies and incentives. Can you imagine if these funds that were accidentally spent on agriculture, and we, for example, were to allocate only 15 million dinars or one-sixth of what we donated to rebuild the church or Notre Dame cathedral in Paris this year? Six times more to rebuild Notre Dame in Paris than to drill wells in Serbia? What about the surplus income above the adopted annual budget? At the end of each year, we adopt the budget for next year. Since there have been no rebalances for many years, and we say that we have achieved a surplus in the budget, how have the funds been spent? Based on what? Who decides? Why don't we have a year's worth of final accounts? You're criticizing the former regime, and at least by 2008, he's had a final account review, four last years haven't, and you've continued their practice since the last four years. How much of the neutrino resources are planned in 2018 and by which divisions? I watched the final report, the report for the fourth quarter of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Eight hundred million dinars are neutral, and most of them in the position of the water industry, and now we complain about the consequences of the flood that there was no means to make microaccumulations in the mountainous and mountainous area. We have two public delusions. First, the planned budget that doesn't come true, so we show that we've fictitiously only provided the funds, and we've spent less. Is it also how much more spent funds from the budget reserve than was planned for 2018? Who can answer those questions? Also, I ask the proposer of this agenda, the assembly majority – why is there no debate on the final account? We ask each association of citizens with three members to file a final account and to be considered either immediately before the surrender of the APR, and we at the National Assembly, where over 1,200 billion dinars are spent, do not have a final debate on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55416	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55417	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought I only spoke in the end. Budget is a plan of income and expenditure. The auditors need to control the expenses. I don't mind being controlled by them and bees, but it's not in their job description, but it's about the previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with regard to those on whose list he was elected, were encouraged in agriculture between 120m and 180m euros. In doing so, the debt was 15.2 billion, which was left behind. They didn't pay for it either. That's when it was quiet. Today, when the incentives are 350m euros, 43 billion from 19 billion in 2012, with the same rate of 117 dinars, today you have more than twice as much. You've got a real moaning, tears. It's very touching how few subsidies are. It's not true, they're twice as big. Speaking of bees, and Mr Miletic will speak behind me, so I will save time, during their government, when the worst agreement on agriculture was signed, the worst part of the SAA, signed in 2008, was then silent. So then there were zero dinars for bees, and now 720 dinars stand out on the hive, and hopefully that amount will be far higher and it's just that the viewers know hundreds and hundreds of millions of dinars that we single out for bees, and they're not. In the end, we heard from the same speaker earlier that it was the flowers of sunflowers for the treatment of seeds. Since the sunflower doesn't bloom in May, it hasn't blossomed yet, and now we have some other dilemma, to honor the bees, I'm sorry that there's been a death, it's something to look after, first of all, farmers, and not auditors, I have to present these data and say that the auditors are doing what they didn't do before, that I had the honor of meeting the director of the audit or president who did the only one in a baptized way in the Indji municipality in 2013, which resulted in seven criminal and four criminal charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55418	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55419	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, is indeed the revision of one of the most important and important institutions that we need to have and have as mechanisms for protecting what makes public good, when it comes to finance and that is something that is extremely important. Especially important is the segment that the auditor was talking about today, which is this independence of work which, for example, in previous periods was not very transparent and public, especially when it comes to some local problems, local communities, urban municipalities, etc. So it's really important that today and these years with this composition of DRI we have this awareness of independence. As an example, I will list the municipality from which I come, or the city of Novi Pazar, back in 2011 the then government passed a report on budget abuses for 2000, 2008 when the government committed Mr Ugljanin with its team, where it was found that more than 20m euros were then lost by unintended budget spending. But no one took it or considered it seriously at the time, because literally during that period, Mr. Ugljanin was part of the republican government. So I say that for those of us who come from smaller backgrounds it is extremely important that we have an independent institution that, as in the previous period, we have heard, has repeatedly identified irregularities, regardless of who is now in the local government, will also point to these problems. So I refer to it as a sacred example of this composition of the audit institution. Of course, I also call for a little more attention from this institution to be placed on other municipalities. Let's just say, we've had a lot of evidence lately about the malfeasance of public procurement of budget funds in the Tutin Municipality. I have talked here several times about abuses and machinations when it comes to the water supply, so, construction of the water pipeline in Tutin, where several times already the funds are allocated from the budget, and these funds go non-refundable in different ways, and citizens still do not have water. Or, for example, the construction of a famous shadow house in Sjenica, where several times millions of funds are allocated from the local budget, and that house is not yet completed and, in fact, in all these construction budgets, it cannot cost half a million euros, let alone a few million euros, as today and then the president of the Ugljanin's party honours and literally so boasts to his committees when it comes to the budget as his own satisfaction. The same way, therefore, when it comes to this problem in Tutin. That's why it's very important to focus on these local communities, where we have so-called "special attention". The local sheriffs, who use budget funds, in fact, in such a way as to satisfy themselves and their closest associates, and what are citizens' problems and why these funds are actually being allocated, and we all remain in the problem, let's say, as in Tutina today in the late 21st century, people do not have drinking water, and yet I repeat, from foreign investments, from the republican budget, from the local budget, a lot of times the money has been allocated to make water for the citizens of Tutina. That is why it is very important that you really continue in this direction and do all these things to the end, especially to have in mind those places that are sensitive and where this is then presented as an unfavorable relationship between the ruling party of the majority people and the minority peoples, and it is essentially about local sheriffs who abuse both the republican budgets and local budgets and some so-called. The patriotic robbery degrades the standard and endangers the lives of ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55420	I thank my colleague Fehratovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Comrade Miletic, the remaining time of your parliamentary group is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55421	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the DRI Council, the Honorable President of the Council, Mr Pejovic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I was elected from the list of Alexander Vukic and I represent the United Peasants' Party. By the way, I was also responsible for the budget of the Municipality of Srljig, where you, as an institution, controlled it as a responsible person and all of us who were in certain functions should respect what you are doing. You work in the interest of all citizens of our Serbia. You do all you need to do that those who do, who get trust and get responsibility from the people that they have to work responsibly, in accordance with the law, and you do it the best way. Otherwise, as we heard earlier, DRI was formed in 2006. Back in 2012 or so, you and your colleagues started to work much more seriously, because the goal of all of us who are now here is to do what is right, in accordance with the law, with the rules laid down by the law, in accordance with all that is for the benefit of all the citizens of our country of Serbia. Otherwise, all of us who are here, and you, too, want to do what's best for all our people who live in small areas, to provide through savings, through public procurement, which you control, firstly, your associates and your colleagues when you control budgets, you have certain directions, you give suggestions, you make remarks, you do advisory, normally, you do what you see someone not doing the right thing, you break the law, then you act by the law. Your work, your background check, and everything you do, you deliver to the departments in charge, to the D.A., and normally, everyone for their hard work, or anyone who's done bad work, and it's done it with the goal of enriching themselves, to provide funds for themselves, for those next to themselves or for someone else, those people have to answer. I think you're doing a great job with what you're doing. Otherwise, we had a joint session of the Finance Committee with counterpart Tomic, who led it. There were Marijan Risticevic, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Mr. Bogatinović and I, where we discussed at these joint sessions all the necessary things that are important for our agriculture, where we must use all the positive things, your suggestions, and it is necessary, let's say, for local self-government to provide funds so that they can finance anti-urban protection tomorrow, to pay the shooters, to protect our fields, but to be in accordance with the law, in accordance with the rules of service, according to the law. The joint session showed, you gave, we gave you some suggestions, you put those suggestions on paper, and I'm sure that in a period that comes we will provide even more quality laws, or regulations, where we will ensure a safer application of all that is necessary, and all for the sake of our agriculture, our villages and our countries of Serbia. Normally, we are witnessing that in small areas responsibility is on the presidents of municipalities, the directors of enterprises, but we are witnessing that because of the lack of employment opportunities of people, a large number of small municipalities, say, like the Municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, and small municipalities do not, in particular, have a budget auditor, we do not have certain staff to help people who are leading municipalities to do so in the best way tomorrow. But, with your support, with you, with people working in Nis, in Zajecar, your colleagues, together all, along with your suggestion, well-intentioned, but normally, you do it in a way that tomorrow when someone's wrong, that someone's answering right now, we go ahead, we go to better, we protect the budgets, we protect everything that's needed, and for all of that, we get the funds. These are parameters that are visible, new jobs, new paths and all that matters to all of us. I'll support your report, because I think you're doing the right thing, and I think we all have to be responsible for all needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55422	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55423	Dear Vice President Milicevic, Mr. Dri, Mr. Pejovic and his associates, the honourable MPs, I would like to ask, Mr. Vice President, for the Vice President to allow me to speak. It is very important that today the National Assembly is considering the DRI Report after many years. It is an independent institution that, of all other independent institutions in our country, according to my assessment, works best, has the best co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and with its committees. The state audit institution has achieved, as we and the Committee have found, a major impact on users, and this can be found to be much better than it was before, both in the behaviour and relationship of users to DRI, according to the spending of public funds, but also, based on the savings provided in the Report DRI. That was said by the esteemed chairman of the Finance Committee, Aleksandra Tomic. I have no particular reason to talk about it. Dear President DRI, your institution in its report, has today established and identified many irregularities, shortcomings, weaknesses, some illegality and one part of the abuse. That is what she pointed to, I must say, and the European Commission, and in particular, there is no Mrs Filipovski, our GOPAK who operates within the National Assembly. I express my great pleasure, since I have followed the regular reports of the DRI and this one now, I have participated in all the meetings of the Finance Committee, which we can conclude that the situation is much better, more favourable than it has been, and that by the influence of the DRI. I also express satisfaction with DRI's attitude towards users. In this cooperation, these weaknesses have been removed by agreement, respect, respect, etc. All of this provides the basis for today's session of the National Assembly to establish the need, first of all, I personally think that we should accept the report of the DRI and, more importantly, accept the conclusion and initiatives of the Finance Committee. Also, I think we should stress this need to pass a number of laws and make a number of laws, regulations and regulations. By adopting the report of the DRI, as well as the conclusions of the Finance Committee, the National Assembly takes great responsibility. I'd like to keep that in mind. First of all, to implement this conclusion and these initiatives that we have put on the Committee, together with the Committee on Agriculture, together with the DRI. This responsibility is reflected in the fact that, as I would say, we are in charge of the Government and we are obliged to the Government, I am in this account and the ministries, primarily referring to the Government, to take appropriate steps in the shortest possible time, in particular to prepare changes and supplement more laws, even personally I think of the DRI Act, as an initiative and the DRI and our National Assembly, to bring more, we have also found in sessions, several regulations and regulations. First of all, I think it is very good and important that the ministries, or government in general, introduce more control over users and institutions. There are great weaknesses and shortcomings. In this regard, he also takes responsibility to regularly inform the National Assembly about this as a final conclusion. In the end, I must commend the DRI for this work and the relationship it has shown and, in particular, the Finance Committee, which has worked over the last few days. Due to the facts presented by Mr Pejovic in parliament in connection with the report, due to the presentation of Aleksandra Tomic, the chairman of the Committee, our PUPS parliamentary group will vote for this report and especially for the conclusion proposed by the Committee on Finance to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55424	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected representatives of the DRI, I would like to remind you on behalf of the SRS that the MPs of the SRS with a number of MPs from the SNS were still in 2004, 2005 and 2006 insisting and I can tell you that we asked to be determined, since the DRI Act was passed, where this institution resides, where it is based, whether there is a stamp, how many employees it has. I came directly ahead of the SRS parliamentary group to the National Assembly and the National Assembly attic, upstairs I found four employees who presented themselves to me as DRI representatives in one cabinet. Among them were Mr. Sretenovic and three ladies. When I learned about it, I presented this information in the MP group, but at the same time we asked for a report to be delivered to the National Assembly on the systematization of jobs. We barely managed to stir up some drawers of the then government, so the yellow company, and we found out that the DRI had in time passed the rule, so that the Assembly would adopt. However, when we asked the question - when it will be delivered to the agenda, we were promised to put it on the agenda, and after a while, several months, it was put on the agenda of the DRI systematization rule, to find out afterwards that these four DRI representatives had been moved to subunits, to the Bristol Hotel, in some unconditional room below. After that, since the DRI systematization Regulation was adopted, since then, we have always been interested in and asked for information on whether DRI is doing its job and whether it is being carried out in accordance with the law? I can say that we, the Serbian radicals, at the time encountered understanding and good co-operation with Mr. Sretenovic and his associates. We then pointed out that there were few state auditors and few employees. You know what you represent in that DRI? You represent one formation department, and you have one army and one Corps. Now, you see how many you have in one army of members and how many in one division? In that department you have 10 members or a platoon of 30 members. Now there's a delicate question, as Ante Fijamengo said -- is it possible, is it a question of discussion, can you deal with that kind of army of criminals in this country? According to what you said in the report, it's disturbing. You said that, by doing your controls, you found 270 billion dinars of value that were inflicted on abuse and irregular work. Secondly, you say you have no instruments to monitor the work of other state authorities. Tell me, and how do you think you're doing your duty, if you don't have the opportunity to see what the results of the 2,165 criminal charges have been filed and what is the result of the 263 criminal charges filed? Ladies and gentlemen, the report is missing what happened to those 1,043 misdemeanor reports that weren't taken into the procedure? There's a question of the public, a question is asked to the prosecutor, a question is asked to the judge and his president -- as far as possible, whether people who allow themselves the luxury of seeking an independent judiciary, here's a picture of an independent judiciary, here it is. You know what happens if constitutional amendments of the Venice Commission are adopted? Crime in crime. A crime of deep-rooted justice. How is it that this does not reveal the result, which the judge had in the case, namely, the courts, prosecutors and judges? How many process actions did he take in this individual case? Why is there an obsolescence? Who's going to answer and who's going to make up for the damage? That's what you're going through. You don't dare ask a question. Individually - criminal charges have been filed for both the amount, the irregularity and that, the abuse of the official position, and that, no criminal or criminal application has been taken into consideration. By law, it is a court of law, and a public prosecutor is also required if he rejects you of criminal charges, to bring a solution, to which you have an objection. It doesn't go into practice and you don't use that instrument. You can't even use yourself because the D.A. doesn't provide you with a solution you've been objecting to for eight days. The question of the qualification of the work is raised. I'm not sure you're giving the right qualification. I do not think of you, but of the legislator, as he provided for the qualification of the crime and the qualification of the offence, the incrimination, that this amount is necessary to carry out an investigation, that a certain penalty is imposed on the criminal offence in that and that amount. And what's going to happen? Our criminal law can't be applied the way you do business. And you can't according to Criminal Law, item 1, incrimination of the piece, which predicts, value, item 2, to which values, millions and 400, over a million and 400 fines are foreseen... How can it also be possible in a legal state to file criminal charges against millions of people, money laundering or abuse and embezzlement? And you've got that poor guy who stole three sausages or a bike, he's supposed to have a prison sentence from one year to three years in prison. How is that possible? I'm very happy that you have a team, but your team is small. Secondly, you have to fight for independence, you have to fight to amend the rules, you have to comply with the Criminal Code, the Criminal Law, with the other regulations that are in your area, because you have a good intention of carrying out an internal audit. When it comes to these audits, you have to keep an eye on them. I am concerned, and I have a big remark that you did not state in the report which, by name, the presidents of the municipalities and the mayors refused to cooperate. Secondly, which you did not state in your report: in this and that city, in that and that municipality we found the following irregularities, we found abuse of the official position of that, that and that, and above all the president of the municipalities and mayors, because criminal charges were filed against them. I completely doubt it by name, because there's no one here in the report, and they'd have to be here, on this list. Internal Affairs. You know what it's like? We're not a feudal society anymore. We're not even in that period, after World War I and World War II, when our administration was on the local, regional and republican level so many ignorant and so illiterate. We've got enough number and a lawyer. The Faculty of Law in Belgrade is a highly respected university in Europe. These people who work in internal control must be determined, gentlemen, who hairs, and who carries water, can't do without it. This is all the cobwebs we're making our own conclusions or reports. Without facts, no judge will accept your application unless there is evidence, and if there is evidence and that judge bypasses that evidence or twists and falsifies it, that judge makes an illegal decision, which is why he has to be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for DRI - what the DRI did for 24 illegal privatisations, so on. Robbery, but it's not just 24? If I were a justice minister, a radical, a Serb and a 40-year-old lawyer, and I had this on the agenda as a federal minister, gentlemen, here would have to find the name and name of the perpetrators of crimes and abuse and robbery for these 24 privatisations. First of all, let me remind you, if you didn't know, and I will now remind you, gentlemen, which are 24 privatizations, and there were 2,082 illegal in the period from 2000 to 2012. I can't accuse anyone but a yellow company that was burning and burning at the time, doing what they wanted to do, and now they know where they are and where they all infiltrated. You have “Sartid” first. You know how he was sold and that against Miroljub Labus, Bozidar Djelic and Aleksandr Vlahovic, a criminal case has been filed and that, above all, an investigation has been opened, but the investigation has been closed and the damage has been done. That's why 90% of the Yugoslav Army tanks were, above all, drowned and given to Americans to sell and draw money from Serbia. It's "Yugormedia" in Zrenjanin. What's the matter? It's a pity for the country, 7.5m euros. Do you know, gentlemen, that? Are you following? Do you want to watch what happened since 2000? If not you, what's the Privatisation Agency doing? What's the D.A.'s office doing? What's the court of law doing? "Mobtel", also one company that has really made millions in illegal ways. You have, gentlemen, Evening News. What about them? You probably don't read "Evening News" or you haven't read it, and I believe you've read it back then and you're reading it now. You know, gentlemen of the DRI, you know this well, but someone won't let you just bring this to an end and give a court ruling. Then, “Luka Dunav. ” What was in there? What irregularities have been identified? Tens and tens of millions. ‘National savings bank’. What about National Savings, gentlemen? Do you have any idea what serious millions of euro damage has been done and done to the National Savings Authority? ‘Veterinary office’, privatisation of ‘Zekstra’. Ladies and gentlemen, this could never happen in Bangladesh or today, but in Serbia this is happening. "Gallenika", I will finish. Galenika has damaged 34m euros. What does the Anti-Corruption and Crime Agency do to us? What's the Privatisation Agency doing to us? What do business courts do to us? What do special courts do to us, special prosecutors? In Europe, there are not as many special courts, special prosecutors and special authorities as we have, and what's the result? I'm just going to say, I'm sorry, a few cases: "Technochemia", "Shinoz", "Keramika Kanjiza". Now I'd like to tell you, this was part of this anatomical robbery of the century, which was experienced by Serbia. You have a publishing company called Education Belgrade. The buyer Media not only failed to carry out the contractual obligations, but also sold, bought, sold, and kept the money for himself. The “Ggrand Trubnik” is written here, but should be “Builder of Construction”. The company "Monter", which is the Zumbul, which is also one of those who loved money more than anyone. It was owned by Dragan Kopcalic, formerly president of the Belgrade DS Committee. You see how those from the publishing company "Prosveda Belgrade" lost their jobs. Then, the concession that was the contract for the Horgos-Požega highway. Exports of sugar, 10,000 droppers imported from abroad at cheap sugar prices to export it at higher prices, but at higher prices they exported our sugar because we had it because we needed imports. Someone would end up hanging me who allowed it to happen to sell sugar for one euro. In a country, someone would have been hanged if he'd done something like that. However, this was again in the period 2001 to 2003. It wasn't during the government of the current regime. You see, there's a huge amount of damage to our economy, our sugars. Gentlemen of the SNS, it will take you 20 years to remove the consequences of yellow politics because they have done so much damage to this country. In 20 years, we can't eliminate these consequences. I repeat, 2,080 companies have privatised since 2000. Where's the money? Milosevic only sold 59% of Telecom and no company, and they sold everything they could. When it comes to another public enterprise, which is Azotara Panchevo, I am sorry, but I have to take advantage of the time, I have to do it on behalf of those citizens, 3,000 Pancheva Azotare workers who have lost their jobs. You know why they ran out of work? They lost their jobs due to corruption and crime from the yellow company. Imagine, Azotara was sold for 13m and 100,000 euros in 2006. The new Karbamid 2 factory was among the most modern in Europe for the production of this species, for the purposes of Azotare. In 2007, the company was disarmed, "Carbamid 2", and sold for 32m euros in Ukraine, and its real value was 45m euros in bookkeeping. What can you do? The then management of the yellow company buys wheat, in fact borrows wheat, 20 thousand tonnes of borrowed wheat, 12 dinars each, so they sell that wheat later for 8.5 dinars, but remain in debt to producers, farmers in total of 20m euros. The Victoria Group has been installed there and in this way, I can tell you, there are 3,000 workers left without a job and count on three family members, that's about 6,000. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something else I'd like to say, but for the limited time limit, I apologize to you. I'd just like to remind the president of the DRI, since he was talking about pharmacies. Mr. President, Pancheva Pharmacy has been robbed by a billion and 30 million dinars, and for that period since the needs and obligations to pay interest are still 400 million. So somewhere around a billion and 500 million dinars. I'm asking a question-- do you know if anyone's in jail? That's what I'm asking the DA and the court. Is there anyone against whom a criminal report has been filed? There isn't. Imagine DOS brought in from Cačka as director of Pančeva pharmacy, and in Pančev you have 700 doctors and pharmacists. No one from Panchev can be. Then comes the DOS example again, from Užica comes a lady, stands up as the director of the pharmacy. She's finishing this robbery and she's rounding up now, it's going to be a billion and five hundred million dinars. What's the mayor doing? Have you audited? Have you determined whether the mayor has put on the agenda to discuss the report on the pharmacy's final account, or not? And you know how many workers are out of work? Therefore, gentlemen, I've had to do even this tone, but because of the shortness of time and numerous currentities and numerous examples that are negative in our country, and that you have to do a yellow company, because the procedures are in motion during the yellow ones, but no one is doing anything. No one's doing anything, but the current judges and prosecutors who chose them, so they're not exactly handling this right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55426	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Dr Dusko Pejović, chairman of the DRI Council, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55427	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't mean to answer, but I had to because several times DRI and her work were questioned why it wasn't this, or why it wasn't that. Appreciateing the years of experience of the honourable MP, I would first give the answer that most of these questions are not for us. Appreciateing everything you said and respecting what you said, but most of those questions don't apply to the DRI, because it's not in charge of what you were talking about. That's what the theory in practice is called an expectation gap. So here the DRI is expected to be more than just what it is, to do more what it's responsible for, to do whatever comes to mind, and that it's part of some of its activities that she can do it. He can't do it. Nothing more than jurisdiction. So our job is to audit. I'm afraid maybe we haven't mastered what it means to audit, and what it means to conduct an investigation, and that it's not the same thing, it's the other way around. It's very different. You know, to carry out an audit does not mean to carry out an inspection, but to conduct an examination of documents, accounts, invoices, contracts, etc., with the aim of obtaining as much relevant evidence as possible to give an opinion on whether the entity correctly, truthfully and objectively demonstrates its situation, and the results of its operations, in accordance with international accounting standards and regulations adopted for that purpose. And you can see that from this, it has nothing to do with the investigation. Secondly, in the revision of regularity, we determine whether the revenues and receipts, expenditures and expenditures that have been incurred, and the expenditures and expenditures made, have they been made in the manner or decisions and activities in accordance with the applicable rules for the intended purposes, and in the sense of whether those three are achieved. This is our job. That's the first thing. Secondly, we're not investigating, nor are we doing it. The next thing I want to say, we are the only state audit institution in Europe, and I think still, I'm only sure of Europe, which submits applications. No top audit institution in Europe submits applications. (National MP Petar Jojic throws out of place. No, I can't say that either, whether there is or not, but I want to tell you for the sake of the truth. So we carry out that obligation as properly as we can and do it. You wouldn't even know about 129 applications if it was out of date if we hadn't told you. Now I'm still finding myself guilty of what the judge did. So, I think we've broken that relationship a little bit. It's enough from the state auditor to get proper, true, objective information, and then the other authorities should go into a second procedure and beyond our jurisdiction to continue their work. What Ambassador Jovanovic pointed out, each of these outdated applications should be analysed individually and determined what happened, that is one thing. Secondly, we never write in our report the name of a natural individual, a person, those are the rules, because the goal is not to say that it's a name and a name, but that there's been some phenomenon. We are talking about appearances, and individual reports, honourable MPs, contain in themselves descriptions that the mayor, that the president, that he is the head of the administration, that he is the head of the department, etc. I did it and I did it. Not speaking of his name, but speaking of the function of a responsible person, in an individual report. We're also talking about the institution's work here. We talk about phenomena and indicate in which direction the phenomena are determined and how this can be done. Next, we're in the audit gathering evidence and they're so-called. audit evidence, but at the same time we struggle to strengthen these evidence, increase both by quantity and by quality or relevance, because they can also be court evidence tomorrow. We also have witness obligations. So we have a series of activities based on that and everything that we do. Therefore, I look forward to any presentation that supports the DRI to continue in a true and objective manner publicly in the Assembly and Parliament, and at first I have shown, I am grateful that you have allowed a public debate in which we can speak in front of the citizens about our independence, which speaks of your willingness to hear all the information that we have established in the audit process and that this job is not in vain, but that this job that has come upon a truly adequate acceptance first from the committee that is in charge, and then we see that it is also in Parliament. More for the pharmacy. We audited the pharmacy three years ago. Pančeva pharmacy is one of the subjects, as well as other pharmacies that have proved to be one phenomenon that is very negative. Negative in the sense that outside of knowledge, knowledge of local authorities' leadership, they've made commitments and thus accumulated enormous commitments. When obligations have occurred in large amounts, for example, with circumstances I have ahead of me, a review of health institutions whose sub-accounts are blocked on June 17th, on yesterday – a total of 3,206,829.000,37 dinars are blocked by a health institution. The pharmacy from Panchev is headed with an amount of 491,683,876,84 dinars, followed by Bor pharmacy with 439,243.000,00 where this one was in Pancheva, went to Bor and is there. Here, you see, given the circumstances, these two pharmacies are the largest in the blockade. (National MP Petar Jojic throws out of place. ) The investigation will establish a name, and we do not deal with investigations. Yeah, it's the same name and last name. Second, for example. The debts of the health homes at the mandatory charge of 562.163.000,00, while the debts of the pharmacy in the forced collection are 1,325,847.000,00 dinars. Obviously, the problem with health institutions is large and huge, which will be the basis for further discussion at the level of the authorities in charge. What we're in charge of is giving true and objective information based on clear evidence. This is a state-of-the-art review. Thank you. (Petar Jojic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55428	My colleague Jojic, I think you've got the answer to all the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55429	Mr. President, you're saying it's in the blockade of the panic pharmacy, and what are we going to do with those funds that aren't still in the blockade? Do you have a report on how sad it is, how many prosecutors have filed charges, do you know who's been sued? The city of Pancheva. Do you know if there was a discussion in the S purchase about these reports? How many objects are the municipalities? Is the city of Pancheva sad? They are not covered here, Mr. President, in my knowledge, I have asked a parliamentary question to the competent authority and I will receive, within the meaning of Article 204, the answers. I'll give you, Mr. President, within the meaning of clause 204. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I have the right to ask of you, since you came, how many misappropriations have been filed against whom, for what reason, to which authority? To deliver it to me, because you're under obligation, copies of which I'll find the name and last name of what caused the damage to the criminal charges. Compared to criminal charges, I'm also going to ask you for a complete file, so since you failed, for your understandable reasons, I'm not going to go into it, you didn't want to enter your name and last name into those reports, you're going to have to submit me with a name and a last name and a home number. I'll ask the D.A. and the courts to deliver a decision and a complete file. This is where I will refer him to all the MPs so that nothing can be hidden. You didn't understand me very well here. I know what your jurisdiction is. I haven't been in this business since yesterday and I'm a lawyer. I know what your obligation is, to exercise control and to determine the fact that you have no control over the use of budgets, the means of purpose, as to who manages these budgets, and that in that case you really do not have, apart from control, and to file reports. But my further observation is that you are not given the authority to qualify, not for one piece that has two, three million dinars of money laundering, to be, above all, less serious crime than the one who stole the bikes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55430	Thank you, colleague Jojic. I'm gonna have to interrupt...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55431	This all came from the time from 2000 to 2012 and there are reports and there are facts found, but as you can see, I didn't send a message to you alone, it's my wish that what you said, you know your jurisdiction, what your investigation, what your duty is, to audit as a state institution, but this is also a message for other state authorities that don't respect the law and don't enforce the law. It is difficult for you to implement the law because this law does not comply with the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of Infringements.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55432	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Dr Dusko Pejović, chairman of the DRI Council, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55433	I thank you for all the support I get and receive from the institution. As far as reporting is concerned, you, like any citizen, are free to access information of public importance and you will get everything that is legal. But I also wrote to you in the opening part and in the report that 262 infringements have been filed since I came, filed, 33 criminal charges have been filed and under the law we will answer the question that comes from you, but you must bear in mind whether or not you can interfere with the procedure that is under way. Keep that in mind, we're not answering anything now. As for the complaints about whether or not we know how many lawsuits there are for the drugstore Pancheva. You know, we can't know every day what more than 10,000 users have. We can't know that. The only thing we can know about is the audit process. When we review then we know of any information that is materially significant, and the number of complaints and disputes is certainly materially significant... (Petar Jojic: Tens and dozens.) ) Clearly. These are certainly high amounts, high values, and this is a good basis for us from this debate that perhaps we see one revision of the purpose that would talk about court disputes, forced collection, disputes in claims, obsolescence in claims and other relations and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55434	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55435	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President of the DRI Council, you are here as an institution always welcome to the National Assembly because it seems to me that my fellow MPs do not understand the role of DRI and that the National Assembly, with the help of the DRI, is overseeing the spending of public funds. That's it. If they knew that, they wouldn't talk, let's just say our diaspora is the largest investor in the Republic of Serbia. I am grateful to our diaspora because in the 1990s, when there were sanctions and bombings, they brought their money here and gave to their families and thus helped the whole country. I am grateful to them, and while they were doing the same thing by 2012, they have mitigated the consequences of a thieving government and a gang gathered around Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Djindjic, Boris Tadic, and such a hoax as Dragan Djilas, Šolak, Pajtic, the famous Miskovic. We'll talk about them soon, about the commission, about protecting the competition, and we'll touch how they've done it. I am grateful to our diaspora that this money has mitigated the consequences of a thief by 2012. I wish a colleague who said that our diaspora was the biggest investor, that it was, because that would mean that these people are going back to Serbia and that they're investing their money in some kind of production, some kind of favor, and they're going to stay here. Unfortunately, it's not like that. We are not asking them to give anything to Serbia and the state of Serbia, because we know how much every penny there is is not easy and how full of denial. That's why I'd like more colleagues not to use them in political calculation, especially because they don't know what they're talking about. So, let's get this straight. As I would like you to have the authority to review how funds for subsidies were spent in agriculture until 2012 and how we paid 200 euros a hectare of farmland to which no seeds were thrown, for some to write projects and of these projects to live well. Now we have no idea how they're fighting for diaspora, for farmers, for everyone else. The difference between us and them is between me and them, I have never been on the lists of those who ruined Serbia and stole the people, nor will I. And that speaks of them and their desires. If they knew they were reading the Republic of Serbia's budget, they would know how to allocate unscheduled funds. I guess on the revenue side of the Budget Act for next year, and it's also good to write, transferred and untapped funds from earlier years. But they need to read the Budget Law. If they read the laws, they'd know how to talk. But they deal with pulsism, and then they don't read. The easiest thing to do is tell the populist stories that people like to hear, promise them what can't be fulfilled, but they like to be heard, so they hope that someone will succeed in maybe cheating. This comes again from the ranks of those who ask when we will be doing the final accounts of the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget for some earlier years, and while they were in power to you from the State Auditing Institution did not allow you to come to the National Assembly and file reports on your work, that MPs and citizens of Serbia do not know how Tadic, Djilas and the rest of the money is being spent. Imagine, our State Auditing Institution is still one of the few things, which is that it can control all levels of government, by the republican authorities, by the regional authorities and local authorities. Imagine if you were doing a business audit at that time, that is, budgeting for the city of Belgrade, here I guarantee you, you should not think that this report should be forwarded to the MPs and you should see how Gilas robbed the citizens of Belgrade while building a bridge that I say is beautiful, Belgrade deserves a nice bridge, but I don't know its purpose and justification because it has not cleared the city and traffic in the city. Comrade Radeta, please don't disturb me, I'm talking to the President of the Council. Oh, where are you, Arsic? I'm going to Stargazer's. We've got a standoff for public execution. Don't disturb me, I'm talking to the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55436	Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55437	You should never have thought of that, your predecessor, Sretenovic, too. Or imagine that you went to audit the final account of the AP Vojvodina and you would see, discover and inform the MPs that they spent the money, over 100 million dinars, to buy the most common shed that didn't just collapse, and allegedly for children distracted by development. Say, you couldn't do that. I'll wait. I'm well-mannered. I'm ready to be late for the stands. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55438	Go on, fellow Arsic. Please, just be quiet. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55439	I was well-trained, when my colleagues spoke, I didn't throw away. I'll wait for them to finish their discussion. I don't expect it to be a pain in the ass, but MPs can talk, but they can't behave the way they don't like it. Let's get back to the discussion. It was not possible to carry out these audits, and if possible, it was not possible to conduct a discussion in the National Assembly and that citizens knew about the results of the State Auditing Institution. Since the establishment of the State Auditing Institution until 2012 it has been constantly questioned by its way of functioning in that basic form, which will be the work space of the State Audit Institutions and in every way has been obstructed that it has the capacity to carry out audit operations, and even so it has been assumed that no applications have been submitted but that the National Assembly has been informed of certain things that are banal and with which the regime then wanted to mock and humiliate the State Auditing Institution. Remember those logs for the kebabs. Let's not talk about it. There was that, too. If that was the purpose, not the billions of dinars at the disposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then I have nothing more to say. The National Assembly is a guardian of the independence of the State Auditing Institution. In general, the policy and government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and the MPs who support the government, is that the State Auditory Institution is working in its full capacity, because you are helping with your audits to achieve those goals that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set before it and which the candidates, then the prime ministers, and the current prime ministers here have read in their exposé. However, just as a system cannot be perfect until the end and it is constantly looking in line with life to adapt and change to improve and respond to some of its challenges and to be able to achieve its primary function, I would like to do so in a legislative sense. Let's just say, there's been a lot of talk here about what if you run into an irregularity, so does that money come back, etc. You said yourself, you have no authority, you realize that. But there should be co-operation with other state authorities that can do so, for example, with administrative inspection or budgetary inspection, especially when the presidents of local self-government, come on, the presidents of the municipalities kind of like to build these coefficients or employees, etc., so they just stop or act crazy like nothing happened. It's already a job for a budget inspection or a management inspector, he can do it. The National Assembly keeps talking about the independence and independence of judicial officials. Here, at no point do I intend to endanger their independence and independence. What I'd like, I don't know if it's possible, I don't think it's possible, I'd like to get names and last names of the judges for the violations they've been conducting that's out of date. It's not a violation of the independence and independence of legal holders, but to read his name and last name, that citizens know they have someone who's lazy as judge, and it's possible he's corrupt and he's not acting, so I guess he's going to respond to that pressure and he's going to react to the High Council of the Judiciary. Also, prosecutors, here, another branch, now they consider themselves independent, independent, here goes constitutional amendments, and in the system of executive authorities, why not and that we know their names, why the prosecutor doesn't act. Why isn't he acting on criminal charges? Either let him initiate the procedure, or let him give up, or what's most of the cases, I have to say, I don't know, because he doesn't really know? But it's not our problem, it's his problem, because he's accepted something if he doesn't know it. It is also not a violation of his independence and independence, which has led to an outdated, absolute statute of limitations, some crime that he has collected and was obliged to bring to trial before the competent courts. It's not a violation of their independence and independence, it's the sole result of their ignorance, their incompetence, and as I said possible corruption. Well, maybe the U.S. Attorney General, the republican public prosecutor, will respond and finally finish the practice. You know, the public in the work of the National Assembly is exactly the one who, regardless of their degree and independence and independence, pursues to deliver as many results as possible and better. There you will be in the National Assembly and always have an ally. I will not be immodest if I say that Serbia's DRI is one of the best in the region if not the best, since we have followed, especially in the earlier period, the way of the revision and how some countries are doing in the environment, I can say that even some of the countries that are members of the EU are in terms of the revision in the stone age compared to Serbia. What was funniest thing for me was that they were coming to hold our tweeting project, how to monitor the spending of public funds but well, that was their thing. Another suggestion is that public companies owned by local self-government, where the founder, in fact, is the local self-government when adopting their final account, must also have an external auditor's report when they adopt the account. I'm interested in what's going on with these external audits? If you find that the business that had this public company does not correspond to the findings and opinions of the external auditor and what are the possibilities that this external auditor can never do any external audits again, because it is doing more damage. First of all, he's doing damage because he cheated on the boards of local self-government, which shows that he agrees for money to write any report, which means that the public is not being spent in accordance with the law and the purpose they have. But as long as we have such external audits, we also make certain damage to that real sector, because such bad auditors prevent our private-owned companies from participating in debt securities, for example, in the Serbian stock market, because we need the opinion and findings of the auditors to broadcast debt charters from the value of the economic operator, today no one will buy those values, because they know that the opinion given by the auditor on the business of a company does not correspond to the actual state of play. Not to talk about what these are now all other consequences on the financial market in the drop in Serbia's capital price, which is our goal to get as cheap a capital as possible so that our economy has a bigger and bigger swing. Somehow, this revision is a little more than just reporting to the National Assembly, but it is already a multi-level discipline and I can say one means that we can use for more purposes, and that the results are very good for Serbia and for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55440	Thank you, colleague Arsic. She is a colleague of Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55441	You should have reacted because it was extremely incorrect, and you were obliged to do so in accordance with Articles 27 and 32 when also, Vice-President of the Assembly, and at that time spokeswoman Veroljub Arsic made some remarks about the behaviour of Radet's colleague. It was coming out of the hall, as all the MPs heard, said it was leaving, and thus informing you, as well as all the other MPs, the National Assembly session because it is also an authorised representative of the SRS because it is going to Staraar, to the SRS tribune, which starts at 18.00 hours against these perpetrators who tear the skin out to the people because, as you know, we are collecting a petition in all the cities of Serbia to put out the law on the perpetrators, and we believe that even at that summit tonight, which is due to begin, at which point Mrs Radete will speak both Aleksandar Seselj and Miljan Damjanovic and fellow young Trkulja, the people will support such an initiative. It was just inappropriate, and I believe you too, fellow Arsic, given the course of your exposure and everything you said to support one such initiative, which I would recommend to all of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55442	My colleague Jovanovic, with all due respect, I think that I reacted correctly, waited for Rade's colleague to come out and asked my colleague Arsic to continue the presentation. I have to ask you if you want the National Assembly to plead for the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. ) Dr Dusko Pejović, President of the DRI Council, has a representative of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55443	Dear Vice President, I really thank you for your spoken words of support for the operation of the DRI, both so far and from now on. I thank you in this way that the support of the National Assembly of the DRI gives strength and credibility in the sense that it strengthens both our role and our influence in the subjects, i.e. the users of public funds. In short, I'm just going to try to focus these two activities you've shown at the end of your presentation. As for the request to initiate criminal liability, or proceedings, we can come up with the names of those judges who conducted the procedure which fell into old age because we are party to the proceedings and we have all the information about it. Here, we've recorded, we'll try to get you exactly what we have on that basis. As far as criminal charges are concerned, we can't do it because we don't have information, because in criminal proceedings we're not party to the proceedings. Our information, our evidence report takes over the prosecution and we don't know who it was assigned to, and especially when it comes to court, we don't know which judge it was given to. Therefore, I think we will answer for the offence and I think it is the High Council of the Judiciary and the High Council of the Prosecutors who is following the work of the judge and the prosecutor and that he is the most measured to give the answer and the names of the persons who led the proceedings. That's for the first time. Secondly, I fully agree, and we are witnesses, to say every report in public enterprises, that our findings and findings as determined by the commercial external auditor are often completely opposite. So, very often they give a very favourable, convenient grade, and we give an assessment of how we determine on the basis of evidence. The problem is to control the quality of the work of an external commercial auditor performs a chamber and it would be good if the Chamber of Authorised Auditors were to start a dialogue on the quality of the work of commercial auditors tomorrow. What is very important to mention, we have also mentioned on the Committee, our audit in public enterprises is always double with commercial audits, and that year in this company which is subject to review, it is a matter of rationality of spending our audit capacities, so we have suggested that both with public enterprises, as with local authorities, it goes to the principle of granting consent. That's where we audit the public company so it doesn't carry out a commercial audit. No need, just pay the amount that's here now and we're talking about what kind of assessment it is. I think it would be very good if we could join that information that I said a few hours ago that no deadlines were set for the report, no deadlines for the adoption of the report, but only a deadline for the delivery of the report. Now, that's causing us a lot of interference in the revision of public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55444	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55445	What is a logical question at first came this report from the DRI and this is the first report in this assembly to consider the Assembly. The logical question is, what was the reason in the earlier period for reports that were regularly filed by the DRI to the parent board why it was not at the plenary debate? Why am I asking this question? For the simple reason that it has completely changed the way the ruling coalition thinks and behaves after talks with EU representatives. Don't you people realize it takes so long, even if an EU representative comes to introduce parliamentaryism in Serbia. These people have been zealously doing their job for the past three and a half years, reporting regularly. Those reports were never on the Assembly agenda. Now all of a sudden, that's good, but we also find it suspicious that after the lesson given by the EU representative, this came on the agenda. Not only this, but also other proposals from NGOs under the authority or control of the Assembly Committees, so does the Assembly. That's enough DRI here. Those problems that are very important and significant to me, and they are listed in their report, are contained in the following. Among other things, one of the main problems is public procurement. We, the Serbian Radicals, would already, as we would say, get involved as much as we explain to you that the Public Procurement Act is a good basis for manipulation that must be changed, must be specified, you are simply deafening our insistence. Now we see that here, when it comes to local government level, the biggest problems are in public procurement. Why? Because there's room for manipulation. This is where the DRI listed cases of a clear violation of the law, and you can imagine how this interspace is manipulated. Interspace is when you break one big purchase into more small ones. See these cases cited by the DRI, public procurement, the greatest irregularities concern the conclusion of the contract and the executive expenditure without the public procurement procedure being carried out. It is a percentage of 31.88%, and in order not to be relative, it is 580.39 million dinars without respecting the Public Procurement Act, breaking the Public Procurement Act. Secondly, the conclusion of contracts in which a breach of public procurement headeds of 287, 21 million dinars was committed by 15 entities and that is a percentage of 15, 77. The third is that it consists of these two more than 50%, the conclusion of a contract where in competitive documentation certain conditions for participation in public procurement procedures that are not logically related to the subject of procurement, it consists of 12.35%, that is over 50%. What else has to be done to decide to change, to correct the Public Procurement Act? It's more your vanity, because you based your election campaign on the Public Procurement Act in the past, claiming it was the end of crime and theft, citing examples of how earlier, or as you say, the former government, manipulated the procurement, and now you've opened the whole door for it. Secondly, what is very interesting, the DRI cited the problem of internal audit. The law allows several municipalities to conduct a joint internal audit, the law. The municipalities, or those who operate the municipalities, were not found to be associated with internal audits to this day. In the internal audit, three members are enough to facilitate the work that the DRI is doing. The responsible person in the internal audit has a completely different status. But no, how will you when you don't have enough expert personnel? How when you banned, you put a ban on hiring new professionals, so the DRI has a problem with the personnel, so much so that he has employees he can't make it. Since there is no internal audit, then that's a squared problem, as they would say. It's got to be solved, it's huge funds for citizens who are out of control. These are cases where the DRI has been in control. Thirdly, when it comes to subsidies, how many times do we convince ourselves here with individual colleagues, you can't grant subsidies without control. This is where DRI cited concrete examples. These are examples of the city of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Sudotica, Pancheva, the City Municipality of Grock. Imagine the absurdities that occurred, even public enterprises don't have a prepared plan to spend these subsidies, they don't know what they're going to do with these subsidies, and they're being transferred these subsidies. So, not by the grandmother, not by the uncles, but by any sympathy or antipathy, that's how these funds are given. What's very important, thank you, Mr. Arsic, is very important that the DRI has suggestions. Among other things, one of these series of proposals that needs to be considered and how seriously we consider it, is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which determines the heights of retirement and disability pensions. Corrections must be made. There are government ministries here that don't respect existing laws. Guys, what are we talking about here? We're talking about something that's irrefutable and something where stubbornness is seen. We have been receiving similar lists and reports for three and a half years, and most of us do not look to the contrary until the high representative comes and in English tells you what, in any case, you consider progress, and we consider it the opposite because you understand English, your mother tongue, Serbian you will not hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55446	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55447	Ladies and gentlemen, respected auditors, I think the picture that goes from the Serbian Parliament today speaks more than any of these discussions that are positive, and she says it is very important that co-operation between the Serbian and the DRI Assembly is very important. How important the Serbian Assembly is the DRI's number of people sitting here with us today, and how important it is to the DRI Assembly, you could hear it from almost any exposure, whether it's ruling or opposition. When the Serbian Parliament adopts laws, it actually lays down rules and makes norms about how society should behave. When it sets standards and makes rules, it requires its citizens to follow those rules and standards. It is perfectly normal for the Serbian Parliament itself and the institutions in its jurisdiction to comply with these rules at the level of the general state. The state audit institution is a key factor that contributes to the public institution, the Serbian Parliament and the Budget Committee having information. In other words, the State Audit Institute is a mechanism, tool, weapons of the Serbian public, the Serbian Assembly and the Budget Committee that funds belonging to all Serbian citizens should be spent transparently and, of course, in accordance with the law. In 2005, it wasn't long ago, the work of the State Auditing Institution was restored, ten, fifteen years ago. And not only did we not have a state audit institution for fifty years, we didn't have people thinking there was a mechanism to control the use of public funds. After 15 years, it is difficult when you have no inheritance, when you have no idea of establishing a complete system of functioning, and the State Auditing Institution, above all, thanks to people who have worked in different positions and who are not working today, but also to the support it receives from the Serbian Assembly, has shown significant results and it is not disputed that the State Auditing Institution today is one of the key audit institutions in this part of Europe and can be compared to the state institutions in Europe that last hundreds of years. 185 years ago, on July 26th 1844, the main control of the Serbian Principality was formed. 185 years ago, Serbia had some MPs who understood economic flows and were ready to accept things as they are. Of course, in history we have gone astray and today we have come where we are and we need to understand that the State Auditing Institution is a trend, it is a process, and this process inevitably shows that public finances in Serbia are different. In 2018, the State Audit Authority made 221 controls, 215 post reports. In fact, she brought 436 products and that's more than she ever did. She did it, and in 2019, we from the Budget Committee know, she did more. The number of 2,436 recommendations, of which 70% were accepted, speaks of the desire and those people who are controlled to change. The state audit institution here, they say, has an educational function. There is no educational, she has a supervisory function to do that to those who sin no longer do so. Perhaps we in Serbia sometimes, in the Serbian Parliament, are in need of a different look, to get there where we have drawn, unobstructed. You know, Serbia is a country that has been experiencing significant reforms for 15 years since 2014. 15 years ago, you didn't have a state audit institution, you didn't have a program budgeting, you didn't have a birth budgeting, you didn't have an internal audit, you didn't have accounting standards that were significant and European. Do you know what it is for an ordinary public servant, in a municipality, how much pressure it is, and he's been educated in the 1970s? I don't defend these people, the law has to be respected, but we need to understand that this is a process and we're not here to be just someone who punishes, warns. We're doing our job. Each of your applications is proof of how important it is to both the Serbian and the DRI Assembly. If the judiciary doesn't work, if the prosecution doesn't work, it's not a key thing, we do our part in the Serbian Parliament, the Budget Committee and the State Audit Office. Here he generally complains about things that when you look at essentially at the level of the general government's budget, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia and local budgets, are not significant figures. What we're seeing is a fundamental asset problem, and that's the main problem. When you say someone who's the subject of an audit has a property problem, then it's wrong if someone thinks that this problem is caused by it this year. For decades, institutions and public enterprises have lasted, for dozens of years, local administrations. Well, those local administrations didn't make a simple list of assets at the time. So this simple list that looks formal actually causes dozens of problems. They don't know they have property, so then they don't know what it's worth, so then you have all the problems that cause that kind of operation, but it's a process. Serbia is a country in which we are all on the same task – to reform it. We did not inherit Switzerland even in macroeconomic parameters. Since 2014, we've been trying to take her down and be a serious economic state. In a formal economic sense, we are also not Switzerland. We, people, are pioneers in restoring economic and any dignity to Serbia that we have lost there for some years because of some others. When the Serbian Parliament supports and respects and has such a debate on the DRI, it is a proof of the synergy that exists. There is undeniable co-operation between the Committee on Budgets and the DRI, and I would go too far if I said it was raised to almost the highest possible level. Always can do better, always more. We should never forget the co-operation we have with the Ministry of Finance, because we are not only here to read the report and tell who was wrong and who was wrong, but to bring in the future as a legal solution that will make no one in Serbia wrong, because when they are wrong, we should actually correct those mistakes. The Serbian Parliament, the finance ministry and the DRI are here for a joint job. It is certainly not necessary in this debate to abandon the non-governmental sector that provides great support, because Serbia in this business can be an example of countries in the Balkans, but it can learn a lot from countries where the DRI has been operating for hundreds of years and in which state auditors are almost key. They lead to a level of deity in the area of finance. I think that by your work, you have done one thing, each of you individually, to be trusted. It's very important in Serbia. I have not heard today in the debate, nor in the public of Serbia that someone has said that the state report of any kind, any kind, is not true or that we are contesting it. Perhaps cases can become obsolete in court, perhaps in the prosecution, which is also your obligation, which is not in line with good practice everywhere in the world and in Europe not to apply for any violations, but our vision and our mission is to make Serbia a better country in which spending public funds, which is our key role, looks exactly what Serbian citizens deserve, honestly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55448	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55449	Thank you, Chairman. You wrote in your report that DRI is the one who controls public funds, is independent and is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. So it's a tough job. It seems very difficult to me, especially when we take the words – state and more – audit institutions and more – institutions. What the DRI is doing must be hard work, responsible, and highly professional. You should probably be in front of a lot of people who work in the distribution and spending primarily on budgets and probably need to educationally go ahead and ahead of everything. It is not easy, especially since people are different and as far as finance is concerned, it is subject to various controls and the possibility of abuse. I'll point to a few things. I prefer to be practical, because I think it's best to understand and to give an accent on certain things and suggest something that you think should be done. Public procurement. It's a difficult area for everyone and for the review. This law has been done and adopted to prevent machinations, illegal procedures in spending funds. Furthermore, it is probably not necessary for fair public procurement laws, but it is good for both honest ones and for those who think they need to do machinations in public procurement. They have prescribed rules to be followed and then reduces the possibility of both abuse and machination. All assault on finance and theft goes to budget funds, on public property, because private people, mostly, don't give up their share. Everyone somehow feels the need, thinks that a thief, although not paying taxes, contributions, or reduces the base so as not to pay the full amount of commitments to the budget and contributions. So controlling and directing all of this is not easy, and I think that although it slows down the process itself, as soon as it slows down the public procurement process itself, it also slows down the speed of development. But when it's going the right way, it's all being put into a different plan. What matters most to me is that you wrote here and called the effects of the realization. I'll just have two notes, which are very important to me. It's a post-audit procedure. It's something where it's practically an extension of your work, with your engagement, and if those who were controlled have good intentions they'll turn to you for help, anyway, and that they get a habit of proper work. Some new laws have been passed. I'll mention only one, I think he's from my field, etc., and I'll mention him, it's the Public Property Act, where public property is allowed under official duty on objects that can't be traffic, where units of local self-government are registered as holders. I think it's a major shift and it's your contribution, one of the contributions to changing the laws and regulations that follow the laws. What has not been done, and where you recommend amending the regulations, or the law, I will again mention two, from there the fifteen that you have proposed. It's the law of defense against the city. A new law on defense against the city has been passed. I think he's a great law, that he's modernized, that there's automation in the defense of the city, that this automation results, even in this year it's shown. But as far as funding is concerned, there was always a problem with funding, primarily anti-urban shooters and buying anti-urban missiles, so the state gave part of the funds, part of the local self-government was giving without enough coverage in laws or sublaws. Personally, since anti-urban protection is something that has to have its own vertical, it can't be compared to the end, but it's like commanding in the military. You can't do it on your own and whatever you want. There must be a vertical. If there's a strict vertical, there must be a vertical in finance. I don't think any surrogates in funding are good at anything. Since the law here clearly defines who needs to finance anti-building protection, I don't think there should be a dilemma here. The second law you propose to change is the Budgetary System Act and that fiscal deficit. You know what, the fiscal deficit is something that limits the possibility of spending on a bar, or spending on budgets. But if some local self-government budgets are properly managed, if they are not in charge, if they do not have any debts not paid, if they do not have any credit, if they serve the users of the budget and have the resources, why limit it all by one act. If any budgets need to be limited, they need to be legally stated exactly what needs to be limited. That's why your proposal here, in your report, is to include in the fiscal deficit and the funds transferred, neutral assets transferred from earlier years. I would even say that the fiscal deficit should be included in the full amount, not just 10% of the funds transferred, the neutral assets from the past years. I think that in your proposal you should endure, because you're right, and that's one positive change and that's good for local self-government, and it's good for this country as well. I wouldn't be long, Mr. Pejovic, with your associates, I think you're on your way and I wish you good luck. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55450	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55451	I thank the chairman. President-in-Office of the DRI Council with fellow Members, honourable MPs, I will begin my discussion, my presentation in the following way. I remember well my teacher from those school college days, who taught us what is socially useful and what is socially useless work. I remembered that lesson for my whole life and throughout my entire working life, my career, I tried to make what I was doing socially useful and appreciated other people's work that was useful to society. Why did I start the show like this? I'll tell you somewhere in the course of exposure. Let's get in line. The DRI is the highest state body, as you yourself said in your report, the revision of public funds in the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has been authorised and tasked with controlling the implementation of all budgets. It is only permanent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it is responsible. It has an important role to play in strengthening public responsibility, and to the extent that the DRI will achieve that role depends on the quality of the relationship it creates with the environment. In this regard, the most important thing is cooperation with the National Assembly and with the public. The report you submitted to us for 2018 on the work of DRI shows that DRI fulfils its responsibilities and mission is also proof of the commitment and professionalism of DRI employees. Those are your words. At this point, I want to express my great satisfaction with all the work and results of the DRI. I am very pleased with your opening presentation, dear Doctor Dusko Pejovic and the explanations that you have given for the presentation of certain MPs. It was, I could tell, in moments and hard times, that the younger would say "tired" to listen to someone convince you to do things that are not your job and to get out of your power. I don't belong to those people who say you can steal a little, but a little, not much. He can't. That's why you're here. The state audit institution is one of the most important institutions in this society and it is certainly one of the most responsible that we achieve these successes on the economic plan. I'll return to your report. Most of the attention in your work report in 2018 attracted parts - second, third and fourth. The second part provides data on post-audit procedures and on audit reports. In Part 3, which contains data on the regulations that have been amended or adopted on the basis of the findings contained in the DRI reports and the measures taken in 2018, we see whether those amendments to the rules and laws, where we have participated ourselves, have produced certain results. And the fourth part, which contains recommendations for amending, i.e. the adoption of regulations, which would better regulate financial management and transparent use of public funds. Let's move on. According to Article 40. The law on audits, the entities in whose business irregularities have been detected which have not been removed during the course of the audit - are obliged to submit a report to the institution on the removal of detected irregularities, i.e. a response report, which you were talking about, within a deadline set by the institution, which is 30 to 90 days. You wrote to us in the Report and explained this nicely that in the first quarter of 2018 you received from the entities that were audited during the previous 2017, in accordance with the deadlines, for the removal of identified irregularities and response reports. In an analysis of these response reports, 21 audit entities failed to provide sufficient relevant evidence necessary to assess the authenticity of the response report, and a verification of the authenticity of the response report was carried out. The aim of this review was to obtain appropriate and sufficient evidence to give an opinion on the credibility of the response report. You have indicated that you have checked 20 responding audit entities and have found that 11 responding reports are credible, while nine response reports have not given a credible demonstration of the measures taken to correct the situation presented in the audit report. I will state here what is in your report, for the sake of the public, to see where these subjects were shown the situation was not well: the town of Valjevo, the municipality of Luciani, the Tourist Organisation of the Municipality of Luciani, Dragačevo, Guca, the Centre for Culture and Sports of the Municipality of Luciani in Guca, the municipality of Presevo, the Dom of Culture "Abdula Krasnica" Presevo, the preschool institution "8 March" Presevo, the Apotheca Bor, the Apotheca Šabac. Following an assessment of the authenticity of the reported reports, as well as checks on the truthfulness of the correction measures, the institution made up 197 post-audit reports. This information is very important. Of those 197 post-audit reports, it was satisfying 176. So your review gave us the results. They did as you counseled them. However, a total of 21 were unsatisfactory, and that - as a violation of the obligation of good business, 17 were assessed, and as a serious violation of the obligation of good business four. I learned through my education, when we analyze mistakes, when we find mistakes, it's very important to establish so-called mistakes. Restraint. So we came to a certain stage when we found that certain subjects didn't do something right, that they did something that wasn't by the book and you gave them advice on how to make it right. What does that feedback mean? Now it's important, very important, to determine whether it's a random or systematic mistake. If it's a random mistake, then those responsible, i.e. appropriate measures should be taken against those responsible. If it's a systematic mistake, we need to see if it's some kind of legal failure or some legal discrepancy, which is actually a job for all of us. So, since you're responsible for your part of the job, we're together, and you and we, but also the Serbian government, are responsible for rounding up the whole system and making things right, so that in the next period of time mistakes don't happen. In this regard, it is particularly important that you have given a review of the recommendations for amending and supplementing the rules in your report. You have listed regulations that need to make appropriate changes or additions, and in one place even to pass a regulation that has not been passed at all. I'll just list them, I won't say what you suggested, and we certainly have that in mind. According to your proposal, it is necessary to make certain amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and the Law on Donations and Humanitarian Aid, then, the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, certain amendments and in the Law on the financing of local self-government. Certain amendments should also be made in the Law on Public Property, then, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Matters, the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Law on the Payments of State Employees and Deputys, the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and the Law on Health Protection, i.e. The Health Insurance Act. There are two more: the Law of Defence against the City and the Law on the Law of Objects. But you have also suggested that a regulation be passed, which has not been passed, and that the law regulates the health insurance of military insurance. I've been over a lot of time anyway, so I'd like to conclude, with this in mind, that I fully support your report. I'll vote for his adoption. I fully agree with Dr. Aleksandra Tomic's opening statement, as chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and control of the spending of public funds, and in the part where they submit a proposal for a conclusion, where it is said that most audited users of public funds have not established an internal control system in such a way that they provide business in accordance with the rules, and in this part we have to bring together more accounts. Thank you and congratulations on your successes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55452	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55453	Thank you. Dear Mr. Pejovic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, it is a pleasure to hear so many good and nice words about the institution itself, about the report. I am particularly pleased that I am a member of the Committee on Finance and a member of the Subcommittee on Audit. But what impressed me is something that's on the other side of the report, something that I, in my speeches, use a lot of here, to say, under the precepts. I always say, when a man has a purpose, he has a result, and you have put something I mention in every speech. It's a mission and a vision. For a wonderful miracle, for an independent institution, this mission and vision agree with the mission and vision, above all, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, with the mission and vision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the mission and vision of all of us MPs here from the majority, or from the ruling coalition. It is a healthy, rich, orderly Serbia, Serbia of the future. You can tell from your mission and vision. You can see that from your work so far. They mentioned everyone in 2005, the date on which the DRI started again. There was turbulence, there were crashes, there were problems, first of all, personnel, organizational, spatial. I think we helped a little too. When I tell you, I mean the Board of Administrative Affairs, who knew that he understood your needs for new personnel in the last period and for your space problems. I remember the first time we came to you: it was nice, healthy, suffocating and there were a lot of us in a small space. Now that's much better. What I particularly want to point out, because speaking behind my colleague Arsic, behind my colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, behind Mr Kovacevic, who had little say what I was about to say, is very difficult, but what I particularly want to point out is what you are doing controlling the spending of public funds. Public funds that are, thank God, and you can see this, growing and bigger and we have more and more resources that we can use for new investments, for development, for the development of our country. These are hard-earned funds and one man is trying very hard to bring these funds, to open a new factory, because the new factory will also bring new jobs, new jobs will bring taxes and contributions, will bring inflows and revenue into the budget. You're here to stop some of them who want to hold their hand. It is seen from your report that there are many people who have sinned in their work, who have not had any intentional mistakes, who had no last intention. You advised them nicely, warned them, gave them the opportunity to do all of this in the response report of the I.D. Some didn't take it as advice at first. They thought it was a personal attack. I'm glad, and you, Mr. Pejovic, you know who I'm talking about, which I had the pleasure of the other day that the man who was against the DRI told me - well done, we had three objections, all three of us were corrected. I saw the pleasure in him. So he realized that it was his help, not something that was imposed. For the other part, for those who want to put their hand in a jar and take, not five million, not 500 thousand, not five euros, you're here to stop it and keep that money where it's supposed to be. They mentioned some subsidies. I think we've come to some good conclusions about the subsidies in all our wonderful conversations. Subsidy yes, but a subsidy to the end-user, which will help the consumer. It will not increase the price of some of our services in public enterprises, but it will use that subsidy to technically and technologically raise the level, to have a better quality of service without the end-user paying for it. He pays it through the budget, but not all of us, as natural persons, as economic operators, are going to pay. We mentioned it as a wonderful example of water. At the last minute, a public water supply company is increasingly benefiting less and less from subsidies. Why? Because they've stepped on healthy feet, because they're doing healthy business and they're following some rules. What I would especially, and I think that's what Goran Kovacevic mentioned, is what you did to finally have a list, I would say a list, or whatever you call it, property. From the bar to the country. We've been here at least four or five times moving deadlines to do something. We have real help from you, because we don't even know how much property we have and how rich we are at the bar. Some know, they know about every garage, they know about every hectare of land, every ar of land, they know about every apartment that no one knows about, or any business space. They're probably interested. It's impossible to use all of that without us being listed, not having income and it's virtual. There's a lot of help. When someone sees we're financially strong, they'll help us. That's where I'd end up, because this really was a wonderful and long discussion. We'll see each other and cooperate further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55454	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55455	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the DRI Council, respected colleagues, respected citizens, the day we've been waiting for, can be said, for a very long time, given that this is the first debate of this kind in the National Assembly, and this is the first debate in which we are just speaking with the DRI. So, we're talking to an institution that serves, among other things, exactly to protect the budget, whose budget, namely, the Serbian citizens' budget. Is it a local budget, whether it's republican, whether it's a public enterprise, all that's in the budgets controlled by the DRI are just the funds of Serbian citizens. It's very important that so far the citizens have not had the opportunity to see these people. Here, that's the team, those are the people. They're led by the president and what's good, I'm proud of it and in the past I've been involved in working with the DRI, is that there's not a single spot on the operation of this DRI that someone would point to, not one bad one, not to say a negative response by those who've been controlled. That's exactly how it can be done in state institutions. What we have since 2012 is exactly the commitment, first and foremost, of Alexander Vukic and the Government, and now at the position of the President of the Republic of Serbia, which is the commitment to results, the commitment to an honest relationship with citizens. This very fair attitude towards citizens is, among other things, in one part, whether it is modest and how much we do not have to measure it, but it is very important that the part that it achieves and which it can do and which it guarantees the DRI. We certainly have a problem here that you find, which we have seen, which are truly commendable... These are, believe me, thousands and thousands of pages of the report, and in order to get thousands of pages of the report from this DRI, these State Audit Institutions, they are looking at tens of thousands of different acts, memos, contracts, transcripts, agreements. Everything that goes through their hands is really kilograms, tons of material, or tons of objects, tons of leaves. What's good is this report is very precise, very clear and there are no unknowns. What's not good, and it's really not a DRI problem, maybe it's our common problem, when I say us, I mean the MPs and the DRI together, and that's to figure out how to make these reports the basis of stronger results. When I say stronger results, I mean the results of the response results, or what was achieved with that. I would ask, if at all possible, here, we have reports of what was done in 2018, let's make a cut at the end of 2019 compared to what was reported for 2018 and see what were the developments and what was done exactly in those institutions that were controlled in 2018. I'll take for example, which is a really negative example for the business of a city administration, but a positive example for business, i.e. how to control the DRI, which is exactly the city of Sabac. I'll remind you of 2015. It is very important to remind that there is a city administration in its business, in which the mayor in the business for 2015 managed to abuse his position, there is a illogicality, that is, a business in which he was dissonated, no less, no more, but 598 million 920 thousand dinars. Yes, citizens, 598 million 920 thousand dinars are not in line with the budget. Budget is a very simple thing and there's a revenue side, there's a spending site where you know exactly where the money that comes into the budget is spent. In Šapac, 598 million 920 000 were spent past the budget of the items envisaged. Among other things, it is the mayor of Nebojsa Zelenovic, who is certainly, as in any other city, as in any other municipality, the only responsible person, which is written in the budget, I do not know exactly on which side, but in the budget of each city says that the only person responsible for spending the budget is the mayor, in this case Nebojsa Zelenovic, in one municipality of the municipality's president in another municipality, the second president of the municipality. So the responsible person is the mayor. Among other things, these 598 million are in different positions, but only a few 297 million have been spent more than approved, apropriation 297 million, 89 million dinars without valid, credible documentation, 31 million without a contract or any other written act. Imagine, this is what the report says - without a contract or any other written act. So someone at the city administration in Sapac spent 31 million dinars, which a colleague says is five euros, but 31 million dinars without a contract or any other written document. They spent 42 million without implementing public procurement laws. So 42 million in the 2015 budget. Why I read all this, why it's important, and it's important, I'm talking about the 2015 budget, we have 74 apartments. The state audit institution has found 74 apartments that simply do not exist, which are not kept in the records, which is exactly what my colleague before me said -- that 74 attitude someone knows very well where they are, knows very well who is using them and knows very well that they are not recorded in the budget. Why am I talking about 2015? Because when it is established what has been done, on this day of that 2019, that same mayor still abuses his function, abuses the budget, abuses the funds of the citizens of Sapco, the budget of the citizens of Sapca. So we've managed to do something, but we're not, sort of slowly, DRI of course, can't do everything, but other than DRI, of course, both the D.A.'s and the D.A.'s have to do their part of the job. In 2016, we have a mayor who, just before the elections at the Šapca City Assembly, is budgeting 2.7 billion capital investments, 2016 before the elections. Of these capital investments it is - 500 million heat on biomass, underground and underground garage, fruit centre, Sava Park. We're talking 2.7 billion pre-election budgets. That was 2016. On this day of 2019, three years later, none of these projects were done, but were not started. Meanwhile, what has been established, but in 2019 on today, the mayor is still not where he should be. Whether he should be in Sremska Mitrovica or in Capca, whether he should be convicted or not, it's not on us, it's on the judiciary right now. But what about when the mayor just thanks to the state's slowness he has the opportunity to do what he does and spends the budget of the people of Shupco year after year. I'm talking about a mayor who continues to abuse. We mention 2016, in 2016 this mayor bought votes. He didn't buy it, maybe he didn't. He must have been buying votes and there's a tone record. There's also a prosecution verdict in which his activist admitted to buying votes. In that note, it says -- I buy votes for Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic. The vote pays five to ten, 12 thousand dinars depending on the size of the family. What about the mayor who bought the votes in 2016, and he's still in power in Sapac in 2019? This same mayor, it is not enough for him, in 2017, when we had elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, all those who did not want to vote, or not to vote, to make a list of safe votes for Vuk Jeremic, here first of all I think that the director of home health, the employees of doctors in the home of health, in the waterway, all of them were out of work. Since they lost their jobs, without any legal basis, after a year of speaking to the court, they were all returned to work and all will be compensated for their personal incomes right from the budget of the town of Šapca. At that moment when these people are out of work, he, among other things, hires a veterinarian in a health care home because the veterinarian was on the list of his committee candidates. On the other hand, the president's driver, who was stopped by police, of course, did not stop at an attempt to stop, tried to escape, the official speaker of the assembly's president who is on p.p. He didn't have a driver's license. What kind of city administration allows itself to have the president of the assembly working on p.p. Jobs as president of the Assembly, when he's stopped by the police, he can't stop because he doesn't have a driver's license, he's trying to run. We're talking about someone in the city's administration extending a job contract to someone not the driver's seat at the moment that man doesn't have a driver's license. I just don't want to owe you a debt, I just want to tell you in the DRI and Serbia what the problem is that what the DRI finds is not realised in a quick and correct and fair way through the prosecution and through the court. If someone has abused 598 million 920 thousand dinars and abused them safely, it's not at all controversial, what's good with DRI is that your reports are not challenged. The only one who really managed to challenge him with his conduct was the judge of the basic court who in the first degree freed the mayor's responsibility. Two of his associates, who at the same time were convicted by the primary court of abuse in the budget, by reporting DRI. The mayor is, as the third, most responsible, the only one freed in the basic court that there is not enough evidence. Is it possible for someone to release the mayor of 598 million? Of course, it is fortunate that there is a higher instance, so when the primary public prosecutor's office was complained at the Supreme Court in Capco, he was convicted, so of course he complained to the Court of Appeal. Now, the Court of Appeal is, of course, considering how all this works, when Mayor Zelenovic complained, he did not dispute the DRI findings. He was complaining, and there's probably gonna be an aging case. It's very important that he knows that he's abused the budget, but only those in the primary court who tried didn't know how to see it. What's good and at least we have it, it doesn't have to, for some reason the judiciary can't get there, when there are DRI citizens very well know that what they wrote is certainly true and they know very well who abused the budget. In that case, and in any case, Mayor Zelenovic and his mentor, Dusan Petrovic, will certainly be delivered by citizens in the next local elections. What's good, not to take too much time, we had last week's elections for the Mayur Meat Community, so the citizens of the Mayur Meat Community in the mayor's election gave one huge zero. So, out of the 15 candidates she supported the SNS, there were 15 candidates who supported the second option, the SNS won by 15 zeros. More importantly, SNS candidates won around 1,800 votes, and candidates from this particular mayor who abuses the budget won 300 votes. So six times more votes were given to SNS and fair relations policy to citizens, policies of fair and divided subsidies to foreign investors and farmers and anyone in need of subsidies. What is very important, Serbia with the help of DRI, with the help of other institutions and thanks to Alexander Vukic, is moving forward bravely at the fifth speed. I have a feeling that those from the yellow company didn't drive the third and the second, they didn't drive the first, they were driving the reverse, and they were driving like the Mouse in "Who's There to Sing" with their eyes tied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55456	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55457	Thank you. President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the DRI, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we heard a lot at today's session on the role and importance of the DRI, especially when it comes to the importance of public finances of the state and we are free to say that the DRI has made an immeasurable contribution to strengthening the efficiency of the public sector in the interests of all Serbian citizens, as well as strengthening transparency and accountability when it comes to spending public funds. So, in one word, because of Serbian citizens, DRI is checking whether public funds are being spent effectively, efficiently, economically and finally in accordance with the law. Of course, there are examples of good practice in this context, but unfortunately there are examples of bad practice. We just heard from counterpart Birmancevic one of the examples of bad practice, and I could point out some more examples that were observed during the revision of local authorities. In front of me is the report on the review of the respondent report of the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka. Personally, I think this is the worst example of that bad practice we talked about. It dates back to 23 October 2014 and it is said that there have been no irregularities detected in the audit report and that: regarding the commitment, because on 30 June 2014, the commitments of direct beneficiaries of the budget were established at least in the amount of 461.000 dinars, nearly 462,000 dinars, then the obligation of indirect beneficiaries of budget funds of 622,000 dinars and the obligations of other beneficiaries of budget funds, public enterprises, the school of 882,000 dinars, representing a total commitment of at least 1,967,000 dinars, so without nearly two million dinars. Then, the total budget account block of 15 primary and secondary schools, five local communities, 10 indirect beneficiaries of budget funds and four other users of the CAP "Palanka Service", the JKP "Vovod", the JKP "Mikulja", the JKP "Occupied Cemetery", was constantly increased and was the same for the period from 01 January 2012 to 07 October 2014 for 15,610 days. That's how much she was in the blockade. Then, the total active accounts with interest calculated were not removed and were the same on the day of October 07, 2014 at 535,825 dinars. Account of budget implementation, accounts of indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, accounts of schools and public enterprises. The amount of outstanding tasks has been constantly increasing. For example, it is. for the implementation of the budget of JP "Palanka Development" and JP "Palanka Apartment", at the end of 2012 amounted to 55,000 dinars, and on 7 October 2014 233,000 dinars. Then, the municipality of Smederevska Palanka, the municipality's assembly, the president of the municipality, the municipal council, the municipal administration, did not remove the detected irregularities from the area of public procurement, and then the president and the municipal council did not remove the detected irregularity in connection with the taking over of obligations greater than the approved appraisal. Then, the municipality of Smederevska Palanka did not remove the following irregularities: it did not provide evidence that the decision on the budget of the municipality for 2014 planned the memorabilia items as income, then did not ensure that the revenue from the payment of the municipal fee for the use of parking space for road vehicles, then the fees from the use of construction land, the lease of public land at a specified time for temporary facilities, the lease of business space and the income from the dedicated transfers of indirect users of the municipality budget was paid to the public revenue account, then Smederevska Palanka municipality did not plan funds to finance the work of political entities for 2014. Then, the municipal administration didn't remove the following detected irregularities, now that I'm not reading everything, I don't have enough time. In one word, we can sum up the situation. The municipal leadership in the period from 2012 to 2016, when the municipality was managed by the one they call Kena, is otherwise an MP of the DS, but an MP who does not carry out his parliamentary duty because they are in the so-called The boycott, for one term, has destroyed, devastated, destroyed the municipality, which is evident from this report of yours. She brought that little town into a state of health, left them out of power and out of water. Left without one segment of the functioning of that municipality. The total debt was nearly four billion dinars. So that's almost four annual budgets of the municipality. For just one term, watch out now, while the head of Smederevski Palanka was Radoslav Milojičić Kena, the largest monetary amount directly from the municipal register each year was received by FK "Jasenica", the Fubola Club "Jasenica". In 2015 alone, a total of 20,811,000 dinars were transferred to this club. The money was then raised from the FK's account "Jasenica", through checks that had no coverage, and daily amounts reached even 300,000 dinars. So he was pumping the accounts of FK "Jasenica", and then pulling cash from the same club. The municipality's suspicious affairs and, in all likelihood, a number of long-standing malfeasances have led Smederjevska Palanka to bankruptcy. The municipal bill in the blockade, which we just found, for about 800 million dinars, and the debt is about 2.2 billion dinars, but that should be added to another 1.7 billion, after a number of lawsuits, claims, charges, interest payments and everything else. So four billion dinars. Like I said, he left the city without power, without water, left the city in huge losses, minuses and in debt for just one term. There's more of those examples. There's an example of the town hall of the Witch that I come from. The same is the report on the review of the Vračar City Municipality's response report since 13 October 2014, so you gave an opinion and drew attention to it, and it says - we draw attention to the fact that Vračar City Municipality should continue with more effective implementation of the measures taken to remove detected irregularities. Not to read everything now, but there are a few interesting items. The initiation of court proceedings for the collection of claims based on the lease of a business space, it is a question of JP "Vračar business space", there was a creepy situation, creepy. So thousands of squares of business space disappear overnight. There are now, and all of a sudden they're gone, they're gone. In particular, I say, for claims over three years of age and claims in the case of "Three clusters" AD Belgrade. Then he says – alignment of the demand situation with the tenants of the business space and the list and recording of 421 apartments, the area of at least 14,350 square meters and the value of at least a million and 574,000 dinars. I don't know if this number is true, but it doesn't matter. So, we have the same situation as in Smederjevska Palanca when it comes to Vračar City Municipality, and all of this reminds us of Mr. Birmancevic's earlier narrative, when he presented the situation regarding Sabac. So, and that is, the DS falls out of power, leaving numerous minuses, debts and losses, specifically when it comes to the Wizard, these losses are measured by hundreds of millions of dinars, so 781 million dinars of total losses, minus and debt. We said five thousand squares ago, and it's more, so 5,354 squares of business space and 421 controversial apartment. Now, that's not all, let's just say, to put it that way, stolen. There are a number of apartments returned by restitution of old owners, etc., but certainly 261 dwellings remained an enigma in which the municipality lost 261 dwellings. We said it was thousands of squares, missing squares of business space, and we said the total loss of 781 million dinars. What's in common here with all these municipalities? I don't have enough time to read the report when it comes to the Paracino municipality, where the situation is similar, the nuances are common, it's common that it was either DS or some coalition made up of parties that came out of the DS. There is a logical conclusion here, and that is that wherever they ruled, they left only the losses, the minuses, the debts, the debts that we will repay, the debts that Serbian citizens will repay. In doing so, they provided themselves, while they filled their pockets, and today they are trying all their performances and actions just to return to power to continue their wealth and to keep the citizens poor, as they have poored in years of power. That's why it's important for us to introduce the citizens to these reports and the real state of affairs, in order for these examples to never happen again. I apologize for making it too long, and I will definitely support the report on the DRI's work in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55458	The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55459	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the State Auditing Institution, Mr Pejovic, is also on the agenda of the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution, which brings the National Assembly to know the information on the implementation of the 2018 Audit Programme, but with the findings, opinions and recommendations set out. Thus, on the one hand, the State Auditing Institution points to the importance of its existence, but on the other hand, it also strengthens the accountability and transparency of state authorities and the public sector as a whole. The revision programme includes in particular the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation of compulsory social security, the unit of local self-government, the operation of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as public enterprises and companies established by the users of public funds. We are witnessing a growing awareness of the results of the work of the state authorities, we are also witnessing the growing need for more effective and more efficient work of the overall public sector. In order to meet these needs, accurate and comprehensive information is needed on the results of the work of state bodies, institutions and organisations, public enterprises, local self-government units and all direct or indirect users of public funds. It is precisely for these reasons that the State Audit Authority, as an independent control body, has great importance, primarily because of the recommendations that state revenues are distributed appropriately in accordance with the law. This also contributes to reducing corruption and possible abuse of positions. The great importance of the debate in parliament on the Report of the State Auditing Institution is also reflected in the fact that MPs, as representatives of the people, are precisely approaching their discussions with citizens the ways in which their money is spent and what exactly they mean or cover the audit procedures. It is also a reminder to citizens, but also to civil society organisations to engage themselves in external audit processes in Serbia. Citizens can submit representations of illegal spending and thus actually strengthen the relationship between them on the one hand and the State Auditing Institution on the other hand, because this institution is also aimed at improving the lives of citizens by fighting corruption, which is a major problem in every country, including us. On the other hand, parliament is the place where decision-makers are made to know that the money they have is not their own, but the money of citizens and that money from the budget is needed to be subject to control. It's important to look at the problem and address them systemically. I am sure that, in the coming period, the State Auditing Institution will, in an adequate way, contribute to the adoption of laws, their implementation and control of the application of laws and other regulations, and in particular I would stress the importance of co-operation between the State Auditing Institution and the units of local self-government, in order to spend money from the budget in the legal manner envisaged. Because of this quality and comprehensive report, which has really been discussed by many of my colleagues, and in order to give further support to the work of the State Auditing Institution, I will vote in the day of voting for the adoption of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55460	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55461	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, honourable Members of the People, honourable gentlemen of the State Auditing Institution, let me say that I may be one of those MPs who has read all the reports, since I've been a MP here, your reports since 2012, and so tonight I won't say much directly about them, about these reports, but I'm going to have something to do with them. However, let me say what it is, because most citizens do not understand what it is, because they asked me a text message – what are you discussing, what kind of institution is it? I know that we MPs know, most of us, let's say, citizens know, but still for those who don't know that we say that this is the highest state body to audit public funds in the Republic of Serbia, to control the implementation of all the budgets, not as we've heard here today, even some conflicting discussions, is independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as it suits us. Did we use that to a sufficient extent? No, as MPs. It's a good thing this is on the agenda. Did your other associates, let's say partners, use it? No, they're not. You've done your job remarkablely, let's just say, since I've been an MP, that's what the predecessors have been doing very well. You are well and you have put in the report that you are reviewing, reporting, making recommendations and initiatives to amend regulations and to highlight good practice, and that is good and it ends mainly. However, I must say to the prosecution that they are not doing their job, not only in this sense, but also when we ask parliamentary questions, they directly demand that we file criminal charges, not those who are in charge of official duty, but we will do so on another occasion. Let me say that the most significant users of your report are the National Assembly, we use your report to confirm whether the users of public authority are properly managing the funds and assets. Dear gentlemen, I will speak no more today than just one segment mentioned today by one of the MPs, which is in Chapter VIII's report on international co-operation, and in particular is emphasising co-operation with the United Nations Development Programme. Stop! That's where we left off, and now I'm going to comment on it all the time until the end of my speech. However, gentlemen, in the United Nations, we have people who abuse their functions and who should be subject to even our establishment to the State Audit Institute. I'm going to talk about one thing, and this is Vuk Jeremic, a wolf descendant, who has become one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, to say what it is. I'm gonna be specific tonight and ask him to deny me. If he's denying me the data I'm about to deliver tonight, I'm not gonna show up in this National Assembly anymore. He founded the Centre for International Co-operation, Policy and Sustainable Development. That should be controlled, gentlemen of the State Auditing Institution, prosecutors and courts. Allow me, for the sake of time, to say that Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, otherwise known as the Wolf descendant, said in 30.11.2018 that Aleksandar Vukic was a traitor and a traitorous bastard, finished quote. Dear People's MPs, for all this information I'm about to present, I'm prepared to answer criminally, materially, politically. Please, no trespasses. I'll start in a row, about this international bandit. On 04.07.2018, in a Chapanese bar called Moravski alasis, Dragan Djilas, in a people called Điki Mafia, Bosko Obradović, in a people called Bosko Violent, Janko Veseinović, called Janko Stanocrat, because he stole an apartment in Obrovica Milji refugee, on Kurjaković Street. 9, Dusan Petrovic, a former minister, ordered the slaughter of 250,000 cows from a total fund of 500,000, is why he is called a cow-killer, Vuk Jeremic, in a nation known as one of the leaders of an international gang of thieves and frauds. Sasa Jankovic, in a people called Sale Pranja, is all from the yellow variant. So, on 3 August 2017, he said, quote -- Serbia is in the interest of entering Interpol, and thus recognising Kosovo's independence, the quote ended. Is it true, gentlemen, that if I am denied, I will no longer, not only be a national MP, but walk through the city of Belgrade, that the citizens are looking at me in this city? And let me finish. They were best told by their DS member, writer and former Ambassador Svetislav Bashar, quoting – The Democratic Party in various variants is a self-rule community of thieves and thieves, completed quote 22. 5th Lord of 2019. Mr. Arsic, allow me in the end, however, regarding this international co-operation to say that Vuk Jeremic, as president of the UN General Assembly, was also a close associate with a member of the international gang of thieves Patrick Hoom, was convicted in the United States for illegal arms sales in Qatar, Libya and Sudan. Now, why does the representatives of the audit institution tell you, because from Qatar he received $320,000 donations through the Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development and I ask you to try the prosecution and you to look into the little center. When you spoke about local communities, I will only mention a local cabadia in Belgrade, which is Marko Bastic. Four sentences about him and a little peek at that community. The president of the Old Town municipality, Mr. Bastic, has established this practice on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia and the new element of political culture in the open-air position on the Old Town's parliamentary list of closest relatives. Take care, now, of his wife, of his wife's sister, of his wife's sister, of his cousin, of his godfather's mother, of all five. When they asked him why? He said that nothing is disputed about what they are doing with him. I put them on so they wouldn't defect to the trade mandate, finished the quote. This boastful Bastac, the owner of the Old Town, stops works in the Republic Square and is well known for running the business and with traffic signs. Dear People's MPs, honourable MPs, finally allow me to say that you could now know who the traitor is, while the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, makes superhuman efforts to find a long-standing fair and compromise solution for our southern Serbian province, while these gentlemen, whom I have listed from the Alliance for Serbia or those traveling circusers, tour the streets and the cities of Serbia and the total lies of the mud of our President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, his family, father, mother and brother Andrej. They've forgotten one thing, I'm undermining it, they've forgotten one thing, the more mud it gets, the more false it is, all kinds of insults, he's getting stronger, the stronger he's getting, the more impenetrable the rock. You know why? Because through him and his enormous positive energy, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are transposing their positive energy to modernise the Republic of Serbia for the future of our children and for the future of our country. Well done with your report, gentlemen from the audit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55462	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55463	Ladies and gentlemen, DRI, truthfully speaking over one year, the calendar year works fairly and every MP, no doubt knows. So, when we get this big material, we know if it's not budget time, then it's probably some material coming from the DRI. So, we ourselves know how much work is needed at only one annual level at your institution, respecting that work, and the correct report that you have provided us, I am telling you this report I think it deserves support. With all the important things, other important things that we talked about today, it was particularly interesting for me to look at two aspects of this report. The first refers, of course, to cooperation with the National Assembly. As a MP, as you expect me to be of particular interest, and I wanted to ask you, in your own words, if you give your assessment or your impression, it doesn't have to be more than one sentence, but I'm interested in hearing the public who is following it, even in a delayed transmission. What are your impressions, your assessment of co-operation with the National Assembly in the current meeting, not with this or that party or the parliamentary group, evaluate your relationship with the institution. Why would I ask that? This is clear because various persistent efforts are being made to present the relationship between the National Assembly and independent institutions in an aggressive and controversial way. They also accuse the president of the National Assembly, they did so today, if you did not follow it, Bosko Obradović and the Democratic Party and various others, if you could imagine it, I will read it to you – Mrs Gojkovic, the generator of violence, and in relation to other MPs but also to the institutions, although we know that, so it would be funny if it were not tragic and sad, when Bosko Obradovic, the proven bully said something like that to the president of the National Assembly. I want the public to hear from you that you appreciate the relationship with the House of the People's Assembly, and in your report on pages 79 and 80, you've shown this relationship in several cartoons, and I'm going to say why I think he's saying that this relationship was correct. First, because, as you can see from your report, the committee responsible for the congregation you directly cooperate with has always considered your annual reports. Secondly, because there were opportunities and opportunities you used to organise a public presentation of those contents that you consider important for both the Committee and the National Assembly and the public. Among other things, for programmes directly related to this type of co-operation, the Sigma project, effective co-operation between the Parliaments and the Supreme Audit Institutions, you have done so together with the Assembly Committee. Thirdly, because this same committee, with all its members and other interested MPs, held sessions outside the seat, where it reconsidered your reports regarding all the cities in which it was held, but also on the measures taken and on the effects that were achieved or not achieved. Fourthly, because a Subcommittee is formed that deals directly with what you think is important and that is what you are delivering to the National Assembly, which is also what people should know, finally or not, but because sectoral reports concerning budget audits and budget funds of the Republic of Serbia have been discussed, which is the answer to all who say that they could not discuss these contents, that they were not discussed or that it could not seem freely. So, the working body of the National Assembly, these issues related to the budget, discussed publicly together with the competent audit institution, and could have been attended by any MP who was interested in it, if he was interested in it in Serbian, since there were questions in which language we respond or in which we draw the relevant conclusions. I just wanted to ask you, so you don't really have to say from one sentence that you see this relationship, and because of this, but because of what everyone who spoke today, and from the parliamentary majority, but from different opposition groups. I don't think I'm wrong when I tell you - everyone in this National Assembly sees this relationship as correct. Secondly, your relationship with other institutions, including the international ones, why is it important that I don't talk about it any longer now, because those who pointed to it have gone away, we will discuss it at some other time, but why is it important that Serbia has a good relationship with both the West and the East and the professional plan that you are dealing with, but also on the political plan, which is, of course, more our task? It is quite clear, let it be a conclusion today because we take care of it, the prices more and more, far more than ever before, but directly for what you're doing, the negotiating chapters, correct me, 23, 32 and five, are where you're directly engaged. In two of those three, we also have in this European Commission report progress, someone can say smaller, someone can say bigger, but progress. In this third area, we stand exactly the same as last year, but the overall situation in the area is good enough, and so is the rest of them, where the negotiating chapters are open, it has to be high enough to open up, and all three of them are open here. We're talking about important things here. We're talking about important matter. So, when we talk about issues like that, and now it's already being measured by hundreds of millions of damages in the Old Town municipality, billions, even, you've heard of Smederjevska Palanka, or hundreds of millions at the level of the town of Sapac, it's important things and it's our obligation and nobody can call it political folklore or any campaign, it's our obligation to talk about things that are directly concerned with citizens, it's them and how, not just because of what's in those places today, but it's our obligation as politicians to say why it's important that we don't let such people fall back into the hands of the community, all cities and the Republic itself, then those disasters in hundreds of millions or billions, we have everywhere. When we say -- that's something that's unacceptable, we, ladies and gentlemen, always like to say how they see it themselves, or what they're capable of admitting themselves. I'll read to you, it's a short time ago, as only a few days ago, a man who, therefore, represents the former regime is now signing himself as a senior official of the DS. At the moment of repentance or attack of honesty, what is already, he explains what it looked like when the people in the elections replaced them, as they welcomed him and said, of all of them, Kostunica was leaving the authorities in anonymity and he did it modestly, and everyone else, so he talks about them, they talk about themselves, everyone else in their ranks provided themselves with fairies, foreign bank accounts or overpaid places in powerful boards of multinational corporations. So that's what they've been wasting their time on, that's why we've got that in these municipalities and cities today, and that's why we've had them in all the municipalities and all the cities. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is about important things. Has anyone managed to temporarily, I'm sure, distorting the liability of a criminal or a criminal, it has nothing to do with that policy we talked about today. People can't lie, people can't remember this stuff well. As a result, just a few weeks ago in Kosovo and Metohija, the people say that at a rate of 90 per cent and a half, over 90%, this thing condemns, and on the other hand supports the serious policy behind which Aleksandar Vucic, SNS, stands, our parliamentary majority. The other day 15 votes in the territory of the town of Sapca, this devastated and ruined Capac, 15 votes go to candidates standing on the list of Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and our partners, and those who acknowledge themselves that they have exclusively cared about their villas, their foreign exchange accounts and their furniture, get zero. It's that political responsibility. It is also a message for Zelenovic, although Paunovic would have something to learn from here. I'm sure of Gilas for a long time he'll never learn anything, just like this Bastache of his, but that they're dealing with these problems of their own and their Sundays. The data you provide us in these reports, your conclusions are never politically defined or guided. That data is sometimes I'd say cruelly honest, whether we like it or not. Because of all this, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for your report, so you know, of course, completely independent of how you will assess co-operation with this parliamentary majority. That decision has already been made and, you know, it is final. Our MP group, as far as you gentlemen are concerned, believes and hopes that we will have this good cooperation, as we see it, in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55464	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55465	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Milly is not here, so it was my honor to try to finish on behalf of the MPs' group. There's a saying that it's easy to be betrayed by someone else's money. It's easy to be betrayed by someone else's money, that saying is probably, it's an old saying, and then referred to the public sector. It's easy in the public sector to be betrayed by money, because it's someone else's money. You're here to control it. Budget is a document with a plan of income and a plan of expenditure. You are mainly here to show, by your own opinion, by your profession, whether that money is spent in accordance with the objectives set out in the budgets of the Republic, the province, cities, local self-government, public enterprises, institutions. You're the ones who need to keep that money and point out in your opinion that it's being spent on purpose or purposeless. I'll start with Vuk Jeremic. I don't know if the auditors were involved, but today one MP was talking about how we financed some Clinton or some campaign in America. This MP, Mr. Ševarlic, has not confirmed it with any argument, but I have a document that speaks quite differently. At the time of his reign, which was one joint criminal enterprise, the Serbian thief's alliance, so for consulting services in the United States by the company "30 Point Strategies", "Podesta", etc. Total paid $2,369,000. This is a document from the foreign ministry, where it is said that after 2013, such payments were no longer made in America, and that the payments that were then probably by auditors could not control it, based on the signature of Vuk Jeremic, and the speech was concluded by Mirko Stefanovic. Come on, guess who Mirko Stefanovic is? It's an old experienced diplomat from Sloby's time. The situation is the uncle of Borko Stefanovic. Borko Stefanovic's father, Vasilija, was one of the directors of NIS, and Borko Stefanovic was a negotiator at the sale of NIS for that cheap price. They fought Milosevic so much, they're so honest. So they paid the Americans $2,369,680. They've got companies, they've got everything. So no auditor can determine how many they robbed. We'd need an audit house where the staff would care about Maracana. It would take us so long to figure out what they stole. Also, what you cannot control, which is claimed by an organization called Financial Integrity, or something like that, from 2001 to 2010 on various British, Virgin Islands, the Cook Islands, totalled 51 billion dollars. So in the first ten years of this new millennium, the joint criminal enterprise, along with the bankruptcy directors, totalled a total of $51 billion from the citizens, based on the privatisation, i.e. the wild grabbing that followed in 2000. That money was going somewhere out there. Not only was he stolen, he produced poverty that was very difficult to see. That money when charged, it retreats from the pay system. Therefore, it causes poverty, small wages, etc., because it is not spent in our country. It is spent on Virgin Islands, British Islands, Cook Islands, White World Destinations, etc. He was abducted by Serbian citizens. So it's not in the system, it's causing double damage. Any shock of excessive wealth is caused by excessive poverty. They were champions in the production of excessive poverty, small wages, firing 600,000 workers. There was no equal in the world. I don't know if any of the auditors were dealing with Dragan Gilas, a red thief. So it's the one who boasts that he could make the subway far cheaper than he's planning to do now. Instead of the subway, he built underground containers. A bridge on Adi was supposed to cost 90m euros, secondly, ahead of construction, at 116m euros, and eventually cost 450m euros. So it cost five times the first projected price or four times the second projected price, because it did it based on the price projection of steel, so it went from 90 to 116, and it spent 450 million. Look at the wonders, he brought together two local communities in Belgrade, and in order for that bridge to be operational now, we need 2.4 billion architects to assess. So it's an alliance of thieves who are not in jail thanks to the Majic-type judges. So these are the same judges, and I'm going to say, below, that went to the USID Joint Programmes, etc., to the American Embassy. Let's move on, Goran Jesic. You were in control of the Indji municipality in 2013. I already said you did it professionally. That's where you found everything. There you have written seven criminal charges, I hope they are not obsolete and I ask the prosecutor, I demand with full right to process it, or to pass the charges to the judiciary and to process it, because what was done in the territory of the Indji municipality has not been done anywhere in Serbia, you certainly know that. Let's get in line. You have written a criminal report against the president of the municipality of Goran Jesic, with the right. By August 2012, he was the president of the municipality, and then he was succeeded by Petar Filipovic against whom you also filed criminal charges, with the right. You filed a criminal complaint against the president of the Alexander City Assembly, I can't remember my last name exactly now, but I'll remember. You filed criminal charges against Uros Curuvija, director of the Indji Municipality Directorate, you filed criminal charges against the head of director Steve Milaković, you filed criminal charges against the principal of kindergartens, it seems to me that his name is Mrs. Zelec, and you filed criminal charges against the director, it seems to me to be a cultural centre. You filed a criminal charges against everyone you controlled, so they were so messed up in crime and you filed four more criminal charges. So in India, it's, like, a "trade junk" center. The municipality bought a business space in a raw state, meaning built, omaltered, unturned, without installations, etc. for a square meter at a price of 1,954 euros without VAT. With VAT, it's over 2,300 euros. And today in Belgrade you can buy a fully equipped business space for less money. It's a miracle that business space was mortgaged. So the municipality bought a business space that was mortgaged for 2,300 euros and you probably filed a criminal report for it. This same purchased area, in the conclusion of the Indji municipality, such unfinished, is issued to the University of Novi Sad without compensation even though it was not bought for them for 20 years without any compensation. So a crime worth two million euros per 1,000 m2. This "Tread Hero", or TKU center as it was called, continues your report, says it has been given the right to pay utility and building land for 60 wars, past the law. On the other hand, the president of the municipality was found in a 250 square-square pent house. Only his terrace had 50 squares, and it speaks of the honesty of Goran Jesic and, of course, because he was in the USD programme along with Judge Majic and some other people as a young leader, he probably has some cover, because as far as I can see, in 2009, the United States almost took full control of the prosecution and of the judicial authorities, hence the strange judgments and hence these people at large, regardless of what you have filed criminal charges and I believe it is for abuse of office, and I believe that they are not obsolete, and I believe that the judicial authorities will find themselves, some, who will finally prosecute it. Also, I have to point out that you have recently exercised control of the Dvori. So I wrote an application for the non-intentional spending of 30 million dinars, which were neutraled from the presidential campaign, instead of returning to the Republic of Serbia's budget, the Dvera gentlemen pumped up on fake corporate operations for fictitious jobs and thus damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by over 250,000 euros. You controlled one period of one year, you didn't control everything, but you came across such violations unequivocally. That is why I call, given that criminal charges already exist, the competent prosecution and courts to prosecute, regardless of what it is about Bostic Ljotic Ljotic Žutić's assistant to finally take and process the case, because the budget of the Republic of Serbia is damaged for that money and that all those persons registered with the company's business and are dealing with persons who were on the election list Bostic Ljotic Žutić's political party calling itself Dveri. Finally, to say that we have no problem with the revision, our problem is the judicial authorities, the judicial authorities who have imagined that, except that politicians should not interfere in the judiciary, I can agree with that, but I can't even get judges involved in politics. The independent judiciary is not independent because they are independent of us who are professionally involved in politics. They're independent of politics. So it's not just that I can't get involved in their business, it's bipartisan. They must not interfere in our business either, they must not go on political shows to assess the work of the Assembly, MPs, etc. When they did, they raised all the judges, the High Council of the judiciary, the Supreme Cassation Court, etc., and forgot to say that the judges together with the lawyers had built a lobbying house, along with judges and lawyers, just to prevent those who set them up. We have a court of the yellow party, we have judges in 2009 who are the famous reform of the judiciary, in fact a deformity of the judiciary, deformity, therefore brought by those who should now be prosecuted. That's why I don't want you to be disappointed, but you have to have the patience to finally make that judiciary truly independent and to prosecute the perpetrators I described in this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55466	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55467	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you to everyone who answered and spoke and supported in any way the DRI's work. I truly thank and express great satisfaction on behalf of all the staff in the institution, on behalf of the colleagues and colleagues who are with me here today, of course and on their own behalf, thank you very much for the opportunity that we could present in this high house a report on the annual work of the institution before you, because you founded the DRI. The control function is in your hands, and we're only helping you with our work by giving you reports on every audit, every subject in which we do it. All our audits are on the site, all publicly available to all interested individuals and stakeholders. What I'm trying to say is that this is really one solemn day for DRI. This is one truly honor that we have received and commendation, but also obligations, of course and criticism, because we can't expect to receive criticism and praise from everyone at all times, it's waiting for us. So we're sure in that antique that they don't like a lot of bad news bringers, but as professionals, we'll do our job, certainly open, certainly true and objectively, whether or not someone liked it at some point, but we're willing to do it, because it's the interest of the state and we'll, for the sake of the state and its needs to arrange finance, give reports that will really be based on evidence. We in the Council of the Institutions in 2018 made major changes, not only in organization, management, leadership, staff management, change and mode. Individually, all audits are separate. They're working faster, more subjects, here's what we've noticed, and now there's going to be more audit and purpose reports. This means that a number of MPs through MPs, I say, will be more topics, because there will be topics in the field of public service, in the area of economics, health and social protection, housing, education, environmental protection, from all areas. So we'll have a more frequent and greater opportunity to be together in reporting. What I can say on behalf of the institution here is that we are truly completely independent of planning, conducting audits and reporting. Of course, this report shows that, too. Furthermore, we are giving a lot on this issue of launching an initiative to change and amend and supplement the rules that cause or may cause negative effects and help users to handle certain issues and problems and dilemmas more easily, because if something is not well arranged, it is not good for us as a control body either. It's certain that what I have to say is just a desire to move on like this. As far as DRI is concerned, we are here to do our job professionally, independently and, of course, based on evidence, and we will send our reports to you, and the support you provide us is also information and users, that the credibility of the institution is strengthened and that this is the need for their, their responsibility to increase, manage, surely open, that they also do on their own. This will help improve the situation in Serbia on all sides. Thank you for your total attention. I'm sorry if I didn't answer. Co-operation with the National Assembly has always been good, excellent, and we are now also in the USID and UNDP projects to make this co-operation as rich as possible, to make communication and reporting ways shorter, simpler, more understandable, more acceptable, in order to communicate in the best way possible. I'm sure we have the greatest co-operation with the Assembly, of course with other interested parties, but working with the Assembly is the most important thing, because through you we work with citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-18-0.u55468	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I'm concluding a unique search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
