ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the twenty-fiveth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 91 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened a session within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 86(1) and, in view of the need for the reports, which have been in Parliament's procedure for a long time, to be discussed and potentially adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for this twenty-fiveth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly, I have determined the following D's d'e n'e d'e d'e: 1. Consideration of the report on the law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, 25 March this year, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 2. Consideration of the Regular Annual Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018, submitted by the Citizens' Protector on 19 March this year, with a proposal for a conclusion of the competent committee and 3. Consideration of the 2018 Work Report with the Report on the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation, which was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 13 June this year and a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government from 17 June 2019. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Stanojla Mandić, Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, and Marinko Radic, Secretary General of the Trustee Service. Good afternoon and welcome. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the report on the law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government since 17 June this year. Do the proposing representatives, Stanojla Mandic, deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection and MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57608	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I will only say a few words about the work of the Commissioner last year. I hope that the report that drew your attention before you and that you were able to look at the scope and quality of our work during the previous year, but also at the same time the situation in the area of free access to information of public importance and in the area of protection of personal data. I wouldn't talk about it much. First of all, I would refer to the proposal for a conclusion that the National Assembly is considering today. I'm referring to the conclusion of the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government. Therefore, the proposal for a conclusion is based on the recommendations contained in the Report of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, and that is good. What I still have to realize is that it's not good, which is that in the proposal for a conclusion there are no recommendations relating to the area of protection of personal data, and that is a very important question, especially what this year is when a new Personal Data Protection Act is starting to apply since 21 August of this year. So one of the recommendations of the Commissioner was that this new Personal Data Protection Act, as we received at the end of last year, is inapplicable in many segments because certain institutes are not elaborated and are not adapted to our legal order. The law did follow European regulations, a new European regulation in the field of data protection, but did not adequately adapt them to our legal system and therefore one of our recommendations was to consider the possibility of the law being processed before its application. There are no recommendations in the Committee's conclusion. That the law really needs to be amended also confirms the European Commission study that we received a few days ago from the European Integration Ministry, in which an analysis of the harmonisation of the law with the General Data Protection Regulation and the conclusion of that study is exactly what needs to be done. The second recommendation of the Commissioner, which I did not see in the Justice Committee's conclusion, concerns the capacity of the Commissioner. The trustee has received significant new responsibilities, new jobs with this new Personal Data Protection Act. In the very Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it was said that the capacity of the Trustee must be significantly improved in order to respond to these new tasks and tasks. Unfortunately, there is no such recommendation in this Committee's conclusion, and that's not good. In fact, the European Commission report itself speaks of the need to improve the capacity of the Commissioner. In this regard, the fact is that the Trustee for this year received almost the same budget as last year, which says there is no room for some increase in the capacity of this body. What I'm trying to say is that this is not just a lack of these recommendations regarding the application of the Personal Data Protection Act, these are not just questions concerning the Trustee. These are, above all, issues concerning the rights of citizens, but to the same extent and issues concerning the interest of the economy, because all those who do business or want to operate on our market, who have clients here or offer goods and services, those companies to which a new Personal Data Protection Act will apply, surely, should count on legal certainty and security in business in this market. So I think it's very important for these few recommendations to be found in this conclusion, but unfortunately, they are now gone. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57609	Thank you, Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Does the proposal's representative, MP Petar Petrovic, chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want the word? No, I don't. ) Does the committee’s rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Mandic, was expected at any time when this report of the Commissioners after four years of not considering the annual report on the work of the Commissioner was put on the agenda, that you would appear here. You or no one, given that Serbia has not had its trustee since December, after the term of office of Rodoljub Sabic. We are now hearing from the media and a great dust has risen between the Progressive and on the other side of the Gilas camp about who will be the new Trustee and the proposal of the ruling coalition has already been crystallised, but perhaps you didn't know, SRS' position is well known, the SRS believes Serbia does not need the Trustee. The moment he was founded as, and he was supposed to be an independent state body with a fifth-floor office in King Milan in the attic, without a computer, without a phone, perhaps Mr Sabic spoke to you or were with him at that time, it was clear that there was nothing from that job and that it was only on paper and that then the dossal authority was just as forward as this one now wanted to enlist its mentors from the EU and make it by their orders an institute that would look like something that exists in those countries, i.e. Serbia's obligation to join the EU against what the SRS is. We were still at the time, and probably Mrs. Mandic followed the National Assembly's meeting in December of last year, when the Personal Data Protection Act was on the agenda, that we Serbian radicals submitted over 50 amendments. These were amendments that exactly, as you say, were meant to define certain areas, not just notional nature, but essential, how it would protect citizens from the abuse of their data. And not only has it not been done, but we have come to an absurd situation that this hot summer of 2019, more specifically on 21 August, the law will start with its application, and that many things are not cleared up and that we have this report that is in the assembly procedure, which is abundant with numerous abuses by state authorities. We are the people's representatives here, the MPs now we have to, I'm going to start by, we're talking to citizens who may absolutely not know what we're talking about and what their rights are under the Constitution, because usually such people don't talk to each other, I'm telling you, you probably have experience with people who want to ask for their rights, and they don't know how to travel their way, and then they don't know what that information is. If this is the simplest way to explain to them what information is of public importance under the Law on free access to information of public importance, it must meet certain conditions, that information, in order for it to be of this importance. It can be the only information available on the one hand by a public authority, and it can be information available to someone else, and it is in the interest of citizens, because citizens and under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have the right to be informed of everything that is important for the functioning of society, their lives. Not only this law that I have mentioned, but many other laws that have been passed in the congregation at the same time or perhaps after this law that you have spoken of, which I will most, just lead to that citizens are not protected. Immediately after the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Health Protection Act of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. You've been following that, probably. The law absolutely did not protect the citizens in terms of their rights as the Constitution and this law imposes. Prior to that, the Colloquial Law on organ transplants, he has another, the whole full name, medically, adopted in the Assembly. He also did not protect citizens from abuse by medical institutions and all those who wanted to pass such a law at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia entered the process that tomorrow, today they can manipulate the organs of the deceased even though he did not give consent and then had the opportunity to manipulate the members of his family. This law is not a protection or deceased person, it is also, I think, and you have pointed out before, as Mr. Sabic did. We talked about this very often, even one day all the expertise on the electoral process and abuse of the law proposed by Mr Ruzic on the electronic administration and the single polling list was given by Radeta. How can this be manipulated at the very polling place of the day when choices are made without God's help, because of the loss of his life, that electoral right? We simply come into a situation where, as MPs, serious people, in front of the citizens who are following us now, we ask why are all these laws when all this is farce? When we have a situation that even today many institutions, individuals, companies, by misusing our data from all Serbian citizens, work and function uninterrupted without being punished for it. On the other hand, we have this absurd situation that the Commissioner has been given the right to respond to complaints from citizens and to seek the strictest sanctions for institutions, for the authorities of the state, for companies, and that they are deaf to it, right? Even criminal responsibility, has anyone been held accountable for misusing someone's data? Of course not. Now we get to what's the point, how do we do it and it works? This is beyond the recommendations of the National Assembly. If, I see you've been on the board, you haven't called here either, or the chairman of the board, or an authorised representative, this is all farce. What it says in these conclusions, in five points, Mrs. Mandic, well, I guess it's a regular job to do the National Assembly, not to commit in such a funny way. The National Assembly says, calls on the Government, here's a point 2 to read to you, not to waste so much time on it, to take the necessary action in the next period to enable the effective application of the principle, prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act, and to ensure that the adoption of sublegal regulations is fully achieved by citizens' rights to the protection of personality data in accordance with the applicable regulations and international standards. Is it necessary for the National Assembly, as the highest legislative authority, whose one of the main pillars, since it has four main pillars of operation, to be a control function over the government, to now urge the government, to write letters like this, to have the government and the state authorities do their job? It means that in the beginning it's all wrong and it's not going to be anything. Five confidants that exist, and we don't think there should be any, but there are criminal courts, senior courts, administrative courts that need to resolve these disputes, because the paradoxical situation in which you've been in many cases, is likely to be, in many cases, that you're applying against a state body, an institution, and that on the other hand, there's a case before a senior court, right, can the court's decision be different than your conclusion? Of course he can. Then what's to be respected for? So if we start from all the branches of the government in Serbia doing their job properly, the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the judicial branch as an independent branch of society, then let's just make the courts do their job and that's the right example for them. We here today will try to point Serbian citizens to all the dangers that lurk. Many know, many don't know, but to tell you something, many just find out when they are experiencing a disaster, especially in these high-tech ones, what they call them, processes, Internet fraud, data abuse by banks, and especially by these biggest greeners and the greatest evil that has affected Serbia, and these are public perpetrators. Public perpetrators, Mrs. Mandic, completely unauthorized, although they are established by law, we are now collecting all over Serbia, and here I invite you and your associate to sign a petition to put out of force that law and that they are abolished. They were totally illegally collecting data, because the law gave them this role, processing absolutely all the data of an individual, who is a debtor, even members of his family, so when they come to you and knock on your door they know and who you have in the house, and who's employed, and who's not employed, and who receives what pension. And the citizens only then, and especially the pensioners, and even those with minimum incomes, when they get into a situation where they have nothing to accept, that this villain, I don't know how to call him, took everything from the bailiff, because the state authority, so someone gave him that information, couldn't find out for himself whose current account he is, and who's his home number, where he receives the salary, so that citizen is unprotected, he's left with nothing. And who can he complain to, complain when they come to get him out of the house, out of his apartment, with some abnormal debt for some debt that was, well, visible, but that was supposed to be paid in a regular court procedure? That trend, as they would call it, those who apply it, has taken so much time that people simply don't know who to turn to anymore, or what to do. We have cases that the committees, here, our committees across Serbia's cities, and MPs have been asking questions to various institutions, state authorities. They never got any answers to that. Then how do you expect them to give it to you? As MPs in the Assembly every Tuesday and Thursday at the beginning of the session, we have the right to seek information, notifications, clarifications, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, from the authorities of the state authorities, ministries and all others, which we need to inform citizens, to give them this public information, because it is our obligation and to expose some malversion, to protect the right of citizens. Do you think we got some normal information and something that looks like we asked that question? A few days ago we read, I think the total number of answers, from over 150 SRS MPs asked, about 30 questions or 40 that they answered us. We asked Mrs. Mandic, among other things, what kind of contract was signed by someone in power, although it is said to be the previous government with the "Fiita"? Did that tickle you, too? Yes, and you talked about it at your press conferences. 'Cause that's what's keeping every employee out there. Is he going to be fired tomorrow or 21 August, usually in August, for the annual vacations of an Italian company, because he doesn't know what it says in the contract and the contract annex? Well, how many states did she pay for every job? We have come, Serbian radicals, to this data that it is 11,000 euros, 10,000 euros for the subsidy and 1,000 euros for training, so that they do not pay taxes and contributions for their employees in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that they are privileged in many ways and that they have cost Serbia over a billion and 200m euros. Who gives us this information now? Nobody. The minister came in the other day, Sinisha Mali said -- I wasn't a minister at the time, you know, I don't have that data. And these are data concerning the direct budget of the Republic of Serbia. We have asked many other burning questions for Serbian citizens from various areas, companies, abuses. What's the matter? Here, you've included one piece of it here on one page, 24 controversial privatisations, why it's not over. We just never got an answer. When we as bearers of the sovereignty of the people who passed on to us the elections, the representatives of the citizens, were unable to obtain that information, so how do you think that in everything that represents really harsh abuse and such laws as they are, like this one, you will get that information? The way citizens' data is processed is also... Yes, indeed, it does not appear in your report, but we Serbian radicals know that and we spoke when the law was passed. You know, we have, on the other hand, the Inspectorate Control Act, and we Serbian radicals not to argue with it, but we think that it should be applied, not that every minister comes with some law and invents some warm water. If we already have inspection supervision under the patronage of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest authority of the executive authority, then some inspection is doing its job, because to that end even the Government of the Republic of Serbia for inspection supervision for certain areas can also educate the Commission. This is how you come into college, you as a trustee, or your body, bring one conclusion and react in one way, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia sends that inspection where illegal construction is, where jobs are being obtained past tenders and then they say – no, no, you're wrong, we have this conclusion, and what you wrote, it's something different. So we have a situation that in the worst possible way, the principle of public procurement and free competition is not respected. This is the freshest example for you in the case of the construction of this Preljina-Pojate highway, where the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia signed a memorandum with US Ambassador Kyle Scott that the US company Bechtel will build that section of the highway, and it is known that several years before that, here, and there is a live and healthy Milutin Mrkonjic, the same business offered by the Chinese, namely China's Tea Road and Bridges company for 300m euros less. And where's some justice? How are we going to protect the citizens here? On that case we spoke, there won't be any protection. First of all, no one asked or consulted them about anything, secondly, and no one knows today exactly what is the route of that highway and how in that blue area where the river had previously taken away their property to execute the necessary expropriation of land, how much it would pay them, who would first compensate for their damage. Nothing, we didn't get anything in response. Simply, Bahata Minister Mihajlovic laughs, she's fine, she has arranged for herself a commission at a bar or in Hayat at her celebration she organizes at a hotel with Kyle Scott, and the people will suffer and be silent and there will be this new trustee who is currently the ruling majority and he will not be able to do anything. How will the trustee, who will obviously exist, because we don't have enough MPs now, and when we are able to rule, change all these laws that are at the expense of citizens and these innovations that don't lead to anything, how will he protect the individual rights of each individual? Not at all. Abuses are possible in the health system of the Republic of Serbia as well. I said the most drastic examples of this possible organ transplant. And how to protect citizens who can't get valid information? On the other hand, their home number, their personal data through ID, interception, legitimateization by a communal police officer, you know about the fact that the law was passed the other day, a municipal now militiaman can stop a taxi vehicle, search for all his data, and that identification and in which the association drives, his home number, his driver's license. Well, can someone do that without the police? Of course he can't. Who do the citizens complain to? They have no one to complain to. You have a situation to process bank data where people come in to open current accounts and get paid on the current account, because especially they, and most of the time, it's a private obligation for them to receive from the current account. They don't just delete that data, but they stay with them permanently, so when one of them calls you for a debt he knows after 10 years, as well as these mobile operators that are your home number, in which bank you receive your salary and what is the state of your current account. So, Mrs Mandic, we believe that first of all this law, which you mentioned, we have submitted over 50 amendments then, here and I will end it, especially because the law has interfered and the state and church relations, which is absolutely unacceptable, which is what the Serbian Orthodox Church and other traditional communities have to keep track of in the way the legislator predicted. We believe that this conclusion is also unacceptable for the SRS and that all these laws should be put out of force or brought new ones to protect citizens from their rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57611	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Is there another one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who wants a word? (Yes) The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Marjana Maras. Here's my colleague, Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57612	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mrs Mandic, at the beginning of my presentation, I would remind myself of the provisions of the Law on free access to information of public importance, to regulate the right to access information of public importance at the hands of public authorities, in order to achieve and protect the interests of the public, to know and achieve the free democratic order and open society. This law also established the Commissioner for Public Information, as an independent state body, independent of the exercise of its competence and in order to exercise the right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities. The report on the implementation of the laws in the works of its jurisdiction has been submitted by the Commissioner to the National Assembly since the beginning of the year 2005 and has submitted 14 reports on the application of laws in its jurisdiction and 13 regular, one extraordinary, and of the three reports there have been discussions in the plenary. The 2018 report is the 14th annual report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and 10 is on the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. According to the Commissioner's report, the situation and events in 2018, including the relationship between the competent authorities and their representatives, say that in 2018 with the highest challenge in the work of the Commissioner, for 14 years of its existence, and at the same time and years of the most extensive work. The situation is such that the right to free access to information of public importance in Serbia is well used today, but is very difficult to achieve without the work of the Commissioner. According to the trustee's assessment, the status in the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance and the right to the protection of personal data since 2018 cannot be characterised as satisfactory. In order to protect his rights, he was told 3,346 complaints in 2018, which corresponds to the average number of complaints in the last few years, but compared to 2017, the number of complaints is lower by 10%. In 2018, the trustee resolved about 13% more complaints compared to 2017 including transferred, unfinished complaints from previous years. The largest number of complaints in the 2018 report, 1846, was issued against the ministry, other republican authorities and management organisations, although the number of requests in these bodies was significantly lower, it is still about 200 complaints more than in 2017. The appearance of so-called the silence of the administration is also present in 2018 and is slightly smaller than in 2017. It is present because authorities said in a large number of cases the report completely ignored the applicant's request or provided a negative response without argument. In 2018, authorities mostly rejected requests with a call for confidentiality of information, then for abuse of rights and for violation of privacy. Infrequently, the authorities replied that the lack of mood for the requested information could only be verified by an administrative inspection procedure. In view of the number of cases in which applicants were entitled to the number of complaints, it is concluded that, in addition to a number of obstacles to the application of the Free Access Act, the functioning of the trustee remains at about 88.91%. In my presentation, I would refer to local self-government both in the application of this and in local self-government and what we met in local self-government. Since 2004, when the Law on free access to information of public importance entered into force, this mechanism has significantly contributed to raising the level of openness and transparency in the work of the authorities and local self-government. Today I will speak first of all about the application of the provisions in the Vrbas municipality. In our midst, municipal authorities have approached this issue as a matter of human rights. At the beginning of the law, the largest number of requests for free access to information of public importance were submitted by citizens, and later, even in the past year, the largest number of requests have been submitted alongside citizens of civil society organisations, associations of citizens and legal entities. The fact that the number of requirements from year to year has increased, the largest number of requests in 2018 refers to the requirement for the delivery of information related to the field of ecology, public procurement, financing of entities, financing of media, co-financing of media content in the territory of the municipality of Vrbas. For all this time in our municipality, no request for free access to information of public importance has been denied with a call for confidentiality of information or a violation of privacy. Although, especially at the beginning of the application of the law, we had a large number of requirements relating to the delivery of personality data, such as nationality, family status and others. In such cases, with prior consent obtained, the written consent of the data subject and after receiving the consent shall be the same to the applicant. A number of applicants addressed us with the same question asking to be provided with extensive documentation. I don't want to say here that the abundance of documentation in itself, it wasn't a reason for us to restrict or deny rights, but I would like to point out that a large number of perpetrators and significant material resources have been hired to prepare these responses. Our municipality does not charge the costs that are intended to be charged and fees for the delivery of copies and materials as requested. From year to year, the number of requests for free access to information of public importance is increasing, as I said to the Commissioner's statements under other acts of the Commissioner we acted. There was no silence from the administration at the request of the authorities because at the request of the applicant or trustee, the authorities provided copies of the documents containing the requested information. A special contribution to informing citizens and strengthening transparency in the work of authorities has been achieved by publication of information on the work of local self-government authorities in co-operation with the Commissioner's service, which is regularly updated and which information is given to citizens and other entities on the work of the local self-government authority. It also sets out the competences of the authorities and paths for the exercise of the rights of users, which has significantly affected the raising of the level of transparency, openness in the work of the authorities and the achievement of the preconditions for achieving the concept of administration as a service of citizens and for obtaining information of public importance. The fact is that the adoption of the law, through the engagement of trustees and other entities, has led to a significant change in the transparency and public work of the public authorities. The high degree of efficiency in solving requires free access to information of public importance, resulting from the joint engagement of local self-government and trustees. The service of our local self-government has also achieved good and continued co-operation with the trustee's service in resolving submitted demands. The right to free access to information of public importance is increasingly being used, and the solution requires free access to information from the public importance of the trustee's advisory activity has been of paramount importance to us. In the past year, in our municipality, the number of requests submitted for free access to information of public importance has increased, and the number of complaints to the trustee has been reduced. We think it is necessary that, in the next period, I have been told by people who are engaged in local self-government and who are in charge and persons in charge of information of public importance, continue to train law enforcement entities, to facilitate their work, and to be as transparent as possible for citizens. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day, together with the resolution board's conclusion, will support the proposed report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57613	I'd like to thank my colleague, Marash. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a proposal for an act, I am experiencing a committee of directors. I don't mind that the rapporteurs of the report are part of the motion, but if you decided that the report is an act, and that the motioner is the proposer of the act, I won't defend it to you, so that we don't have any confusion like we had in 2013, 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why did the Commissioner become a conspirator? That's the basic question. The Commissioner for Public Information got his boss 14 years ago. Let me remind you, they want to be an independent regulatory body, they will. I responsibly claim that the founding situation in these independent regulatory bodies and bodies of the type trusted conspirator, the protector, that it was only a reserve component of the former regime's parties. If the head of the trustees, if a person who was a member of the three political parties came to the boss, say in East Germany, a pardon in Germany after the unification, such a person was forbidden to deal at all with politics, and certainly could not have entered an independent regulatory body. You know that members of the Communist Party in Eastern Europe have been lustrated. But the man has changed several political parties. It's his political right, but I don't know how he became a trustee? Not at all. As he became a conspirator, I know that. Because he came from a party of the former regime and when he gained the functions of an independent regulatory body, he abused the function harshly. I'll give you some examples later. Was he a member of the Social Democratic Party, some Union? Was the trustee on the party list elected MP? Yes, it is. The answer is yes. What kind of independence is that if you were a member of three parties, if you became a MP through one party, and then that party joined with another related party, then they made a third party, and then became vice president of the Assembly. Would you, Mr. Milicevic, now qualify to be a trustee? Let's choose you, it's a better salary, and you too, Mr. Marinkovic. And you, Mr. Marinkovic, can you, you're the Vice President of the Assembly, the People's MP, can you perform that function? Is that an independent regulatory body, if you're elected head of that body? Of course, the answer is no. But during the rule of the party of the former regime, they well deployed their party personnel, little in court, little in legislative, executive power, and that alleged fourth branch of the regulatory authorities and some organizations there, the rest were placed there. I even remember Boris Tadic's recommendation to get as much money as possible, says start associations, establish, so that he can finance his political party through the association additionally, and through independent regulatory bodies to win the numbers of members. That's for sure. Did the former trustee against whom the sidewalk conspired in Belgrade, bounced the sidewalk and attacked the former trustee and see what they did to his city. Look at that moral trait. You get drunk with your head, you trip, then you say, jumped the sidewalk, hit me, look what they did to my town. Look at that moral component. Come on, let's move on. You are the Vice-President of the Assembly, tomorrow you are elected Minister, you are Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because you were a member of one, two, three political parties, who have proposed you for the post, and thanks to you for being Vice-President, MP of the Assembly, you have even had the opportunity to vote, to be a minister, because as far as I remember, there are MPs who have been witnesses of that famous election. Watch out, MP, member of three parties, vice-president of the National Assembly and minister of the Serbian government become head of an independent regulatory body. It's really like that on a yellow scale, really thick yellow, 'cause they could do anything. And then, that trustee calls certain MPs a thief. He says, lying liars, because they asked something, and as far as he was concerned, he commented on the president of the National Assembly, brutally attacked, and called some MPs liars. Isn't that some political activist of the former regime party? What kind of a famous trustee, head of an independent regulatory body, who's never had enough employees, and that's what to say? And now he's only saying that on the basis of a folk MP asking whether it's true that the protector and trustee got 80,000 of the famous friends of the British, famous Serbian friends, did they get to make a model of the alarming law, so it seems to me, from the area where they are as an independent regulatory body. Did they also share the famous £80,000, which is 100,000? Look, there's a saying, when two fish at the bottom of the sea argue, you have to look behind the first stone, there's got to be some British, and since then there's been an offensive of trustees and protectors, or conspirators and protectors. The protector only protected his large salary, and the trustee, along with the protector, attacked the ruling parties. They did not do so, while these yellow, former regime party, but after the change of government, especially after the British pounds, they were sweetened to attack the ruling coalition. Is that an independent regulatory body? Did the one who listed the correct data become a lying liar and become politically targeted, as they say, the target of the one who couldn't possibly do it? The trustee filed a misapplication with me, apparently I gave up personal information, not mentioning a name, not last name, not the number of any ID, not the address, nothing. However, on the basis of a statement by the DS Commissioner, the conspirator estimated that he could file a criminal complaint using false evidence. But, look, he didn't sign that felony report. I think he gave it to a deputy. And now with the judge for the offense, I only asked that the alleged transcripts of those tweets be delivered to the judge for a violation of what he wrote in the report that there was evidence and documented evidence. Since part of that evidence was invented, he made it up harshly and did not deliver it to a criminal court, there was an obsolescence. And then the miracles on his Twitter account appeared a memo that was seduced by the Trustee, and he is no longer the Trustee. So the rest of that yellow elite that was placed nicely with the trustee, so the activists, the backup DS found fit to give the former trustee the decision of the misdemeanor court on obsolescence, and then, suddenly, they didn't provide evidence that exactly what they wrote in the application, and they were used with a statement from the press conference DS, and then suddenly, on his Twitter warrant, a document from the trust. And now I'm asking the Commissioner for information of public importance? Who's going to deliver information of public importance to me? How did that happen? Who's gonna control the controller? How did that come up on a Twitter warrant from the former trustee when he was no longer a trustee? Because his party colleagues are so-called An independent regulatory body delivered it to him and tried to present it as, here you see him being protected by a misdemeanor court. And why didn't they deliver the evidence? When it wasn't enough, they filed criminal charges for the same thing. They'd judge me five times for the same thing. They filed criminal charges, again describing a press conference with DS without evidence or copies of evidence they claim to have made up. If that's what the trustee was like, and he was, I'm not surprised he tripped on the streets and tried his self-indulgence to make political capital for Gilas and his crew. Now that I ask the Commissioner for information of public importance. You know when I'm gonna get an answer? Never in the world. I'll ask where it's registered, it's information of public importance, where is the N1 television registered? The one where the trustee hasn't brought the bed in yet, the trustee I was talking about, he's about to bring in the bed and the fridge. Don't come out. So the MPs' club is parked, so there's a deal on how they're going to go on "N1" TV with their comrade, the famous one who can drink a lot of wine, is from that airport, and when they get a nice deal, then this is how it goes on "N1" TV and hits the ruling coalition that's guilty, I guess, and because the Americans haven't gotten to Mars yet. I don't understand what we've done to them? I claim that this is a democratic state and that it has maximum respect for independent regulatory bodies. We were just responding to their accusations. We respected them until they respected us. What am I supposed to do to get information of public importance, why is Nova S TV not registering? Why is it piratey? Why is it formally registered in Luxembourg? Why is it lying that she is re-emitting a programme from Luxembourg, when a Luxembourg operator claims that such a programme in Serbian is not being broadcast there. What happens if all our media want to register falsely and don't answer for anything? You can't sue Nova S or N1, they're not registered as electronic media in Serbia. You can't sue them for nothing. I have a memo from their lawyer. We are not a media service provider in the Republic of Serbia, his clients cannot sue that media for anything. That media doesn't pay any broadcasting fees. That media doesn't pay anything to Sokoya. Those media don't pay for anything at all. All that domestic television is paying for, these fake, pirated Luxembourg television or Gilassovia, the schools owned by Gilas, the School, David Petreus, former head of the CIA. Who's going to tell me it was David Petreus, the head of the CIA, who owns 20 fake cross-border channels? Who's going to tell me that information is of public importance, because subscribers pay SBB's subscription? How much "N1" television, fake cross-border, registered in Luxembourg, how much does "N1" TV get from "SBB" a month? Home TV channels that use free of charge don't get anything. They live off the commercials. They don't get anything from "SBB", and then SBB plays commercials on their fake cross-border television, against the Advertising Act. Who's going to get me that information of public importance? Who will provide me with information of public importance, how much Nova S, which is also registered in Luxembourg, gets from the SBB? How much money does that pump? How is this "SBB" lost, covering twice the market of Telekom, and Telekom is making a profit of 150m euros and paying into the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Who will answer that Teodorovic, the famous academic, is asking to move from regular Telekom to "SBB", which does not pay anything in the budget? A man who receives a salary from the budget asks that subscribers check out of Telekom, a state-owned firm, and move on to a private Sholak and Gilas cable operator who pays nothing. How has that been worth 2.6 billion in Serbia since 2015? What kind of shops are these? Is there money laundering in there? Here, I ask the trustee that question, to tell me why these TVs aren't registered? Why do they get money and don't get homework? Why are they playing home commercials? Is it true they don't broadcast those programs in Luxenburg? Is that what 13 SVOD channels do? Does "New" do that? Is that what "N1" TV does? To tell me do they really think Ivan Ivanovic is re-emitting his show from Luxembourg? That that's what Olja Beckovic does, that guests are in a studio in Luxenburg? Here, let me hear from the Commissioner for Public Information, let them tell me if they think that Yugoslavia Ćosic is running a show from Luxenburg? Was I in their studio twice in New Belgrade? Is New Belgrade the territory of Luxembourg or is it the territory of the Republic of Serbia in which the media should be registered as everyone else? Does the Commissioner think, do the other independent regulatory bodies think that all televisions in this market should have equal conditions? Why do we have to punish domestic channels? Come on, let's have the trustee, in another report, answer that. And, please, don't call me a fake thief anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57615	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we discuss the report submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection of 25 March 2019, the report relating to 2018, we cannot look at the content that we have received as MPs in this report, but also on the history of relations and the Office that delivered this report and the former Commissioner himself, it is about Rodoljub Sabic, with the National Assembly, with its committees, with other institutions in the country and we cannot look back, first of all, on what it is, a strong seal on the work of this Office, or this institution in the previous period, which is, of course, a personal former Commissioner. When we talk about this report, about these relationships, we can't help but think, first of all, of him, of his personal relationship and of everything that we are in this room, and not just in this room, we've judged it absolutely unacceptable when it comes to relations with institutions. This story should most likely begin where his work on the head of the trustee institution was about to end. Somewhere around that period, it ended with a picture like this. This is what you remember. This is what the other Messenger of the people, the Messenger of Risticevic, spoke of today. A picture of someone being injured in public shows that his head is bleeding, and there's a tenorous text that reads - What they've done with my work. In this way, it is suggested that someone was the object of the attack, that someone was exposed to violence, is also suggested that it has a terrible connection to the devastion of the city of Belgrade or to the devastation in any other way. This is a picture, a picture and an opportunity, of the kind of relationship that we have in this room, but once again, not just in this room, repeatedly referred to as absolutely unacceptable, public harassment. You can see what they did to me, and you know what they did, and you know all the good things that, in order to get the dust up, to get some hack back on track, and to get it over with again, like every time these and these attacks ended -- by making it clear that a man fell himself, a face scratched, and trying to make a political story out of it, a new platform for calculating with those he designed for those he has to deal with everywhere, in every way and on every topic. And this, a picture like this, is absolutely a picture, and a picture and an opportunity, of everything we've been dealing with on the subject of relations with Mr. Sabic's National Assembly. His handwriting is visible in this report that we received. His handwriting is clear as soon as you open that report. You're already on the front page of the next grade, and it's bold, to see it well, that no one can pass - In the last four years (2014-2017). The reports of the Commissioner were not the subject of consideration in the National Assembly. "They were not the subject of consideration in the National Assembly." This is, first of all, a complete lie. So, I won't surprise anyone if I now share information with the citizens who are watching this, with any of the MPs present or with the representatives of this institution, the hallway entering this great hall has that extension called the central hall. Both on the left and on the right of that hall, and on the parter level and on the first floor there are committee halls. These committee halls are located in the House of the National Assembly. In these halls, committees are held as working bodies of the National Assembly. When reports are discussed there, and reports have been discussed, and even in this text it says, both in 2014 and 2015 and in 2016 and in 2017, in the National Assembly, on its working bodies, and it even says which committees discussed on these topics, it was debated by the National Assembly, it was done by its working bodies, it was done by the MPs of this National Assembly. And it is a complete non-sension that someone now says when any representative of any body in the state proposes or selects a Assembly board -- it was not elected by the National Assembly. When someone presented his report, he said he had no opportunity to speak before the National Assembly. So this is a complete lie. But it is, once again, a picture and opportunity, like the one I started with, a relationship to the National Assembly. And you don't just look at that relationship. It was Mr. Sabic himself not once, but many times, repeating this -- he will not discuss the National Assembly of my reports. He spoke this lie publicly. Even in this report that you gave us, in this for 2018, clearly states that several times in talks with different foreign representatives, making it possible for the representatives of institutions, some other actors, that they did not want the National Assembly to consider the report. And who's on those big shots, because all the sessions of those committees are public, just like the public and this session here, to speak on behalf of the trustees about their reports? Who's on them? Where was that? Were those videos broadcast on the air, as they say, live, so could any television that she wanted, if she wanted, like this session today, to broadcast them in her program? Of course they are. Are they still on the National Assembly site today? Of course. Is it all full of media every time? Of course. And now what does that mean? That it didn't happen? No, rather it means that someone wants to send such a message, and then it seems to say it at meetings with different people who come to Serbia from other countries or from other institutions. The attitude towards the National Assembly, literally through the words of Rodoljub Šabić, is also seen through his grades. I quote: "The National Assembly, although it is its obligation by law and by the Rules of Procedure, will not consider my reports. Not the president of the National Assembly -- he directly accuses Mrs Gojkovic -- although it is her obligation by law and by the Rules of Procedure, to consider my reports." Once again, complete untruth. The second question - what does it have to do with what the law regulates that the role, jurisdiction, part-time work of the trustee or Shabic is? What difference does it make? There's nothing. So it's absolutely unfounded, and in this law that's mentioned in that Rules of Procedure that's being mentioned. On the subject of relation to the National Assembly, let's move on. Is it or is it not true that every time, but absolutely every time the Commissioner addressed the committee responsible, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, with any request, with any need, is it or is it not true that he has received the consent of the Committee every time? He's asking for help for his personnel plan - he's getting consent. He's asking to be granted something - he's getting consent, he's getting approved. Everything, but absolutely everything he asked, everything, absolutely everything he got from that board. And what kind of answer do we get from the other side, what relationship does Shabic have with the National Assembly? He says no relationship, no co-operation with the National Assembly. And that means there's no cooperation when it comes to meeting you every time every whim of yours, every desire, is heard. Does that mean there's no cooperation? Or is this going to be something else? That it was some kind of policy again, that he was trying to run away from, but unwittingly and unknowingly, every time. And what does it look like, to ask a question like that, when every time you get yourself to meet and the board approves what you're looking for, that you say, and that's what you said in this report here -- the decision of the competent assembly board on the possibility of the trustee increasing the number of employees, in line with budgets, is without practical significance? What does this look like? Look, he gets it, he gets it, and then he sends a report saying it doesn't mean anything, and I don't care, it's without any practical meaning to me. This is impudence. That kind of relationship, I'm talking about relations with institutions, according to the National Assembly, according to its committees, is absolutely unacceptable. And that's not the end of it. We could talk for a long time today on the subject of all possible and impossible situations and examples, which we could personally witness, and on the subject of this kind of unacceptable relationship. But where, in any rule, in any case, should it be in some internal, trustee institution, the right of Shabic to comment on the decisions of the Assembly committees, so as to say - the Assembly board must or must not make such a conclusion, or should it or should not, be careful, to make a statement by voting on any amendment? And he was doing it. He publicly gave himself the luxury in the media and the space to give the grades. Imagine, the Assembly Committee turned down this or that amendment? Imagine, the Assembly Committee has been discussing amendments for so long or so long? What does that look like? Is there anywhere, in any provision of the law he has the right to comment on these things and to make those assessments? Of course there isn't, and there's more to the answer than clear. When we say it - it's politics, we say it for those reasons, and it has nothing to do with the law. There's nothing to do with the security duties. And it's not just the attitude to the National Assembly. This relationship, this type of relationship is reflected in relation to any state institution Mr. Sabic disagreed with at any time. Shall we do it in a row? The prosecution of what looks like and what does this have to do with the law and work when Sabic says – The prosecution is grotesque and tragic? Is it his job to give this kind of assessment, to place them in public? He did so on April 27, 2017, to assess the prosecution in this way. So this is not just below every level and taste, this is absolutely unacceptable and that's not all. He said other wonderful things to the D.A. Among other things, it seems to me that it's either cartoon or that these people are cartoons. The Anti-Corruption Agency, same at bizarre. Those are his words. Whether it's a proper relationship with institutions or whether it's something else, because it has nothing to do with the law or his work. This is an assessment of an institution absolutely unacceptable. He has an obligation to inform the public, as he has an obligation to inform the National Assembly, but he seems to forget what it means, to inform the National Assembly, not to judge it and not to dictate it to it, not to her, but to her at least to insult her. The public should be informed of what his basic job is, not what he thinks, how he can better offend the Anti-Corruption Agency or the D.A.'s office. And not only are they, the problem is relations with the ministries on a number of occasions and not because some ministry likes or doesn't like to hear something, but because it has nothing to do with the professional relationship to work again. The problem is public harassment. The problem is when you're allowed such a luxury to say something like this. This is his assessment of the government's work – there's nothing more terrible than arrogant ignorance in action. So Rodoljub Sabic allowed himself the luxury of commenting on the government this way. The government is a blatant ignorance in action. To question journalists, and with ignorance you mentioned neglect, and also evil intentions, to add – yes, in the game all three have been kept. What does it have to do with the law, what does it have to do with his work, to say that the government is an example, a representative of arrogant ignorance, so it's not enough, so it's also negligence and the image of evil intentions. Imagine, the Serbian government is the image of evil intentions. He did it on 27.9.2018. This is, once again, politics, it's not law, it's not law and it's not a professional relationship. Counting with political parties and political representatives, functionholders, there's only as much as you want. What does it say about people who are members of the ruling party? They're at the level of simple, all arguments devoid, at the level of the simple. The moment he dealt with the prosecutor's office because the prosecution is trying to keep up with the fact that what's in the professional file of a Serb military is protected information and has to stay that way, and that's probably the way in the whole world, whatever anyone thinks, and as much as anyone is trying to protect this or that interest, we know who, those people who are trying to load up on members of the Serbian Army, are some kind of brand of war crimes offenders. Everyone has some interest in dealing with different things, but they can't insist on the trustee opening up military files for people who wore uniforms with honor. Every time the Prophet asks for such a thing and receives a reply from the Prosecutor's Office, you cannot ask for it, it collapses on them, and he calls them, you see what it is. And then when people say -- but you can't act like that and you can't insist that, for example, the identity of the prosecutor who handles the "Savamale" case, because that puts someone in danger, then he says -- and, well, whoever's looking for it, he's tragic, whoever says I'm wrong and I'm wrong, he's tragic. Well, he says he's tragic and the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and the president of the National Assembly. What does this have to do with the law? What does this have to do with any professional relationship to your work? It's, once again, politics. If it were politics, it doesn't have to be told to you by any of the people that Rodoljub Sabic has dealt with in this way and in this way. That's what those people who are thrilled about this kind of his performances and this kind of his grades say. "Time" since 2 June 2016, says Sabic -- due to these and such allegations, along with Jankovic, the Protector of Citizens at the time, is a Bekow couple of civil society. They are proud of this kind of activity and this kind of relationship towards the institutions and the National Assembly and the President of the Republic and the various ministries and representatives of political parties, and above all SNS, proud people and say – they are our refugee couple. On our behalf and for our gross, they pump a campaign against the state and especially against the people who are SNS political representatives. They say, "This is politics." And these two somehow tried to escape those grades, but they didn't, you know, defend themselves very much, so it ended up with open participation in political activities. He was dealing with the MPs in particular. Everything is absolutely true what Mr. Risticevic said, absolutely correct. For him, he allowed himself this luxury Shabic to say he was a lying liar. And not only did he say it, but he confirmed it afterwards. He says that, yes, I did, it's true that I called Marijana Rističević a lying liar. That wasn't enough, but then he said that Aleksandar Martinovic was a halftron and that he shouldn't be trusted because there's no human qualities. Do you know why, to remind everyone together? Because we pointed out that a million and three hundred fifty thousand dinars were spent on different trips at the time, and that was true. Then Sabic defended himself, shouted - no, no, it's not true, for me it's only 500,000, and a million and 300, it's for the whole institution, I'm not the same as the whole institution. So what happens now? It's not just this hall, is it, or is it just this hall? When considering congregation committees, does the congregation or does it not? When only Shabic travels, does it count or does it all travel together? But that the amount is right in the money, so he and those who took it to defend it have admitted it. He was very well and successfully defended, I must confess. "N1", Belgrade, 27.9. says -- in fact, it is that money, but it is not in his name. Sam Šabić gets attached to it and says – that's funny, what I spent, he says. He admits to himself 500 and some thousands of dinars, a few thousand euros. He says what I've spent, it's a few times less than what every MP spends on a one-year level for official travel. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, think about yourself, do you feel like someone who, Sabic says, spends every year something that is the order of tens or tens of thousands of euros? So, in order for his few thousand that he admits to himself to be several times bigger, you spend tens of thousands of euros each year on official travels. Each of you knows whether it's true or not. Does that make any sense? Does this make any sense? Again, what does this have to do with work, what does it have to do with a professional relationship or a relationship with institutions? This is absolutely pure politics, besides being a brutal lie. When Shabic says – it is wrong to say that someone spends more than he does, and then defends himself. He says it's not right because that's what a target is drawn on a man's forehead. When someone reads it, says Shabic, he could come and fire a bullet. What does this mean, in this way, to accuse the MPs? Then what does this mean? Then does anyone who says this want something like this to happen to them? I absolutely refuse to accept that, but this is all just not a serious and responsible relationship to work. Speaking of those costs that turned out to be absolutely accurate, this report that we've been getting for a whole year and this report when the cost table turns around, I just wanted to see what to do with that million and 300,000 dinars. This report says -- out of budget funds, travel costs of two million and 118,000 dinars. So, not that it's true, but even more, two million and 118,000 dinars from the budget. No foreign donations have been made, but it is from the neutral assets of the previous year another 370,000. What was who lying here? Is it because he does not like this condition, which he himself has put in the report and sent to the National Assembly someone to say, "You are messengers of a lying thief and a half-tron, and you spend much more than I do?" Who spent so many times more than I've read in a year? When we talk about these means, he then considered it absolutely unacceptable that the MPs pointed out that the cost for this type of placement of political messages of 200,000 dinars for which any press conferences are unacceptable, and he says – you have no right to comment, it is not so. I take this report again for 2018 and try to see how much it actually spends on similar purposes. Here it says - the services of informing millions and 176,000 dinars. Well, is that less than 200,000 dinars? A million and 17,000 dinars, I wouldn't say it's less. The entire budget has not been realised. Even today, we have listened to the Commissioner’s torment because he lacks the resources or people, all of whom were approved by the responsible congregation committee. But he says, "Trouble tortures, not enough capacity, not enough resources." Is it written here – no budget realised, no funds spent, and no funds spent on wages? And as far as the most expensive, state-of-the-art technique is concerned, I'm not going in there. Let's buy the best possible, they'll serve the institution, it's nobody's private, and they'll use it, I hope, people for good and smart things. I want to understand everything, and the servers that are worth several thousand euros and routers, I won't comment on it, but one thing I can't understand and I would very much like to have someone explain it to me – how and how is the purchase of the Apple iPhone phone black, 180,000 dinars? What does that have to do with work? What could it not have done on any other phone by the trustee or by someone who works with the trustee? (President: I thank you. Just, please, for a few more seconds, let me finish. So, I don't understand. What's that phone for? What's the excuse for 180,000 dinars for something like this? In the end, where is this now? Who is this for and what is it for, and it is for the work of the trustee? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this man allowed himself that luxury to say – Serbia is on the FATF blacklist and therefore threatens to sanction us. That kind of politics, as far as I know, was allowed only by Vuk Jeremic in this country, and only Vuk Jeremic said it in those words. The one who yesterday, the day before yesterday, saw it, boasted and chuckled what he was doing to Serbia-Montenegro. It's the same excuse about Shabic. When you take all this, you cannot say no. Well, it's politics. It ends with this story about this photograph and the state that it wasn't of this, of course, nothing, nor of these great insults and accusations. In the end, Sabic said himself – I will not give up politics. He didn't tell us anything new. He's going to do what he said, with a lawyer. That everything comes to the right place and that kind of politics can't do without the right society, eventually informs us, how different, but still, via Twitter. He is today a lawyer service provider of CRTA, whose leader, director, as they call it, here he is, standing next to Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Gilas Dragan in front of the presidency when they broke the fence, and then stormed into the presidency building, then dealt with the police. So it's that kind of society. If that's the case, so be it, at least we don't play any more hiding. Whoever wants to deal with politics and who wants to at least deal politically with us, feel free to do so, but let him not hide behind any institution, let him not try to represent himself any sacrifice, and at least not to wonder, as Sabic put it, what they did with his town. If he's really interested, I'll leave this material with a nice writing about what's going on with Belgrade, how it's going on, how it's progressing, so if he's interested in getting to know the content, he'll find that Belgrade is developing just as Serbia is, that Belgrade is progressing, that we're building our own state as we build our institutions. Just because we care about building them that way, and we're going to take care of this the right way, which means, as you heard, you certainly understood very well, all the opposite of what Shabic did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57617	Thank you. Since there are no registered presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word, and for the discussion of the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57618	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of data protection of a person as an idea of the availability of information of public importance is the very important assets of modern civilization. What this country is seeking through legislation, but also with the intention of finally becoming part of our administrative culture and practices, and not just one legal obligation that we face through prism, therefore, necessity... In this respect, I would like to welcome everything that has been done so far, first of all, on the legislative plan and, as I have pointed out many times, we have clearly caught a step in the adoption of good laws and using our own experiences and experiences of others, but certainly the clear intention and determination of this Parliament, but also all the key political entities in this Parliament in terms of, therefore, achieving legal assumptions and legal assumptions and for these objectives, so there are minimal problems. However, in fact, our theme today is the implementation of these laws. There must obviously be even more important work to be done here. What I have noticed, and on the ground itself, is a number of examples where we have cases of inability to implement certain legal regulations, i.e. various obstructions regarding the implementation of these legislations, and I am afraid that we also have examples of where there may be certain details in the legislative legislation regarding the implementation of certain legal norms. Our most recent example is what happened last year with a media funding contest in the area of Novi Pazar, where we had, therefore, that the information about this competition was not transparent and publicly available. Sandzak TV addressed the Protector and a certain procedure was initiated, irregularities were identified, measures imposed, imposed on the responsible party to implement those measures. The party concerned has ignored or refused to implement these measures, and here we come to a kind of blind street where we already have a prior declaration of certain court cases, i.e. the highest court cases in terms of jurisdiction, so that we have a leprosy from the basic court according to other court cases that are protected from the jurisdiction of implementing these tasks and we come to the situation of the infirmities of these institutions, but also other institutions, i.e. mechanisms designed for the implementation of legislative regulations. So, definitely, we've faced this issue in a certain space, but it's not just about solving this problem. It is likely to experience an epilogue through the decisions of the Administrative Court, and it was obviously the only legal remedy, but in this case it is a question of the purpose of the existence of the mechanism of this protection and of the inability to apply legal regulations, i.e. the lack of a duress for the implementation of decisions, i.e. the implementation of decisions, i.e. orders, which are given. So the intensity of this exposure isn't solving this problem, but I'm actually using this as an example to point out this lack. We have a lot of examples and I don't want to waste my time on it right now, but in any case, we still have as parliament as well as executive bodies to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57619	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not there. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go, colleague Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57620	The esteemed chairman, respected guests, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, for the protection of the right to access information of public importance is responsible for information of public importance and protection of personal data. As the name itself clearly indicates, it should be someone of trust, someone entrusted to protect this right and make sure it is respected. He's someone who intercedes between the public and the individual and the authorities. In other words, to make it clear to the citizens, if you look for some information that is owned or controlled by a public authority and you do not get an answer or are not satisfied with the same, then you will refer your complaint to the Commissioner. This name applies to both this independent state body and the person on its forehead. The trustee is impartial, objective, rights defender and independent of all other state bodies. That's why we say the Commissioner is an independent and independent organ. The Function of the Commissioner for Public Information has been regulated by the Law on free access to information of public importance which, among other things, regulates how the Trustee is elected at the head of the same-named authority. This independent authority is responsible for protecting the right to free access to information, while at the same time protecting the right, privacy of personal data, a little confusing, public rights and the right to privacy, the right to use data on citizens' personalities is used only for the purposes provided by law, and for other purposes only with the prior consent of citizens whose data is concerned. The right to access information of public importance at the disposal of public authorities for the purpose of achieving and protecting the public to know, and the achievement of the free democratic order and open society, is regulated by the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. The information of public importance, within the meaning of this law, in Article 2 is the information available to the public authority, created in the work or in relation to the work of the public authority, contained in a particular document, and relates to everything the public has a legitimate interest in knowing. The rights under this law belong to all under equal conditions without discrimination, regardless of nationality, residence, gender, race, religion, national and ethnicity. The same law has been defined and in which case the applicant is not allowed access to information of public importance. The Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data implements two laws – the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. This year, it ends 15 years after the establishment of a trustee institution, and through earlier reports, we have followed the work and achievements, as well as the problems with which this independent body is meeting. The commissioner is elected by the National Assembly, to whom he is obliged to submit an annual report on his work. The report before us shows that in 2018 it was record by volume of work, i.e. by number of cases. More than 14,000 cases have been solved from the area of free access to information of public importance, but also from the personal data protection sector, as very often these two functions cross and oppose each other. On the one hand, you are required to enable access to data, but you are also obliged to protect personality data, so that you are not unduly available in a way that offends a person and enters the personal life of an individual. The fact is that according to a report that is before us, the Trustee of Happiness with staff and material problems that slow down the work of this institution and the Trustee obtains a ban on employment as one of the limiting factors, as well as for the Trustee, as well as other budget users, a maximum number of employees apply. The essence of the trustee institution is to help citizens and organisations who do not receive an answer on their own request, which all public funds users are obliged to give, through their activities and legal measures, to help citizens to exercise their rights before the competent authorities. In essence, the trustee can be seen as some kind of public labour control mechanism, the users of public funds, whether local self-government, public authorities, public services or other bodies and organisations. The law stipulates that local self-governments also have the authority to provide information of public importance, which concerns the work of local authorities and local services to improve the public of work, authorities of local self-government and state bodies, or the whole public administration that must be the service of citizens. Unfortunately, it happens that because of some personal interest, citizens, NGOs or other information seekers abuse that right, such as the competent authorities often avoid giving information of public importance, which concerns their work. It is obvious that even 15 years of practice has not yet created a culture of obligation to seek and provide information of public importance. So the search engine and the information provider are often viewed as two sides in the dispute. Of course, there is no need for this kind of relationship, because the Trustee in every democratic society should be an institution that is a mediator between citizens and the institutions of the system that needs to ease and address conflict situations relating to the demand and availability of all information of public importance that promotes the public work of state authorities, and thus the quality of services provided by state authorities and public services to citizens. In doing so, state authorities should not view the Commissioner as a hunter of their mistakes, but rather as an associate who should contribute to creating better co-operation with citizens. The trustee should also, in the exercise of his, the law of established function, indicate in an appropriate way the problems facing citizens in the exercise of their rights. Citizens, Commissioners and state authorities are three sides not to be in conflict, but a number of participants who need to contribute on the one hand to the exercise of the legal rights of citizens, and on the other hand the legal work of state authorities. I would also refer to the conclusion of the committee responsible from which it is also seen that in order to establish the full role of the Commissioner, it is also necessary to implement certain amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance, which we as a parliamentary group of SPS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57621	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57622	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, are very important these reports are very important laws that treat these two categories, especially the Law on the Protection of Information and Personal Data. Of course, the implementation of this law often depends on where personal data are being misused. It is certain that in peripheral areas we have much more abuse and much less reaction to both the trustees and the competent institutions in terms of punishing those who commit such abuses. I will mention the case from 2018, when the elections for the Bosniak National Council, when, in just one day, Mr. Ugljanin's list in the Sjenica court, without bringing people, abused several hundred people, or their personal data, in order to verify and submit that list, even though we filed a complaint because it was neither physically possible to do it, nor was it done at all, simply someone misused the personal data of certain people and thus handed over such a list. However, none of the state authorities came forward, nor did they seriously treat this situation. Unfortunately, it's not a lonely case. So, especially when it comes to handing over lists in different types of choices, we often have data abuses, especially in those places where they verify these data are done in courts, not in the notary institution. So we've been hostages to this kind of behavior for three decades in some smaller environments, especially the Shadows, especially in Tutin. Of course, very often we also have abuses when it comes to certain media, personal data, let's say it's very interesting that a big heifer has been raised these days because Yugoslavia's Cosic, as reportedly some e-mails have been breached. We have reported, filed criminal charges for literally recording, falsifying, stealing personal data from certain political officials as early as 2016, 2017, and never by any authority, although there are criminal charges, has not responded to it, nor have it been misused in any way, although certain political centres of power, which govern certain media in the most rigid way, have abused personal data or penetrated certain electronic media in which data from their political opponents are. Of course, we are aware that the interest of those living in the central parts of Serbia is different, but it would be good if the trustee, including other authorities, were equally treating the entire state of Serbia, because I am convinced that something like that happened in Belgrade, let's say someone misused several hundred people, their personal data, in order to verify a list in some elections and to make it visible and naked, would certainly be working by investigative authorities, would work with judicial and judicial authorities, and would not be silent with the trustee or the Citizens' Protector. Of course, it happened in Sjenica, in one small place and it happened in elections for national councils. It was directed by Mr. Ugljanin, who apparently had some kind of support, protection, I don't know who, or that is, part of what we were talking about yesterday, about the corruption of certain parts of the judicial and prosecutorial systems. We have not yet had an epilogue, nor any public advertising on this issue, we do not believe that we will either have, but therefore we draw attention and attention to the representatives of the trust institutions, but also to all competent state authorities, that at least in the future such abuses, particularly personal data, will not be or be as little as possible, in order to simply succeed in having equal status of all citizens and of all people in terms of protecting their personal identity and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57623	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57624	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable gentlemen of this very important institution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are today discussing and discussing the report, right at the beginning, in general, that I believe that the report is very good, with possibly certain objections. What's the big deal? I think there's even a bit of a political tone in one piece. It probably has consequences since the Commissioner, let's say ex, Mr. Sabic, has already found a situation where the trustee institution was in some way, according to counterpart Risticevic, the former regime's reserve power. I really think so, however, given that Mr. Sabic was a member of the three parties in the meantime and vice-president of the National Assembly, and he was also Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and imagine when he came to the Commissioner for such a person. However, while I am at it, let me say that he has made one statement, I will quote, quote, "The government could collapse and set up a frontal institution of the Trustees, a function of the Trustee," finished the quote. Therefore, it will not bring down that institution of the Commissioner, Mr Sabic, but everything will do to raise this institution to one higher level, to make it even more independent, independent state institution, or body and in its work, but to improve the overall democratic processes in our country, and all for the sake of our citizens. Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, embezzled 15 million dinars from the Republika Srpska budget. That's not what I'm saying, the Board of Monitoring, Human Rights and the fight against corruption, that's the problem. That's why he's been reporting very often, but he's never given a reason for this number. Shabic, instead of explaining where your big money is, he claimed to be being led against him by a hickey. So it was kind of his defense mechanism. Even his party colleague once, let's say, come on coalition, Goran Jesic accused him of refusing to explain where that money was. The Council for Monitoring, Human Rights and the fight against corruption argues that the Commissioner, Mr. Sabic, illegally employed this institution of the Commissioners. So these are very serious accusations etc. Furthermore, he claimed that someone attacked him on Sremska Street, if you remember, that someone else tripped him and broke the “tintar, ” as the people say, his head was broken. However, police found there was no attack. Then why did he say that? Sabic abused this event to run a campaign against the state. That's the point. You've been informed of the police report that there was no one near him. The footage showed no one was near him. Now, you see, the question is how did he trip? There are, in my opinion, two ways. The first is that he was "drinking," the people said in the jargon, "he was doing well" and the second, really, he tripped himself. Because if you saw him in the video, he was wearing a cell phone, and besides, when he walks, he puts his foot behind his foot, the people say it in the jargon, "swallows." So the other reason I don't really see it, and the footage showed it. He knew very often that he was abusing this function. Let me finally say that it is no wonder from Mr. Sabic, looking at his political activity before he came to that post and looking at him and his colleagues and coalition partners. Nothing they are better than this coalition now the Alliance for Serbia, and before the DOS. What about them? Let me finally say two or three sentences about him and them, because they worked together. Dragan Gilas, what about this man? In a people called the Gicky Mafia, everything's said in that, that one word says everything. Vuk Jeremic, a people called the Wolf descendant, who has damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by various corrupt actions for a substantial sum, otherwise one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, and you saw his statements back a few days for Serbia-Montenegro, not to repeat that. Janko Vesenovic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, in a people called Janko Stanocrat, had no face, but stole the apartment of Milici Bajji from Obrovec on 9 Kurjakovic Street, although he was not a refugee, etc. Bosko Obradovic, I better not talk about him, respected citizens of Serbia, but I will remind you, and I will always remind you, every time, he has raided the RIK and attacked members of the RIK. Is it true, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? He raided the municipality of Pećinci, raided Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic at a meeting of the Administrative Committee, raided the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, raided a police station in Guca, raided a journalist "Pinka", attempted entry into REM, sought, believed or not, the shooting of the president of the Republic and Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic and attempted to invade Serbia's presidency. All of you, respected citizens, saw it was true. He asked the military to carry out a coup, raid the RTS, etc. What he asked the military to carry out a coup falls under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, members from 305 to 321, and I'm surprised what the state's prosecutor's office is doing and what doesn't initiate the procedure. Dusan Petrovic, a people called Dule Krakovac, is clear to you, was Minister of Agriculture, 500,000 cows, the total fund of the Republic of Serbia, ordered 250,000 cows for a year to be slaughtered. Marinika Tepic, an associate of Sabic, called the flying dove, lays in one party at night, wakes up in another party the next day. Milojko Pantic, what to say about it, in a people known as the crazy one, that moral gromada, a dead drunk driving a car, caused an accident on Brank's bridge, escaped, respected citizens, as you heard, and drove in the opposite direction. Of course the police arrested him, took him to the laundromat. That's what he accused, believe it or not, the president of the state, of who else to take. I was right when I said at a session in this high house that Milojko Pantic, called crazy, was drunk, and that means in translation, he's an ordinary drunk. Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pishoi, said without shame and shame that, I quote, "he will piss on Alexander Vukic's grave," a quote concluded. About him is best said by his colleague, this is my favorite quote, because Biljana Srbanovic really speaks of him, and I quote: "The unwashed, lying Sergei. Now, that's your leader. He's always been a sneaky liar, he's always licked me, he's been a gold medal in getting in his ass, he's always lied, he's always smelled, he's always grabbed for money, a meal and a drink. He was never right, he always cheated on his colleagues," finished quote, January 20, 2019. Now, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Zoran Lutovac, this is the new president of the DS, the people are already calling him a stray. You know why? The people estimate he's not for politics, and he really isn't. He's a good scientific worker, and for politics, I think he really didn't, and the people really gave him now, right in the people of Zoran Lutovac called the stray. In the end, let me say for these protests what Nikola Kojo, an actor to whom, come on, I still think he's a good actor. He said on 4 February 2019, I quote - if protests fail to leave this country, the quote is completed. The same actor Nikola Kojo said on 10 May 2019, meaning only three months later and explained why the protests failed and she says, quote – people slowly realize that the protests from the beginning of the end were led by censors with the help of various half-worlds, half-journalists and works of students who believed them, finished quote. I pray to an respected actor because I really, I say, he is a decent man, to leave this country, to realize his mission since 4 February 2019. And finally, the respected Mr. Svetislav Bashar for them said, who was a member of the DS, quote – said that on May 22, gentlemen, in 2019, quote DS is a self-administrative community of mules and thieves, finished quote. Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57625	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57626	I thank the chairman. Dear gentlemen of the Commissioner's Office for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. We are today considering this report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Dear Mrs. Mandic, I expected a slightly more complex report from you. This report has a lot of pages, so I thought you guys would be the ones to tax on what you've done. You didn't do it, you probably have your reasons, so I will interpret this report in my own way, first of all what the Republic of Serbia has done, and then what the Commissioner for Information has done in public importance, Mr Sabic, who is now retired. The basic role of the Trustee is in line with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and its objective is to protect, promote the rights prescribed by this Act, as well as to monitor the legality of the processing of personal data by public authorities authorities and all other entities dealing with the processing of personality data. Ten years after the adoption of the 2008 Personal Data Protection Act, a new law was also passed in 2018, and we are proud of it. From the point of view of international law and international relations, the harmonisation of national legislation in the area of protection of personal data with EU law is an international – a legal obligation that Serbia has accepted with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Serbia, as well as other countries that have EU candidate status, is expected to lead foreign and internal policy in line with EU policy and legal assets, as our Republic has done with our president. Also, Serbia as a Member State of the Council of Europe participates in the creation of European rights, human rights, and human rights standards are expressed among other things in the European Court of Human Rights rulings, which constitute part of the internal legal order as a general accepted rule of international law. I have to read this, because this is what they're writing in the report, and I really need to say for the people's work what it says in this report. Of course, I'm not authorized, but I'll speak as a Parliament of People. Several years back, EU and Council of Europe's activities have been significantly intensified in the area of personal data protection rights. The Republic of Serbia is everything required of it, given that we are an EU accession country, and now let's see what the gentleman who until recently was the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection has done. First of all, the Commissioner for Public Information Mr. Rodoljub Sabic led, unfortunately, a cold campaign against ministers, the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and that he was falsely represented as an independent state body. Shabic is a political figure. It shouldn't be like that. It was advertised and this personality was advertised on all the laws and in an extremely negative way, unfortunately, distorting and falsifying what was happening in the National Assembly. Mr. Sabic received without competition a large number of people in his service, past the law. Sabic said he is as an independent body without the obligation to call a labour-reception contest, but the Law on civil servants stipulates that there is an obligation to advertise an internal or public competition. Unfortunately, Shabic has no evidence of a competition. 33m dinars of state money have been spent to hire people in the trustee's service, and among the contracts concluded is the one with the wife of money supplier Vuk Jeremic. Sabic was nine press conferences, when he brutally attacked ministers and MPs and slandered his own state, so there is inflagrant evidence, of which I simply state what was done, spent close to 208,000 dinars. I think that money could have been done something much better, to get clinic equipment, to get some school supplies instead of muddying the Republic of Serbia, ministers, government and Mr. Alexander Vukic. The man chosen by this assembly allegedly protects information from public importance and makes available citizens attacked his own state, campaigned in a senseless way against almost every minister, against the president of the Republic, the Prime Minister, MPs. I don't think that's right and it'll never happen again. An independent state body is an independent state body and should remain. Let's just remember in 2017 when Mr. Sabic said that the mass of citizens, now I don't know what citizens are but the mass certainly isn't them and that certain politicians think of the opposition they want him to highlight the 2018 bid when the city elections were and that he is running as mayor. Ma'am, I'm speaking to both Mr. and Madam, conflict of interest, you're either in politics or you're an independent state body. We chose this gentleman here as an independent state organ. Something like that must never happen again. Let's just think of Mr. Sasa Jankovic, who also abused his post and directly from an independent state body, because he was then the Protector of the Citizens in politics. We all know what happened to him, he even made his own political option, his own political party, so that after he'd completely failed, he couldn't get out completely of politics. Everyone has the right to participate in politics. We are a free and democratic country, and I fully agree with that, and that applies to Sabic, but it has no right to work, it has no right to work, it is now retired, from the place of the Commissioner for Public Information because it is an independent institution. I'm sure something like this will never happen again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57627	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57628	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the Commissioner's Office for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, it is really not my desire to fall into a trap today and dedicate our work to Mr. Sabic's character and work. However, all this effort that my esteemed colleagues have made in previous talks is a reminder of all of us here in parliament, that when we decide on the choice of the new Commissioner, we must not afford ourselves the luxury of making the mistake that has already happened. I do not really know what is happening to people in the country of Serbia, who are elected by parliament or in some other way, as the procedure prescribes, who receive such a responsible, significant function, which is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then forget what they were chosen for, which they accepted and practically their personal actions and their personal behaviour, are also collapsing the work of a complete office. It is clear to me that Sabic was not alone in the office, that there are a huge number of people who have invested enormously positive energy in work over the past period, but indeed because of the very concept of the office's work in serious doubt and in serious dilemma, their work results, the behavior of a man who, if I remember correctly, was at the head of that office in December. In practice, we are tasked with thinking about what happened in the past period, to reassess and assess who will be in place, Mr Sabic, because at this point there should be no continuity in the work of the Public Information Office, or the Commissioner for Public Information, but there must be a clear discrepancy with the way Rodoljub Sabic has been doing, especially for the past few years. Which virus, which is the problem, because it is obvious that this type of hara virus in the country of Serbia, when it comes to the former Citizens' Protector, and then seems to have been infected and transferred to the Trustee, is something that does not cure medicine, it has to cure this parliament and the responsible state, which will stop making such mistakes earlier. It is personal to me, indeed, an acceptable proposal that I have been thinking about for days already for the new Trustee, I think that this man can continue to continue the continuity of what was good in the work of this office, and that he is just making a discontinuity in the conduct of Mr. Sabic, who has seriously violated the reputation, the importance of the institution itself, treating it as if it were exclusively his work and only his property, and I believe that he would not be so irresponsible, even according to his private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57629	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57630	I thank the chairman. Here, I would like as an MP and a representative and president of the USS from Svrlig, as I say is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia, and I am elected from the SNS list and represented in the Serbian Assembly, USS. I, like so far, and so have my colleagues who had previously talked about the report on the work of the trustee's office, to support everything they said, and I think that a lot of the things that were done were done on purpose, because someone who wasn't supposed to be involved in politics was involved in politics. That is why I think it was not appropriate, and that is why I think that some things in the coming period have to be done very differently, because the office in which he worked and led by the trustee, Mr Sabic, was very important for all citizens in Svrlig municipality, for all citizens in the territory of southeast Serbia, for all citizens in the territory of all Serbia, precisely because information that the citizens could not get firsthand was supposed to get out of the office, but what was happening was happening. The Information Commissioner was actively and politically supporting, attacking representatives, people chosen by the people, but on the other hand, our people who didn't have the right information, and wanted to hear that information, they didn't get it. I think that the period that comes, the period when we should choose another Commissioner, I will vote for what I think is good, and that is to be in the interest and work of all our citizens, that all the information that is needed to be heard, that both the citizens of Srlig and these small environments, as I just said, of their own, who run local self-government there, and they don't want anything to say, that this information must be public, transparent and that information must be provided to them, provided to us by the Trustee. So, in 2018, it was seen in the report a number of things that were done, paper, which is said to us, suffers everything, but the essence of all this is, in 2018 it showed, and also the previous 2017, that the Commissioner for Information was very active politically, which I don't think was appropriate and I don't think it should ever happen again. Once again, I, as president of the USS and as an MP in the Serbian Parliament, will support all those measures concerning the citizens of our small communities, our villages, our agriculture, the southeast of Serbia and the whole of Serbia. I think the new Commissioner must be the opposite of the present, because in the previous period, I also voted for Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic when it was necessary and I voted with the goal of working for what we voted for. I don't think he's met the needs of all of us, all of us citizens. Once again, the new Commissioner must work in the interest of all citizens and small communities for our villages and that at any moment he should know everything he needs, precisely because transparency is something that protects the interest of all of us living in the territory of all Serbia. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57631	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57632	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Institute of Public Information was established with us 15 years ago, and her task was to work, above all, to raise awareness of citizens who have the right to receive the requested information. This institution, above all, implies a bond between the authorities and the public, to seek to improve this very communication through its work, between the public when it comes to transparency and the availability of information controlled by a body of authorities. In this respect, it is very important that we preserve this institution because we also preserve the assets of democracy, i.e. the basic values of democratic society. Since this institution is in the service of citizens who are expected to exercise authority and to have insight into data, not only about spending taxpayers' money, but also free access to information of public importance, it takes a lot of time for citizens to gain confidence, and above all the habit of talking about certain topics and certain situations in general to the Commissioner for Information of public importance. The improvement of the work of the Commissioners is exclusively characterized by the independence, transparency and participation of the public, as we heard during the day, and in this sense the SDPS advocates the independence, professionality and efficiency of this institution, because it is important that we just create this atmosphere, and above all an adequate legal framework in which this institution will be able to work independently and above all, in the interests of citizens, its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57633	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57634	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, today we are considering a report on the implementation of the Law on free access to information from public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data for 2018. It's a good thing this finally happened on the agenda, but by law like this, we're not going to solve any of the problems that exist in this area. In particular, we won't solve them if we're only dealing with the former Information Commissioner. Of course, we believe in the word of the ruling majority's representatives that this is all what they say about him, but simply, then that man needs to be processed. But, well, I don't want to do that. To see the hill should come to him. To see the mountain, you need to get away from it. If we go back these fifteen years and look at the regulations and the laws of that period, we'll see that there was nothing like this in that time. However, having these regulations today does not mean that people are more protected, more free, and more. On the contrary, I think the situation is completely different. Another ancient Greek philosopher Diogenes said: “In order for man to live, he must get used to two things, to bad times, and to man’s injustice. ” Of course, these are things to live with, while another philosopher used to say -- that it was a rare time in which to think freely, and even a few times in which to express what is thought. For this reason, the truth and information that people can come to this truth are very important to us, for from people who do not know the truth are only in a more unfavorable position those who do not want to know the truth and those who are deprived of it, or who are forbidden to come to that truth. In ignorance of such people, today's world is being founded. We used to have a situation where language was one of the most important, most sacred of human abilities. But when the main means of manipulation... People became manipulative of consciousness, as is the case today, then the language came into another plan and became a second-rate instrument. Today, the most work is on those technical achievements that enable people to be manipulated and manipulated by consciousness. One of those things that happens today and how it works is, say, quantum computers. They will be able to budget hundreds of thousands, even more times than they are today's state-of-the-art computers, and that technique, means, such communication means, they're opening up unprecedented, fantastic possibilities in this area, in the field of cryptography, and that's the area that we're dealing with today's agenda right now. Today even the most powerful computers are not able to break the current account code so easily, the foreign exchange account, etc., but quantum computers, on which and how it works, will be able to do so. We don't know how far that technology came, but having experience with some of the previous things that mankind has discovered is very possible that these days exist. You know, humanity is doomed to watch the star out, not those stars that shine today. When with such a technique, such computers, a secret as we know will no longer be possible. It may be possible at some other level, but it certainly won't. Now all the secrets are contained in the encoding, in the numbers, fingerprints and everything else. Of course, that stuff does the computer. The computer is only one auxiliary device, the most important algorithm that the computer uses. According to some reports, the calculations, according to Moore's law, the power of the computer doubles every 18 months. In about 10 years, we will have a situation where computers, as we know today, will be the past, will literally not exist, but will exist in another form and will follow us quietly and undetectablely and will be invisible to the human eye, such as the invisible electrical current we use daily, and without which life is not possible. Furthermore, it is not far from the day when the Internet will be available through a contact lens and when that happens then we will be able to read his biography and all the other data that are related to him personally and to his life. Even more so, if it is a person who speaks another language, we will be able to have and watch both simultaneous or titulated translation immediately. I'm saying this, of course, because literally, today everything is done through computers, and even those people who work in this Office of Protectors of Citizens, they're simply not aware of what there is and what opportunities there are thanks to technology. Let's say, if the nerve endings of human senses, human eyes, human language and other organs were connected to a powerful computer and that computer sent signals to those senses that mimic the outside world, the outer environment, the human brain would be 100% deceived. Literally, a man's brain wouldn't have had a chance to stand up to the fact that it's a virtual reality. Already the current level of world development allows this problem to be solved, though, first in the virtual world, but some things are already real. In the foreseeable future, say advertising will include information that will be sent directly to the human brain. When I talk about it, in the foreseeable future, these are things that are literally ahead of us, maybe they're already happening somewhere right now. Now, let's say an American scientist recently said on this subject -- if humanity is lucky, these things will be tenth in about ten, fifteen years, and if they're not lucky, they'll happen at five, six years. So there's a lot of things ahead of us, so that's something to be taken care of. "To act reasonablely, not only is reason enough," Dostoyevsky said. Different forms of information and reporting create an illusion of different information. For example, today, compared to false reports and false information, some true information, but also information that has lost all meaning. It's all done to change people's minds, and people's minds change just by introducing information. There's no other way to change your mind. To stand up to this, we must also have the truth, that we try in all ways to get to that truth. As time expires, the greater amount of information that is within the reach of man today does not lead to greater wisdom, but rather leads to even greater chaos, more confusion, where simply this information cannot be selected. So, I've been saying all this from another aspect to some of my colleagues who have spoken so far, but just so you know what's waiting for a man in the future and in the near future, which we'll all be waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57635	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. (Miladin Chevarlic: No. He doesn't want a word. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57636	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respected citizens, we are today discussing a report by the Commissioner for Public Information, an independent regulatory state body. I agreed with this agenda myself, but I must say, first of all, for both you and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that I would be dishonest if I said that I had no dilemma in myself at all whether to agree at all. Namely, the report should be a report by a completely independent and apolitical body, but there was a deep political figure at the head of the body. The Commissioner for Public Information was independent of all things, except for the politics and political leaders of individual opposition parties and other than the money coming from there. It's a man who, in his political function, took every opportunity to attack his own country, and even when he fell drunk and hit his head in the sidewalk. Hence, my dilemma of whether or not such a person deserves to be discussed today, whether one of these, first of all, moral cartoons deserves to be discussed today in this respected home. So, a man who found his drunk fall appropriate to accuse the state, a man who, least of all, spent tens of millions of dinars on suspicious employment in that body, a man who maintained close political contacts with the opposition's political leaders and contracted with companies that were, as a rule, close to those political leaders. We come to the conclusion that, apart from the fact that this body was a serious political body, it was a serious business club. Those claims, though, can find their foothold somewhere in the past. In 2001, Rodoljub Sabic, as the official of the then DOS and Social Democracy official Vuk Obradovic, falsely accused his party's president of sexual harassment and, I repeat, falsely accused his party president of money as a political figure. Of course, you assume, all these claims were later denied by the court, as today's claims by Rodoljub Sabic can be disproved by any man in Serbia. So, the genealogy and the development of this political and business bribery work of Rodoljub Šabić goes back decades, so perhaps it shouldn't be surprising what his behavior is today and what his attitudes are. As for years ago, we were able to correct the decade-long mistakes left in our amanet after 2012, make sure that we and this mistake will correct and that the new personality, which will be headed by the then truly independent body, will be independent and completely different from what Rodoljub Sabic was in the past decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57637	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go. He doesn't want a word. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57638	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it has become a practice of this ruling majority to bring all the laws under EU pressure and to agree on an EU that we will never enter, we are today discussing a report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information from Public Matter and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. I would remind you that in the last four years, the reports of the Commissioners have not been the subject of a discussion of the National Assembly, although this is contrary to the law and to the Rules of Procedure, and that only last month have we considered the different reports that we have not just so far because those of the EU have forced you to do so. So today we also have the Report of the Commissioner, which cannot be positively assessed, but we can certainly welcome what we are still discussing today, what the Assembly has begun to do in the way it should have been done so far and what we can now discuss all agreements and information and proposals of the law in one more quality way. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it is fully in line with European regulations and directives. What we Serbian radicals have shown you, and what we constantly point to when it comes to the prescription of EU regulations and laws, is exactly what happens to this law, which is inapplicable to certain legal norms. We also pointed out many shortcomings to you when adopting this law and proposed legal solutions that would prevent any abuse, but we also pointed to over-authorization of the Commissioner. The right to the protection of personal data is guaranteed by the Constitution and by Article 42, which determines that the collection, processing, keeping and use of personality data is governed by law and that the use of personal data outside the purpose for which they are collected is prohibited. So it's the law that needs to prevent any abuse of data that citizens face. Here I primarily think of those data collected via the Internet, on cases and possibilities of abuse through various websites, social networks, because there is an increase in criminal activity directed towards users. User's privacy is marred by the publication of any information on the Internet, because they automatically belong to the company and remain preserved when the user shuts down his account, but we also warn of various privacy violations, from harassment by marketing, whether economically, whether political, then giving data to different agencies and cases of theft of other people's identity. Abuses are most often committed by those who are employed in institutions, who have the right to form a particular database, but not for their illegal use. The legal framework that exists is sufficient and constitutional solutions are very precise when it comes to the exercise of these rights of citizens and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data is that it should protect citizens from being abused by personal data rather than by a trustee who, as an independent body, does not even need to exist. If courts, prosecutors and other state authorities were to do their job properly, personal data would be protected, i.e. citizens would be protected from any intentional abuse and illegal use of this data. Every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the right to access information of public importance. So, every citizen's right to be informed of issues of public interest, and it is the duty of the state and all state authorities to inform citizens of these issues on a perfectly true and timely basis. The situation in the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance in the previous year was not quite at an envious level and a deterioration of the situation in this area was observed. We have indicated to you that this law represents only a dead letter on paper and that its application does not lead to what the legislator intended to do. What is essential is that when this law was passed, obviously there was no honest intention and it proved in practice that it was not fully respected by the executive authority. It is also noted that the selective application of this law, i.e. certain legal provisions depending on the person seeking information, is also observed. Article 9 of this Act may exclude and restrict free access to information of public importance. There's a lot of abuse around here. Many authorities, when providing, respond to the applicant's requests for information, are often called upon by this member, as one legal cavity is concerned, and in many cases unlimitedly, a state authority may be called upon not to allow access to the applicant for information for the security of the judiciary, security and the like. The report says that this right in Serbia is widely used, but is difficult to achieve without the trustees' intervention. Here is the question – what can the Trustee do, or what information can the Trustee receive, and not any Serbian citizen? Nothing more can be done by the Trustee than any citizen, because the legal framework itself is sufficient and it is perfectly clear, but the problem is that the system is poorly set and that the Trustee has been given too much in importance. If the state authorities did their job properly and did not ignore the requirements, citizens would get all the information and data they needed easily. It is often the case that state authorities are calling for the secrecy of information and the abuse of rights and privacy violations so as not to provide certain information that is not in any way secret. Then, in the same report, you state that in cases where complaints have been resolved, the trustee is told the success of interventions measured by the degree of obtaining information compared to the underlying complaints is relatively high and that it amounts to about 89%. Now I ask you, what conclusion is drawn from this data? Because a large number of cases the Trustee has and a large number of demands, this does not mean that the Trustee is necessary in obtaining information, but that means that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia are doing worse and worse. As I have already stated, every citizen has the right to ask the competent authority for specific information and to address the trustee only as soon as the State authority does not respond and deliver the requested information to whoever requested that information. We have no reason to praise the trustee institution, because we believe that as such it should not exist, because in a normal democratic state respect for the law is normal. We believe that the office should not exist and that it is not right that this office has an increasing number of cases, because that essentially means that the state institutions are not functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57639	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57640	Thank you. I point out the violation of article 107, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not the first time in the National Assembly these days that we SNS deputies have to do something because we have been ordered by the head of the EU delegation in Serbia. That's just not true. There are two basic reasons why we decided to make this session look like it looks, i.e. to consider the Report of the Commissioner for Public Information for 2018. The first reason is the extreme formal nature, therefore, that it is the obligation of the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure. So, we, respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure, are considering the Report of the Commissioner for Public Information, as we will consider tomorrow the Report of the Citizens' Protector, and Friday's Report of the Anti-Corruption Agency. That's a formal reason. There is one much more important, essential, political reason and has nothing to do with Sam Fabrizio, which is that we prove to the citizens of Serbia in direct television transmission that Rodoljub Sabic, as the end of his term approached him, was increasingly turning into a classical politician, which was, in fact, an open-minded politician, first of all, against the Prime Minister, then Prime Minister, and the current president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, against the ministers, against SNS MPs. And in the end, Rodoljub Sabic turned from someone who was supposed to be a Commissioner, but Parliament's Commissioner, so the National Assembly, for information of public importance, into a simple spokesman for the Gilas Alliance for Serbia. This is the main and main reason why we have defined ourselves to consider Mr Sabic's report, because this is a fundamental report by Mr Sabic, although it was signed by Mrs Mandic, who is his deputy. Otherwise, Mrs. Mandic, with all due respect, I expected you to talk to the MPs today, answer their questions, explain some details of your report, seeing that there are many critical tones in the report at the expense of the National Assembly about how we did not invite you, how you did not have the opportunity to address you and your then chief Rodoljub Sabic to the National Assembly, that you did not have the opportunity to inform the public through the National Assembly about the problems in your work. Here, you're here today, you've given one pre-exposure that's pretty short and lame. You complained that you didn't have enough capacity, and mostly financially, which I don't think is true, because as chairman of the Administrative Board I've always been meeting, and me and my predecessor Zoran Babic, whenever you asked the Administrative Committee for a staff plan, about your budget, never rejected anything from you. You have to admit that. Here, today you have a chance to talk to the MPs and those who are in power, or MPs who support the government and MPs from the opposition, but I see that you are mostly silent and seem to be looking forward to this session being over. This session will end, it is doubtless, that today's working day will end, to be completely precise, but it will not end by having SNS MPs, if they do not want to do so already, will not reveal the false role of Rodoljub Sabic as the Commissioner for Public Information, but in fact, a man who has been dealing with daily politics all along, insulting in the most disgusting way the President of the Republic, Ministers in the Government of Serbia, MPs, particularly Marijan Ristic, Vladimir Orlic, my smallness, Aleksandr Markovic and many others, which via the media, which via Twitter, etc. The government of Orlic asked what Rodoljub Šabić would do with a telephone number of 180 thousand dinars? Well, same as Sasha Jankovic, tweeting at work, calling us liars, liars, that we're miserable, that I don't know what kind of people we are. He needed a 180,000-euro phone for that. I'm now asking you as his deputy, since his trustee's office has ceased, is he going to return that phone after he bought it because he was doing the trustee's duty? Since he no longer performs his duties as a trustee, what interests the citizens of Serbia, and I see that you are complaining that you do not have enough money to function as a trustee, and you have money to buy a telephone for the 180 thousand dinars Shabic, so all of us here, the SNS MPs, are wondering if Mr Sabic will return that phone, did he return it, and why did he need a telephone of 180 thousand dinars? Here, I, as president of the parliamentary group, have a phone that's not worth it now, brother to brother, 100 euros, is five years old, and I can do anything with this phone as normal as that 180 thousand dinar phone. So there are a lot of questions that you would like to answer as his deputy and how you should answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57641	My colleague Martinovic, I don't think there were any injuries to article 107. I can't influence my fellow Members' discussion. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57642	I'd love to replicate, but here's Article 32. We heard here an attempt to defend something that is indefensible. The fact is that Sam Frabrizio and the National Convention for the European Union, which, among other things, included representatives of the Natasa Kandic Fund and those who organise "Merdita" and thus some other NGOs, launched all of this about, among other things, these reports, so-called "Merdita" and so on. The regulatory independent bodies we're discussing these days. And this isn't just about today's report, we had it 15 days ago, we're going to have yesterday and tomorrow and probably some more at some point, some of which we haven't finished. I would agree with the fact that Rodoljub Sabic, as well as Sasa Jankovic, was involved more in politics than they are in their business, in accordance with the Constitution and with the law and that they were in politics by being open to the part of the so-called. Civil opposition and that even one of them was an official candidate for the President of the Republic, but the question arises why did you and each other choose? We Serbian radicals in the first election were both Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic against the choice of these people, mostly with the arguments that you are now talking about, and you have re-elected one and the other. So, you've had half the money, and half the money's not working. And that's where the question is now why is that? These reports are, according to this proposal, a conclusion to be voted on, it is obvious that this is in line with what the European Commission has asked the National Assembly and there is really nothing to object to. It is on the one hand good that they forced you to discuss this too, but we, I repeat, are sorry that you did not listen to us from the Serbian Radical Party. We have been trying to explain to you for three and a half years that you should act in harmony with the best experiences of parliamentary democracy. We don't think that you don't know it, but, simply, it wasn't of any interest to you at the time, it now appeared as an interest and here we are talking in a different way and the sessions are scheduled in a different way and it certainly is a good thing, but we somehow remain sorry that you did it because Sam Fabrizio forced you to do it, because you didn't listen either to those among you who know it, or us, who told you completely. So don't try to explain to us now that you are, here we are today discussing this because you wanted to and because it's a business obligation and because it's a legal obligation. It's been all these years, so that's not what's been discussed. Legal obligation, constitutional obligation, business obligation is to discuss and adopt the final budget account. It hasn't been since 2000, or it was once. Why didn't you accept that constitutional, legal and business obligation? Sinisha Mali, the finance minister said 10 reports were prepared, that we would get them in the Assembly, but here we are waiting. It's like this for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57643	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure by that article. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57644	Mr. Arsic, Article 27. Mrs. Radeta is wrong. We didn't put this report on the agenda because anyone ordered us to. You know that the EU asked us to impose sanctions on Russia, so we didn't. When we have not imposed sanctions on Russia, can you believe that someone can force us to put on the agenda a session of the National Assembly report by Rodoljub Sabic? So, I think it is clear from that very fact that no one can order Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group and our President, Aleksandr Vukic, so no one from the EU either. Mrs Radeta, there's another thing that you and your MP group insist on and rightly insist on, and I haven't read a single word about it in the 2018 report. I'm talking about the Commissioner's report on information of public importance. In July 2019, four years after Potocari attempted assassination, or attempted murder of the then Prime Minister, and the current president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who went to Srebrenica, who went to Potocara to honor the people who died in Srebrenica in 1995. We all agree there was a crime there. Not everyone agrees on the qualifications of that crime, but not to get into it now. In the 2018 Report, there is not a single word and now my question for Mrs Mandic - how is it possible that the Commissioner for Public Information was not interested in something that, not from the public, but from the general public, of national importance? You know, when someone tries to kill your Prime Minister, it's not that information is of public importance, it's first-class, national and general-state, general national information. There is not a single word in the 2018 Report. So that's one of the reasons why we want to discuss the Commissioner's report on information of public importance, and that's to be discussed all day today, not to discuss the form until the break at 2:00, at 2:00 we're going to have lunch and then we're going home afterwards. We're going to be discussing the Commissioner's report on information of public importance all day. So, I'm interested in how that works, and I'm going to tell you when it's my turn to speak on the list of MPs, how come Rodoljub Shabic is interested in how the employees of police officers, or certain citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are in the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and are working on KIM? So he wants to know how we got the helicopters, so he wants to know how we got the planes, so he wants to know... and he's always interested in something that's very sensitive to the state of Serbia and the security of the Serbian state. So he's interested in “Savamal, ” so he's interested in Sinisha Mali, so he's interested in the doctorate of Sinisha Mali, so he wants to know how he hired some people in his office. He's interested in all of that. But imagine, Rodoljub Shabic doesn't care who tried to kill his president. I guess that's his president, too. You know, when someone's Prime Minister, he's the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. When someone is the President of the Republic, he is the president of all its citizens, and those who voted for him and those who did not vote for him. But Rodoljub Šabić was absolutely not interested. We from the SNS, and I believe most of Serbia's citizens, I believe, are also interested in who wanted to kill Alexander Vukic when he was in Potocari in 2015. That we don't avoid these easy expressions that don't mean anything, that there's been an incident, that there's been an awkward situation. In 2015, in Potocari, in my opinion, they wanted to kill Alexander Vukic. A question for the Commissioner for Public Information – how is this not information of public importance to him? How come he doesn't wonder who's behind the assassination attempt and attempted murder of Alexander Vukic? When a crowd of several hundred people set out against one man and had not been his courage, his ability, a man who had not bowed his head in front of that destructive mob, and had not been the courage of those few boys from his security, and had not been the courage and complicity of several police officers from Republika Srpska's MUP, the question is what would have happened to Aleksandra Vukic in Potocari in 2015. That's not in the report. I think it is more important that the citizens of Serbia know it than whether Sinisa Mali allegedly plagiarized or did not plagiarize his doctorate and who he hired in his cabinet. You will see, when I talk about the report, 88, it was not difficult for me to count, 88 asked a lawyer's office through the Commissioner for Public Information, Rodoljub Sabic, sent to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, how certain citizens of the Republic of Serbia are employed in the Serbian Ministry and are working on KIM. Isn't that a trendy question for you? Should we leave our people at the kim in the lurch? Who is responsible, who does one who thinks well of the state of Serbia even come up with the idea of asking such questions? Let's ask such questions, since some people here are constantly calling on the EU, let's ask that question in the UK. Let's ask that question in France. Let's ask that question in Germany or in Croatia ask that question. No way. The British won't open until the end of the Second World War. We're all ours. Then there is Rodoljub Sabic who attacks his own country. He says -- they don't give me data from the Department of Defense about how helicopters were obtained and how planes were purchased. And he didn't care how Dragan Sutanovac dipped those same planes and tanks at the Irons in Smederev. He wasn't interested in how the privatisations of two thousand years were conducted. He wasn't interested in the wealth of Dragan Gilas. Not Dragan Gilas as an individual, as a citizen, but Dragan Gilas as a public official. Dragan Gilas didn't get rich as a citizen. He, as a citizen, had a sausage for both a sandwich and a hamburger, but he was rich as a politician. First as director of the National Office, the fictional one, which did not exist under the Constitution, then as minister in the Serbian government, and finally as the city's thief in Belgrade. He then acquired all these millions and all those thousands of squares of residential and business space he had. But in this report, I don't see that that was of interest to Rodoljub Šabić. Rodoljub Sabic was exclusively interested in something important for the security of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to have targeted it, in order to discover something that could endanger the security of the Serbian state. When I asked him how long he was going to work for foreign intelligence, because it's impossible for him to ask those questions because it occurred to him, without someone telling him to ask, then he called me, and that's what "Today" said, that I'm a lying thief, that I'm lying about him working for foreign intelligence. What Serbian citizen who is well-intentioned, who thinks well of the state of Serbia, is interested in details of how we got helicopters and planes? Every citizen of Serbia who is well-intentioned, he is happy that Serbia has more planes than it had in 2012, that there are more helicopters and military and police, that we have more tanks, that we have a stronger army, that we have stronger police. Our country is safer, our people are safer, our children are safer. An ordinary citizen does not care about how that plane from Russia or Belarus, or that helicopter, came to Belgrade to the airport in Batajnica. But that's what Rodoljub Šabić is interested in. He doesn't care who wanted to kill Alexander Vukic, but he is interested in Savamal, but he is interested in how we hire people in the MUP, and he works on KIM, but he is interested in Siniša Mali, but he is interested in "Belgrade on Water", which means all those topics on which he tried politically to score Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, those from this decomposed DS and similar to them. Because of this, not because of this Sam Fabrizio, whom no one in Serbia is afraid of and whose orders no one does anything. We, SNS MPs and Serbian citizens, wonder why Rodoljub Sabic put what he put in the report and did not put something that is much more important for both the state and the citizens in our opinion?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57645	The word is Mrs. Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57646	Thank you. First, I will answer about the report and the report's findings, that the National Assembly, that we said in the report that the National Assembly did not consider the reports of the Commissioners. Please, for the sake of truth and for the sake of citizens, if you've already said so, it was necessary to read the whole sentence, which says that the National Assembly has considered only three reports by the Commissioner of 13 regular and one extraordinary reports. That's the facts. This is the year for 2010, 2012 and 2013, which means that in the last four years, from 2014 to 2017 reports have not been the subject of a discussion in the National Assembly. (Vladimir Orlic): Is that what it says? You haven't read, read. That's, I'm reading it from the report, yeah. (Vladimir Orlic: Read it. ) Please, I read it from the report. So this is our conclusion, six reports by the Commissioner, of a total of 14, discussed only on the committees or on one of the committees of the Assembly, and five reports have not been considered at all. So they're not on boards, nor in the National Assembly's tide. (Vladimir Orlic): Do you know what you just said? ) Please, we need to read the whole context and understand what we said, what we wanted to say. So, if the National Assembly had considered the reports of the Commissioners, she had the opportunity to ask all these questions that were addressed today to Mr Sabic's address, to address these questions to him. Indeed, it is not correct that when we talk about the work of the institution, we are talking exclusively about Mr. Sabic's character and work. So please and I expect you to consider here issues that will really contribute to a better situation both in the area of freedom of access to information and in the area of data protection, and in the report we have stated a lot of what is not good in both areas. We talked about a very large number of complaints being established, which says authorities have not acted on the demands of citizens. We were talking about increasing the percentage of decisions by the Commissioners that the limited authorities are not acting on and that this is worrying, that this is because some of the mechanisms provided for by law in practice do not work, and they concern security, enforcement of the trustees' solution and they are in the government's jurisdiction. We are already talking about this in several reports, in fact, all these recommendations and findings are repeated. So that's about reviewing the report. The second remark, therefore, has been made, and it is serious, about the abuse of any means by the trustee institution. In fact, an article has been called on and listed by the NGO of the Trieste Anti-Corruption Council. I'm asking you, in the report, you have a finding on that. Therefore, the State Auditing Institution has been auditing the trustee's entire budget and has not found any illegality in spending the trustees' budgets. The second revision that was made last year, which is a project audit, related to the three-year project of the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, where no single irregularity was found and where each dinar was justified and explained what the third type of control was spent for, and this is an internal audit that works in our institution. So, as far as abuse of funds is concerned, I really have to say that it's arbitrary information and it's completely incorrect. That's actually confirmed by these authorities. You were talking about why the "Potocara" case wasn't in the report, and you mentioned some other cases. So it is not the trustee who determines what citizens will ask the authorities for and why the citizens will appeal to the Trustee. The trustee shall make a decision and give the order to make the information available only after the complaints lodged. If there is no such appeal, he is not engaged in such a case by official duty because there is no such legal authority. That's why there's no record of those or any of the other cases you've mentioned. There was talk of illegal employment here. I am responsibly telling you that the trustee's institution has not hired a single associate beyond the law. You've been calling again for some piece of the Trieste Anti-Corruption Council from Triestenik. It was about receiving for a certain time without a competition at a time when the competition was not required to be accepted for a certain time. After that, after changing the law, no single official was accepted without a competition. Until then, the reception was made in accordance with the law. Now, these are some answers to questions that I understood were addressed to the trustee, because actually the more the findings were at the expense of Mr. Shabic. I'm not his attorney and I don't want to look back on it. If there are any questions concerning the work of the institution, I am in the mood to answer everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57647	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then Verica Radet, and Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57648	Ladies and gentlemen, I say again, with all due respect, Mrs. Mandic to you as a lady, but you have not answered many questions for us. First of all, you haven't answered our question about the fate of a mobile phone of 180,000 dinars and what Rodoljub Šabić will do with a telephone of 180,000 dinars. At a time when the state is saving, when the people are saving, Rodoljub Sabic, who every day via Twitter, and you are a witness, runs a campaign against Alexander Vukic, buys himself an 180.000 dinar phone from state money. Like Sasa Jankovic, he probably tweeted at work. Secondly, you cannot, as deputy of Rodoljub Šabić, say that – ask Rodoljub Šabić, I am only his deputy, I am not his legal representative or I am not his attorney. You were, and you're still Deputy Commissioner for Public Information. You share the same responsibility as Rodoljub Šabić. You've worked together on all these jobs and at least what you've just said is political, and especially legally inappropriate and unfounded. It is the same as if I were to say now, I am the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandr Vukic said something, and you come to the Assembly and ask me – and what did Alexander Vukic mean by that? I say - well, I have no idea, it doesn't matter that I'm the president of the parliamentary group, ask Alexander Vukic. We're asking you. You are Deputy Rodoljub Šabić. After all, you are the signator of this report, not Rodoljub Sabic, and we are having a conversation with you, we want a dialogue with you. You're saying it's going to be a little bit more about my dear colleague Orlic talking, that I'm not opening that topic right now about how you haven't been invited to the National Assembly and that you haven't had a chance to discuss it with the MPs. That's just not true. But there's something else I want to say. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this report of the Commissioner for Public Information has three parts – the central part, that is the report, then you have a summary of the report and you finally have a review of the resolutions of the Commissioners made in 2018. What can we see from this examination, and you, Mrs. Mandic, say I'm wrong? The smallest number of citizens is, therefore, ordinary citizens, if I may say so, ordinary citizens, therefore, people of blood and flesh who are looking for some information. Here's who are most information seekers and on behalf of whom you have sought information, otherwise, in a large number of cases very sensitive to the Republic of Serbia: a CINS journalist, a CINS journalist, a CINS journalist, a KRIK journalist, an Independent Police Union of Serbia, a Sloge Police Union, a CINS journalist, a KRIK journalist, 88 solutions to the demands of an attorney's office, and related to the establishment of a working relationship between a certain person in the MUP of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, 88 of the same law firm. Now, this is all a lawyer's office. Here, citizens of Serbia, who asked for all information via Rodoljub Sabic: The Humanitarian Law Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Fund, the Fund, the Fund, the Fund, the Fund, and all for the operation of individual members of the Serbian Army in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. And you, Mrs. Mandic, tell me it's not trendy and it's not an accident. KRIK journalist, CINS journalist, KRIK journalist, Insider journalist, journalist N1, Radio Free Europe, BIRN journalist, journalist N1, journalist Heistinomer, journalist Nedeljnik "Time", journalist CINS, journalist KRIK, journalist Insider, journalist BIRN, journalist CINS, transparency of Serbia. These are organizations in whose name you asked for information. Here, if we'd like to deal with a mere count, the least we can do is look for information of public importance. You are, in fact, citizens of Serbia need to know that we should stop speaking in this unblemished language that no one lives understands. You were in fact a service and an exposition of various acts, screams, birns, bureaus, Natasha Kandić, Nemanje Nenadić, etc. who, in fact, have asked the competent state authorities, in most cases, I repeat, for the security of very sensitive data. What is seen in your report as the end of Rodoljub Sabic's mandate neared, thus increasing the number of those who sought information that was safely highly sensitive to the Republic of Serbia. After all, you can't convince me, you, Mrs. Mandic, are not at a children's party, we are still as serious as people, impossible to get Rodoljub Sabic as the Commissioner for Public Information, as a state body, be careful not to talk to me about Rodoljub Sabic as a citizen, whether he likes to drink or not to drink, so he smitten himself and hit his head on the sidewalk, I am not dealing with it, but Rodoljub Sabic is a state body, allegedly an independent state body, how independent it is seen from this report. But it's impossible for one state authority not to ask themselves publicly, so who wanted to kill another state organ? Is it the President of the Republic also a state body? And the Wolf wanted to be killed in the Potocai, I guess you saw those videos. It was not so, but someone approached him, and said: "You are a Chettite, you are a great Serb, you are like this; you are like this; no, a crowd of several hundred men went after a man, not with the intention of lynching him, to kill him." To kill the Prime Minister and nothing to anyone. Nobody cares about that. It's impossible for CINS, BIRN, the humanitarian rights fund, not to be asked by Natasa Kandic who wanted to kill the president of the Republic. That woman has such a sensitive heart for human victims, whatever nationality it was, that it was simply indescribable, even though that man was called and so much for her hated Alexander Vukic. Now I'm going to read to you, when it comes to my turn, what did the Humanitarian Law Fund ask you to ask the Ministry of Defence, what were some citizens of the Republic of Serbia doing in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999? Well, what could they do? Here, now, let's talk common sense, what could they do? Well, to defend the state and defend the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, so they didn't go down to camp, so they didn't go downstairs to make a barbecue. They didn't go down to crucify a tent like those outside Serbia's presidency. They went to defend the Serbian people, went to defend Serbia's territorial integrity. Who to defend him from? Of the Cypriot terrorists, of the NATO Pact, of Albania's regular army. Are you aware of what we're talking about? You're banalizing things. The most important problem is Herzegovica Street and Sava Small. It's not, it's these enquiries that are tending to bring down the security system of the Republic of Serbia. You wondered what a hundred and some citizens of the Republic of Serbia were doing in Kosovo and Metohija during the 1999 NATO aggression? They fought in Paštrick, fought in the June mountains, and some of them sit here, I don't see General Delic, defending the state of Serbia, at a very difficult time. Now you're expecting, so you've come to the National Assembly, let's talk a little bit about how Sinisha Mali hired several women in his cabinet. Let's talk about it too, but let's talk about how it's possible for you to act solely on orders and on the demands of CINS, BIRNs, transparency, Bureau, Natasha Kandic and some others who don't think well. In my opinion, I'm now building up, not to say it's an SNS opinion, but I speak for myself, as a MP, who doesn't think well of the state of Serbia. I don't think he means well to the state of Serbia who asks you to ask the Department of Defense how we got the helicopters, how we got the planes, how we got the tanks, what a certain citizen was doing, I mean a citizen, so you know what he was, was an officer, let's not lie, the Yugoslav Army in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. What could he do? What could Colonel Delic do at the time? What could General Lazarevic do? What could General Pavkovic do? What he could do in 1999 in Kosovo and Metohija, rather than fight the joint villains, those from the air and those from the land. What could he do? And to fight. In 2018 you have so many questions from the humanitarian law fund, and you, Mrs. Mandic, say again that it is not an accident, I do not believe in politics. I may be a stupid man or I'm not intelligent enough, but some life experience taught me, there's no coincidence in politics, or there's very little. It is impossible for so many questions to appear in 2018, better said that the Humanitarian Law Fund appears as an information seeker, and you respond more quickly to dozens of their demands about what individual officers at the time of the Yugoslav Army, today Serbia's armies in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. So when you take and add, you've least acted on the demands of the citizens, at least. You've been in the service of various NGOs. You were in the service of godless independent journalists. You were in the service of the humanitarian law fund, and you did it. That's what you've been doing, and that's how I'm gonna finish this part of my exposure. In 2018, when the requirements appeared and the Republic of Serbia was exposed to a barbarian fire, which on the outside, which, when we started celebrating and remembering these glorious days of the Yugoslav Army and the Ministry of Serbia's military struggle in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. When we stopped being ashamed of General Lazarevic. When we stopped being ashamed of what General Pavkovic was doing. When we stopped being ashamed of what Colonel Delic was doing at the time. When we stopped being ashamed that we were fighting heroically in Kosharam, Junik and so on, on Paštrik. Now you're trying to tell me, it doesn't matter, and here, right now, these days, Shipari after Nebojsa Pavkovic's two-thirds of the sentence expires at the end of 2019, although I don't think I know what he was accused of and what he was convicted of, because I don't see that he's a crime to defend his people, two-thirds of the sentence expires at the end of 2019. Now the Shipari are looking, imagine Ramush Haradinaj is looking, the man who admitted in his book that he was slaughtering, pulling out the eyes of living people, he's asking to be delivered directly from prison by General Pavkovic to him, a great fighter for human rights and freedoms. You are sitting here, so wisely silent, as this Martinovic is now talking about, it's important Sava small, it's important Sinisa Mali, what else is in this report? What else did you do? Well, yes, what's very important to you. The journalist of BIRN asks you, imagine, so it is not important either this Pavkovic, nor Kosovo, it is not important, but it is very important that the journalist BIRN asks you how the working members of the people are, officials Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Martinović, Darko Laketić, some Milorad Jerkan, Rade Grbić, Goran Reljić, Predrag Canovic, Ivan Bosnjak at the High School of Medical Studies in Đuprija. So that's what the citizens of Serbia are interested in, how I, as a doctor of legal science, can teach a legal object. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in, but you don't think Serbian citizens are interested in who tried to kill our president? You don't care who or why he's looking for information about the functioning of the Yugoslav Army on KIM. Well, it says Marco, here's a report, so read it, I read it in detail, it has three parts. You have a report, a summary of the report and a review of the trustee's solution. When you add a review of the trustee's solution, in two-thirds of the CINS, BIRN, KRIK, Natasa Kandic, "Transparency of Serbia" etc. That's all in 2018. And you throw away, you'll get a chance to say your opinion. Here, two hours closer to your lunchtime, don't come hungry for the session, when you're hungry, your brain works. I don't have any sandwich to give you, so go down to the restaurant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57649	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Well, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57650	This debate, for starters, leads me to, that is, the need to say to the public that, we Serbian radicals, we really have a million reasons to be proud of our consistency and what we do in politics. We have said from the beginning, the trustee is not needed as he is conceived, the state of Serbia. You inherited the trustee and the function and the name and the last name, and you accepted one and the other and confirmed it, and then it was all good for you. What we heard earlier, and it is quite true what Mr. Martinovic listed, who submitted everything to the Commissioner's demands and to whom the trustee provided that information. Well, if there's a reason behind our claim that this function doesn't make any sense in the state of Serbia, then that's exactly it. As for us, the Commissioner, whoever it is, who will provide the data, the first question is how much public data is at all, the question even part of what you said, Mr Martinovic, no matter what you wanted to talk to Mrs Mandic, may be better not to bring some things out in public. First of all, I speak in the interest of the state, I guess that's our main and primary interest here. You mentioned what happened to Alexander Vukic, in Srebrenica, and why he didn't react to the Commissioner. I'm not going to stand up, of course, you said, "Here's because tomorrow is the day that the Potocari marks the crime that took place there." I now call upon all MPs to, at least tomorrow, put on this badge, which we wear, where it says "There was no genocide in Srebrenica". That's what the trustee and his office should do. You say they didn't force you, those from Europe, to discuss these reports, because if they could force you, they would force you to impose Russian sanctions. Thank God you didn't do that, and we sincerely hope you never will, but we've been calling you here for three and a half years to give diplomatic status to the Russians, at the humanitarian Serbian-Russian centre in Nis. You say that some mob, not some one, but really did attack Vukic, in Srebrenica, when he was, of course, he shouldn't have gone first, but certainly that's no reason for anyone to attack him and you can't expect this Rodoljub Sabic to be made known in any way, because he, say, you know that too, Mr Martinovic, was part of the mob that was waiting for Vojislav Seselj, when they wanted to lynch him, after that five-octobar revolution, in front of that building in the assembly. So someone like that can't have a sense of reaction, that's what you're talking about. But since December, or we, however, have no one in this capacity of that trustee. And now I'm asking, what's been going on since December so far, if this function really needs to be done, and we're saying no, and this is an opportunity to say nice, we're not going to have any more trustees, so let's make this a cause and this report, and this previous trustee, whatever, because it's proven, if from December until now, here half of July, it could have worked, without the trustees, then I guess it could've been in the future. Mrs. Mandic tried to say something about this report here, but there is something Mrs. Mandic, which you, as someone who represents that report or anyone, are telling the ministers, you cannot talk to MPs in some bickering way. You say you're not the representative of Rodoljub Šabić, you're not, you've been his close associate for many years, you've been his deputy, but those who are now criticizing you have enabled you to now be the performer of your duties, in fact, that trustee. But the work, the character and the work, as you say Rodoljub Šabić, I don't know what his work is, something he hasn't shown him, we've known him for many years, but we have the right here as you say, to attack, and we say that we are critical of everyone whose report we're discussing here, we are the National Assembly. It's simple, our jurisdiction is to control and distract, and to say critically what we mean to say, and we don't mean anything personal, against any of you, when we say that this trustee shouldn't exist. I think you agree with that, too. What is well done to the state of Serbia, because I don't know how many years we have a trustee, whether Serbia's citizens live better than that, if someone has accelerated the judicial dispute or the administrative procedure, because you've reacted, did anything positively happen to a single Serbian citizen? A colleague, Martinovice, says there, lists the Fund for Humanitarian Law, Transparency, etc., all those organisations that are known in Serbia, in anti-Serbian activity. Someone liked it or not, but they did. And they really do. So, the trustee worked for them, and where in the report is that for how many citizens did the Trustee work for? You know, if the Commissioner has worked in most cases for these organisations, it is more evidence that citizens, to the state of Serbia, to the people of Serbia, do not need such a function. It is, I repeat, our position of the SRS from the very beginning. There's only one so-called. An independent institution, envisioned by the Constitution, and everything the Constitution does not oblige us, is a matter of political evaluation and assessment whether we will or will not have in Serbia. All of these organizations, which Mr. Martinović listed and for which you worked as a trustee, all of these functions, organizations, NGOs, are those that force the existence of your function and other so-called so-called functions. Independent regulatory bodies, representatives of all these organisations were part of the convention, imagine Natasa Kandic, part of the national convention, the EU, which sat here, before which the highest state officials were confessed, and there is now the discrepancy. So, those in power have to say either all of this or at least the majority, or this specifically, which is the EU's intensity, Serbia doesn't need, and we won't, as without the EU officials, or individual EU member states, say you're free, crucify, Serbia can't join the EU, because there's no enlargement. Come on, here's the opportunity, step by step, you gentlemen from power, to break up with this function, to say that we no longer need the trustee and that it is your beginning to reject the EU order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57651	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57652	Thank you. Mrs. Mandic, I'm glad you're involved in this debate. I have to tell you, I'm not happy with the way you did it the moment you and I were having sex, so I raised that question, whether or not the reports delivered by the Commissioner to the National Assembly were discussed in the National Assembly? That's the question. You started with the words, not according to our Report. We didn't resent it, we resented it not being debated in Plenum. So you said I didn't read it right and you'd read it. And you haven't read from two or three exact attempts, but you went back to that text, so you finally concluded, now I'm going to tell you what you've said, which is what you've concluded - from 2014 to 2017, these Reports in the National Assembly, not on the Committees, not at all. That was your conclusion. So, once again, I'm going to read your report now, if you have a text, feel free to follow it so I don't make a mistake by accident. Page 8 of Section 2 of the first paragraph, I said, it's this sickened, dilated to see it well. This sentence in your Report reads like this – The National Assembly considered only three Reports in Plenum, only three Reports of the Trustees, 2010, 2012, 2013, meaning that in the last four years, 2014 to 2017, the Reports of the Trustees were not the subject of consideration in the National Assembly. Dot. That's a whole sentence. That's what I'm saying - false. I'm telling the truth because they've been discussed at the Committees of the National Assembly. Yes, Mrs. Mandic, you say they are, you say it's true what I'm saying right now. On the same side of eight, go freely to the bottom of the page, because you see how your footnote 3 is, I'm going to read it to you, all of it. The 2014 report was discussed by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee of the National Assembly, the Committee on Culture and Information, the second Committee of the National Assembly, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the Third Committee of the National Assembly. The three committees discussed the 2014 report, it says in your report. What I'm saying is that they're false and that it's personally claimed by Shabic, by various media on many occasions, that's his words and I say this is what I see as his handwriting. But it's true, you signed this report that we're talking about right now. So this is something we need to understand each other about. Let's move on. Trustee's 2015 report. So, the same side, the same place I pointed out, was considered by the Justice Committee by the state administration and local self-government. Is that the Committee of the National Assembly? It is still, and in 2015, as it was in 2014, as it is today, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, is it the Committee of the National Assembly, and 2014 and 2015, and whatever year you want, and here it is in 2019? The 2016 Trustee's report considered it alone, probably small for you, but the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, and in 2017 only the Committee on Justice and Local Self-Government. Only or not, the Committee of the National Assembly, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and all this to get us as MPs a sentence – no, neither Committees nor Plenum were considered. This is your report. First of all, I want to give you a chance to correct yourself, to say nicely, honestly to hear all the citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission, what is true. Only one can be and we all know that all these committees are like you wrote to discuss this report. I'm telling you, it means the National Assembly has decided on it. That means it. I want to give you a chance to say it now -- yes, it is or to say that you did something wrong when you wrote this report here. It can't be exactly one, the other, the third and the fifth and all at the same time. So the National Assembly has considered it and are the working bodies of the National Assembly. The other thing is, we've asked questions here -- why hasn't Rodoljub Sabic dealt with some issues? And, you get the answer – it's not, because he can deal with some topic. That's what you just told us. Only if some interested citizen starts the subject, just like that. And he can't ask anything that we think is more important to the state or its institutions or to the President of the Republic, if it wasn't launched by anyone as a topic, as an interested citizen. Now, I'm curious, since Rodoljub Sabic performed as trustee on 15 November 2018, he was still in office, right? I have more questions like this, but let's get one thing at a time, 'cause I want to get this straight. In an interview for "Time" he makes the following comments, recommendations GRECO and so on. as he said -- the FATF blacklist is not true that Serbia is on any FATF blacklist at any time, but he talks about it and says -- that's a warning. So, the fact that something is being transferred to Serbia, a grudge, is a warning of such intensity that even sanctions are not excluded. So I called this simple politics. I only heard Vuk Jeremic say -- Serbia is on the FATF blacklist and therefore will not impose sanctions. We all know what that means, etc. We saw it in 1990, and what it looks like to live under sanctions. So, only this man I've heard, no one else has allowed himself this kind of luxury to say these things and thus frighten the people. And, I say, here I see such words by Rodoljub Šabić, and if you tell us that interested citizens are those who initiate themes and that only when interested citizens start a topic, I wonder if you have any way recorded that an interested citizen asked Rodoljub Šabić to give his opinion about the FATF Lisa, to characterise it in this way. And, from where, I especially don't understand, how does the idea of Rodoljub Sabic assess whether or not he is threatening Serbia's economic embargo, is it derived from this law that regulates what he deals with as a trustee? I don't think so. Does this have anything to do with his jurisdiction, his expertise, anything? I don't think so. This is what I said, this is pure politics. I am interested, in addition to what I asked you to answer for the truth, whether or not the committees have considered your reports and 2014 and 2015, 2016 and 2017? So, did Sabic lie when he claims that the Assembly did not decide, that she did not plead? To tell me, are you also telling me which particular member of the law that regulates the work of the Commissioner gives him the right to assess whether Serbia is threatening or not to threaten sanctions? That in this way scares the people, although this as a topic is the result of the official address of an interested citizen, I ask you to introduce us all to when and how it happened. I'd say I know the answer in advance and it's a little more important for me to hear the answer to that question than to ask why Iphone X of 180,000 dinars, but if we could find time, it wouldn't be bad enough to look for, at least some kind of answer, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57653	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57654	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I wanted to answer to Mrs. Radetti's words that were addressed to me. Mrs Radeta asked - since we are not satisfied with the work of Rodoljub Šabić, why we have not resolved him. Many asked and it was not just a question about Rodoljub Sabic, many wondered why in 2012, the SNS took over in Serbia, but Zagorka Dolovac, the Republic Public Prosecutor, was not replaced by Sasa Jankovic, why Rodoljub Sabic was not replaced, why many other officials who were elected during the former government were not removed. Because we wanted to introduce a new political culture in Serbia, which is to finally end this political rematch. You remember very well, as I remember, what happened in Serbia after 5 October 2000, and what they did to people who belonged to them as they were then speaking from DOS Milosevic's Radical Authority or the Red Black Coalition. Well, you remember what line of bestiality they went to when they threatened to cut their heads off, that's not what the SS did either. So they're going to cut into the heads of the children of former SRS officials, SPS, JUL, etc., and so publicly label them as children of those who exercised power until 2000. We of the SNS have decided that this is no longer the case in Serbia. It's been hard for us. Do you think it would have been a lot easier for us to have, on condition that we had our Commissioner for Public Information, that we had ours again, under the authority of the Republic Public Prosecutor, that we had our own Protector of Citizens? It would be easier for us, but then people would say, "Well, these are the same as those of the DOS, take over power, and then the government is treated like prey, and then clean up all those who were before you." We have shown that Serbia can be managed, that Serbia can make economic progress, financially make progress, military to strengthen, to strengthen its capacity diplomatically, even though we have held on to certain important functions of people from the former government. I think it is a great credit for Alexander Vukic and SNS for introducing a new model, a democratic model of political behaviour, which, until then in Serbia, simply did not exist, particularly did not exist at DOS time. At DOS time, so after October 5, 2000, they collapsed to the ground of all the institutions they seized and won, some legally, most illegally. Not to tell you how they insulted people, how they humiliated them, how they made lists to liquidate them. I think my daughter, correct me if I'm wrong, has been cut to the head by Milovan Boyic. Correct me if I'm wrong. So, a top doctor, a top cardio surgeon, the kid was cut to the head. Someone would say that now those of us who were somehow victims of that haircut to the head and those threats that would cut us to the head, we should now cut our hair to the head. No, we're not gonna cut anybody's hair. We're not going to apply these SS and Gestapo methods. We will not who Bosko Obradović, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic threaten people - you must not leave the house, we will block you. Alexander Vukic from Serbia's presidency must not leave, he will be blocked by trucks and badgers. Vojislav Seselj must not leave the vehicle because Bosko Obradovic is waiting for him. Well, we're just trying to break up with that practice. We're not going to act like that. Well, there are so many of us, and Serbian citizens who support Alexander Vukic there are so many if we want to act like it, not Bosko Obradovic, but all of them together wouldn't be able to move out of their apartment, but we won't be the same as they are. Well, we're not going to be the same as those who came to power with machine guns on October 5, 2000. This is why Sasa Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic and many others were not replaced. Whether it was a mistake or not from our position, someone who wanted to build a different political culture, we don't think it was a mistake. You think it is, okay, it's your right. I have something else important to say, and it concerns Mrs. Stanojle Mandic's exposure. She says there was no illegal employment, and in particular there was no political employment in the Service of the Commissioner for Public Information. Mrs. Mandic, I was really getting ready for this session, and I found an e-mail that... It doesn't matter what the man's name is now, he's a representative of an organization called "Justice for Dads and Dad's Parents". He sent over an e-mail question to the trustee about information of public importance, and do you know who answered that e-mail? In response, Bojan Marsican, who at the time had the post of adviser Rodoljub Sabic. Who's Bojan the Martian? The son of Dragan Marsican, at the time of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and Rodoljub Sabic was vice-president of the National Assembly. I don't mind Bojan the Martian, maybe he's a top expert. I don't mind that anyone's son, that you don't think I'm saying this for any malice reasons, but, you know, Mrs. Mandic, you can't come to the National Assembly like you came in front of kids who started politics yesterday. Some of us have been involved in politics for a long time, some since 1990, Maja Gojkovic has been in politics since 1990. Mircic has been in politics since 1990, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, etc. Marko Atlagic was still minister in Republika Srpska's government. People who started politics yesterday don't sit here. Now you've come to the National Assembly and you say, "Oh, no, they're lying to these advances, what political employment." The son of Dragan Marsicanin is employed as a adviser to Rodoljub Sabic. Dragan Marsican was president of the National Assembly, and Rodoljub was vice president of the National Assembly. You're telling us now there was no political employment? It's been as long as you want. I've cited one of the examples. Let us not lie, as the Service of the Protectors of the citizens of Sasa Jankovic has become the bed of the most angry political opponents of Aleksandr Vukic, so it was also the case with the Service of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. All of Alexander Wolf's greatest haters, where are they going? At Rodoljub Šabić's. Where's he going? At Sasha Jankovic's. Where's he going? In individual courts. And then we wonder how we get into a situation where the police can provide all possible evidence, for example, against the Cosmic, and the Court lets the Cosmic go and says there's no evidence. So, some things in Serbia don't work normally because it's not done in any serious state. You can't say now that Rodoljub Sabic didn't act like a politician. He at least acted as the Protector of the Citizens in procedures where information is of public importance, and he seemed the most classical politician. He couldn't get rid of it if he came to Serbia's political scene as a DOS politician. In fact, since 2000, as a minister, first as an MP, then as vice-president of the National Assembly, then as a minister, finally as a Commissioner for Public Information, he was a politician all along. It is only for this time when the Trustee drew on himself the mask of a godless independent organ, so that the Vlasi do not know, and when you take the report, especially this third part of the report, it is quite clear, as the palm of the palm shows, which Rodoljub Sabic was working for. What I'm interested in right now is clear to me who he was working for, how much money he got for it, because you can't convince me to ask the state how helicopters and planes were obtained, what were hundreds of Yugoslav Army officers in Kosovo and Metohija doing that pro bono for free, because you're a very safe man. I remember Rodoljub Sabic from the time he participated in the unprecedented hack of General Vuk Obradovic, when he invented that sexual affair that caused Vuk Obradovic to die, so we wouldn't lie. He was betrayed by the heart because no matter what he was in DOS, but he was a general, he was a serious man, he was a smart man, he was an educated man, he was, if I wasn't mistaken, the youngest general in JNA. I think he became a general at 33 or 34. They drove a man to his grave by inventing a sexual affair. Who? The Free Orlic, the ones who cried in the National Assembly, etc. and among them Rodoljub Shabić. They drove a man to his grave. If anyone was working in that DOS, if anyone was a decent man and had any good intentions to do with the state of Serbia, Vuk Obradovic was. And, look, one more thing, let me remind you of that, too. Vuk Obradovic was headed by a very important commission, which was meant to establish abuses in certain state bodies and public enterprises. And as soon as the man came up with some ticky data on the people at the top of the DOS, they invented that so-called. sexual affair. It's that affair, he drives the car, so with his left hand the woman's head turns in a certain direction, etc., so I don't get to be degutant now, but that's the truth. And Rodoljub Sabic took part in it. Now all of a sudden, Rodoljub Sabic, in 2018, in 2017, in 2016, to shake hands like that, and as an apostle, I am untouchable, I am independent, what this Risticevic is saying, what this Orlic is saying, what this Martinović is saying, these are thieves, this Marko Atlagic, he's a professor of the university, he's nobody, I'm a saint, nobody tells me anything, what money I got from the British, nobody can ask me what I need from 180,000 dinars. Vlado, give me your phone. Here, this is the vice president's phone. This is Nokia brick, Verice. Well, these don't even use kids anymore. This is my 13-year-old daughter, now that you bring them in, they'd say, "Dad, we don't know what to do with this." This isn't worth two, three thousand dinars. This is the phone of a man who was placed on a pillar of shame because as a doctor of electrical science, he teaches information at the High School of Medicine in Ćupria. That's what you wanted to know. That's what you've been doing. A man carries a phone that doesn't even carry children anymore. I have a phone, here it is, five years, since 2014, "Samsung" with two cards, a funny phone. That's what you've been doing. And now that I ask you -- what's Rodoljub Šabiæ gonna do with an 180.000 dinar phone, well, you can't ask that, he's an independent organ. It's all done by law. Cross the road to the presidency of Alexander Vukic. Let the man show you his phone, a little better than Vladimir Orlic's phone, a little better. But you didn't care. You were interested, and I stand behind it, especially in 2018, things that can safely harm the Republic of Serbia, especially the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, especially Republika Srpska, and you have done this, I do not say it personally, but it was Rodoljub Sabic, you have done this very, very tendingly and therefore you have to suffer criticism from the MPs. Don't take this personally. No one is waging a personal war against you, but don't expect us to remain silent while in Serbia an unprecedented hack and campaign against Alexander Vukic, against Nebojsa Stefanovic, against Alexander Vulin, against all, against the MPs of the SNS, just because we support the policy of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. I, Mrs. Mandic, will read to you, because these days there is an unprecedented campaign against Neboja Stefanovic and about how he gained a degree in Megatrend, who taught everything at Megatrend - Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic. Megatrend organised a course for 24 DS activists to run a political campaign. A member of the Fiscal Council, Vladimir Vukkovic, also from an independent institution, an extraordinary professor at Megatrend. How was that all right at the time? At the time, everything was clean. Megatrend was a great university. Boris Tadic there lectured, Vuk Jermic lectured, Snezana Malovic, lectured, organized professors Megatrenda course for DS activists. That's when everything was legal. That's when it was all clear. When Nebojsa Stefanovic said – e, let's deal with the fact that Dragan Djilas came up with almost two thousand squares of living space and up to 500m euros, then suddenly, this diploma from Megatrend was no good, and it was good at the time of Boris Tadic, and it was working at the time of Vuk Jeremic, and it was working at the time of Snezana Malovic, and it was working at the time when Megatrend organised a course for those from the DS. So, there's something wrong with it. There are double arches. And I think the Commissioner for Public Information should be involved. But you didn't do it. You have dealt with some other topics that are important to the citizens of Serbia, but you have dealt with these topics in a political and trendy way. That's what the problem is in your report.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57655	The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57656	I'm on the list as a speaker. I've been thinking whether to answer it or not. And, thank you indeed to my colleagues, Martinovic, Orlic, MPs Vjerica Radeti, for raising the level of discussion on today's point, I listened to them, I apologized, perhaps you commented well too, for raising a little level of discussion about this part of the Serbian public very important need for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to discuss in the plenary the report of the Commissioner. I am glad that the MPs have really seriously studied this report and that this has not become a mere formality to write down one plus in our agendas that we have that we have fulfilled the recommendations of the European Commission's report, but indeed, this is a good discussion of the work of Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic and his associates. What is lost most often on the one hand when we are asked to do something, which is to discuss the report, it has somehow started to mean that MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to criticise, but I suppose when they asked us to and recommended that we discuss the report, that this was to be done with silent consent and that we do not say anything as representatives of Serbian citizens about what they think about the work of the Commissioner for 2018, because there is no better democratic system still invented on the planet of the country than elections. In the Serbian citizens' elections, they choose their representatives and we are here to say on their behalf what they think of your work. There's no hard feelings. You have to understand that we are actually the voice of these citizens. Often when it comes to the work of the Commissioner, there is always some mask that the trustee is the only one in this country working on behalf of Serbian citizens who are talking to him for access to certain information, which let's believe they couldn't get some other way, a regular way, so that someone refused them, and then it turns out that the second-degree body of the Trustee is asking for it. You have to get used to it, we represent a number of citizens, huge, because SNS is the ruling party, not because she wanted to, but because trust has given us citizens to ask you about everything. So we're required to ask everything here. Thank you to Mr Martinovic for being a very brave MP in today's time in Serbia and for often asking questions at his own expense. Why do I say that, by the looks of it, at my own expense? Today, he simply has an offensive opinion in the public that if you criticize someone, and that is a certain layer of our society that claims to be an intellectual elite, you must be prepared to go through a warm rabbit tomorrow at best, that you will be characterized as the enemy of free thinking in this country, and on the contrary, you are developing that free opinion and saying what your voters think, I am your party, your environment, your environment. I just admire him for how persistent he is, because I think some of us have fallen off a little bit. You know what, it was terrible to criticize here, ask Commissioner Shabic anything. The next day you'd get a statement from his office if you were against this institution and you'd be dragged through such a certain media link and I'm convinced that tomorrow to the most or already today in certain electronic media because, well, we have some courage to keep on asking questions on behalf of the citizens. What I never got the answer, I was terribly criticised and attacked by Mr. Sabic, could not stop for a few days in criticism, he criticises the work of an MP. What's been going on lately? It takes a lot for representatives of Serbian citizens to imagine. I will ask you the same question – how much is the trustee's salary for today's information? That is what Serbian citizens, represented by SNS, are interested in. Is that a secret? I see that there are various issues here, very few citizens, and many, many different legal persons on the subject where who works, how, where, who is employed, and now we cannot ask the Commissioner. That's how it was, if you remember, the last time we spoke here in Mr. Shabic's presence. It was something terrible. I regretted one month of even asking such a question, because it is not easy being an MP who has the civic courage to ask those icons of modern times in Serbia things that my neighbor, my relatives, my friends, would ask you. Now to get out on the street, to say what you're interested in, I'm sure they'd say pay, the amount of pay, because most of the time we're subject to criticism, the MPs of this assembly, what our salaries are, how much food costs in restaurants, in the cafeteria here in parliament, are we traveling, that's okay. When we ask the trustee who we choose, it's a taboo topic. I'm not interested in pay, I'm interested in your salary, the average salary in the trust you represent. I don't think that's scary. I'm convinced that's what Milorad Mircic and my esteemed colleagues who are behind me are just not here to ask you. Mr. Sabic was elected in 2004. From 2004 to 2019, a really impressive number of years. I'm glad he managed to make a detour somehow. He was a minister, as far as I know, before that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so he was Vice-President of Parliament, so he performed political functions, and then he certainly has understanding for us who are proud that we are politicians and proud to ask the right questions on behalf of the citizens of our country. He never asked the question of the debate and of the review of the Commissioner's report until the government he belonged to changed. So by 2012, it was perfectly normal, quite all right not to discuss the report in the tide. Do you know when the report was first discussed both on committees and on board? It seems to me, 2013 or 2014. Until then, the father-in-law by Commissioner Shabic. He didn't ask, he didn't care. Somehow he was well in his environment and how he now asked one Boris Tadic, with whom he was together in power, when my report would come. No, the SNS considered this report for the first time on committees and then on the tide with its coalition partners. So that's my question, what about the reports from 2004 to 2013 or 2014? Then how'd it go? Who did you complain to? Where are the recommendations for us to consider them here? How come there was no criticism before even beyond the borders of our country? Here in our country, it was simply invisible, and the Trustee as an institution, in my way thought and citizens, the citizens would be much happier if he wasn't some rock and roll star, as it is... Milorad Mircic: A national. Yes, yes, or folk, no matter what, who loves what. He's become an estranged person with us, very famous. I don't know any trustees in Europe that have such a status of visibility, attention, media. Citizens would be much more pleased if it were someone who was completely committed to his work, and who doesn't have the need to participate and create a saint's role, who for the first time now heard that someone is involved in politics, he's some untouchable, to whom you can't criticize, any criticism. Here, I'm telling you, we're going to experience a warm rabbit today, whoever said something and asked. The total number, so I'm interested in money, like, usually, I like to compare the salary with us here in parliament. We're always under criticism, so let's see how many trustees, how many of us. We make laws. Do you know what our responsibility is? Huge. Here are people who pass laws and create what life will be like for ordinary citizens. I say to you, much greater than the believers. You work somewhere in the office, complaints, complaints, gathering information, extremely respecting you and your colleagues, that we understand each other, but we expect someone to respect here and us who are elected by citizens directly and to communicate with us with respect, because, I say the right place where you have the free opinion is just gone to parliament. Don't be angry when we're not applauding everything, but we want the right answers and we want a real fundamental debate on this report. That doesn't mean we won't adopt him. Maybe we will, maybe we won't, and that's also the freedom of the MPs. We don't have to do anything. We only answer to the citizens of Serbia in the next election, but we don't have to do anything. It is our good will to vote or not to vote on the political assessment of our parliamentary clubs, and then there is agreement or disagreement between ourselves. The total number you showed us is 382 solutions. That'd be fine. That's an average. I don't know what it's like in Europe. I don't know what it's like in Italy, France. It's just that these are some quiet, invisible people, they're not stars, and I can't compare how many citizens they need. I have to notice there's a very small number of 382 very physical faces here, a very small number. It's mostly different NGOs. Well, let me get one of them out of my head tomorrow, and I don't give a shit when they start shooting like this in my direction, so they're gonna shoot anyway. Yeah, well, you say it. Then in turn -- CINS, KRIK, a couple of citizens, the Independent Police Union of Serbia, it's all good, and again CINS, KRIK, the "Sloga" Police Union. That's what Martinovic noticed, and I didn't even notice that you were doing a service for an attorney's office. I've never really thought of what the trustee can do to help with his job. Well, it's a great honor for a colleague to think of it, and that's why he has a successful long-term... I highly respect him and thank him for showing us the way in which this can be done, but also everything related to the engagement of the Republic of Serbia's MUP in the territory of our southern province of KIM. An impressive database. Well done. Furthermore, the humanitarian law fund, on behalf of the citizens, probably, who they represent, is addressed by the VBA, the humanitarian law fund all of the Ministry of Defence. There's as many as you want. There is one interesting one, I don't know if you saw it, I don't invite you to a replica, but it seems to me in your extensive discussion that colleagues Martinović and Orlic didn't notice anything. Like what? The interest of a citizen, I think, was fraught with simple pain and concern about the organization, a truly magnificent and magnificent SNS rally in the Kombank arena. For the first time, I've heard that some citizen was interested in organising a political party meeting in the SNS state in this case last year, and then the trustee helped him with something about it. You should have asked us openly. We'd give you all the information you and that citizen anonymously. It's no problem. We organize meetings almost every day, because we are the largest and largest political party in this country. But I don't know, I'd like to see how they do it today and organise these gatherings by the same principle, to provide me with information about how an organized gathering is held outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues say one out of the zero five, one out of five, I don't care. They have no organisers, they very often do not report their meetings, which also seems to be in line with the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the rule of law that they are seeking, simply to show us the way. But it's still the first time I've ever seen anything like it that the trustee does. There seems to be human rights violations in one case. I hope that item is done in the right way. Says – The whistle addresses you to help gather information, and is sent to the special hospital "St. Vratsi" Belgrade. I sincerely hope you haven't gone into human rights for patients with mental problems, because here you're asked to provide information regarding clinical trials of medications, certain, in the psychiatric ward. How do you deliver it if you don't use data from sick people's charts? I would be very, very interested in that object 345. That's where human rights get in the way. I don't know what this organization is talking about. There's a lot of stuff here. One of those bitter tastes in your mouth. I'll back it up. It's no problem. I also have a censologist, probably. Warming Pancheva, Vojvodina Research Center, BIRN. It's mostly about the Army, about the military, the Ministry of the Interior. Like some almanac collecting data for someone, for those organizations they were looking for. I don't mean anything by it. I'm trying not to get a death sentence when they determine which one of us gets how much, but milder, because I've been explaining between the lines. But that's my job. Serbian citizens are asking me to be active and to ask the trustees when we have their report to explain their actions, to account. I want to encourage you, we'll probably pick a new Protector soon, encourage you to really turn to the powers you have defined in the law. I have to choose the words of an esteemed colleague. The competencies you have defined in the law, that you really turn to ordinary citizens who have certain problems every day in obtaining some information that is important to their lives, to their actions, and that they are flawed, as an important regulatory institution of politics. It was not the purpose of passing laws and elections, both the first and the next and some of the next creditors to be part of political action against the SNS, against citizens who feel free to think, against a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who freely demonstrate their will against the president of the state. That doesn't have to be done by the trustee. The trustee needs to do all kinds of other things. Don't stop us from having an open discussion and talking about your report and the reports we're going to have in the next two days. I hope that a journalist, journalist or influential tweeter, Mr Nebojsa Krstic, will come to you soon. Because you say here, you only said the citizens who spoke to you. Please look at the tweets, now former Commissioner Shabic where he says he reacted and when he notices something in the media, when the public is interested in something, so I don't know there's somewhere halfway there you're like his close associate and he. So I'm sure you've noticed that several times already the Twitter order of Mr. Nebojko Krstic has been lifted. I'm not defending him. He's a member of the DS, and if he wants to stay there, but just if I'm talking about the rights of the citizens, we're a little defensive about those who aren't our equalists. Yeah, if he was a minister, I really don't know, but I have to react to a phenomenon when four times someone's been running his operation and they're taking his social order, whether it's on Twitter or where it's being advertised, I don't know exactly, I don't have time for that. But, let's just say, this is interesting, and the last link that Professor Kirjakovic experiences seems to me, it's absolutely not like him and I, but I also noticed in the part of the discourse of our society that only they are right, that only they should all respect and listen, that Professor Kirjakovic is going through one media link of a certain part of our society that has been self-provoked elite, which has given himself a mission to make us all here who disagree with them enlightened, make us think as they do, and obviously have a problem with taking a different opinion both in parliament and in the media scene. So, when certain people here say something that doesn't agree with your users of your services, they have to experience the lynch and go in the best possible word, through a warm rabbit, or go home, to think carefully about themselves, about the fate of their family. You know, it's a very influential group of people in our society, who brings us back to some one-party time, and it's very cloudy, wooly times where people were isolated in camps and prisons because they thought otherwise. I ask you to commit yourself to these cases, even though the citizens have not come to you for help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57657	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word is Stanojla Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57658	I'll try to answer some questions we've heard. I apologize first for that tone, if he really did act like one, I'm neither such a person nor a politician by nature. It's just, I may have spontaneously reacted, as a professional, to some things I didn't think they were. In that name, I apologize. When asked who the trustee works for, whether he works for the citizens or works for the humanitarian law fund, CINS and others, here's what you can best see on page 41 of the Reports. Here we said - out of a total of 3,974 resolved complaints only in the area of freedom of access to information of public importance, therefore, resolved, the Commissioner resolved as a second-degree body, the citizens' complaints were 2,660 or 66.94%. So the largest number of complaints are citizens' complaints. There are also data on how many journalists are represented, how many union organisations, representatives of political parties, authorities, economic operators and others. Let me remind ourselves not only of this 2018, which we are talking about, but also in the earlier period, but also of the fact that even now the ruling political parties were also users of this institute, free access to information of public importance, as are now some opposition parties and it is undeniable. So there is no discrimination, and the Commissioner has to settle for anyone's appeal. I think it's just a misjudged conclusion based on this list that you mentioned, a review of the solutions, which is an integral part of the report. So it's about reviewing the unfinished solutions. On page 40. You have reports that the trustee of these 3,900 and some complaints in 1.004 cases ordered the first-degree authority to provide information to the public, and in about 1,890 cases it suspended the proceedings, because the authority itself did, when it found out about the complaint, in 436 cases it annulled the solution and returned to the re-trial, or it annulled the solution because it was not the basis for its adoption. So there's accurate data on how the trustee acted. Those 300 and some solutions are cases where no information has been supplied to the public, or where the authorities have not acted according to the solution, and this is the title of the review. So we didn't choose whether to show these or those, it's simply that list of solutions that remain incomplete. It was a matter of trustee's salary. The salary of the Commissioner has been established by the Law on Free Access to Information and is equal to the salary of the Supreme Court Judge. It is nominally 207.508 dinars. You know that the salary of the Trustee is less than the salary of the Protector of the Citizens and of the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency and of the salary of the State Auditing Institution, etc. I don't want to compare it, but, well, that's the data. This information is publicly available, it was published in the Information Officer on the work on the website of the Trustees. It was said that we had not previously pointed out that the reports had not been discussed before 2014. I beg you, look, you have all our reports on the Credentials site. In each report, you will find this finding, that the reports were considered only on the board or not at all and whether or not they were or were not considered on the tide and that it is necessary. So, on the Credentials site, look at all the reports from the beginning. (Vladimir Orlic): What does the report say? ) This report says what it says. Here, I will read the sentence again - The National Assembly has considered only three reports of the Trustees for 2010, 2012 and 2013, meaning that in the last four years, from 2014 to 2017, the reports of the Trustees were not the subject of consideration in the National Assembly. Which concludes that there is a discussion in the tide. Further trace of the explanations that the committees were and when they were considering, in what year, what the MP was reading, and that's all true. I apologize if that sentence is unclear. Maybe we should have repeated it at the end of the sentence again - in the tide, but I personally think it's quite clear, because at first it says, "The People's Assembly has been considering the tide." So we're talking about the tide. If there was a misunderstanding, I'm telling you, I'm willing to apologize, but the further text of the report is really very clear and specifically telling you what report on which committee is being discussed and when. You said I said there was no political employment. I was saying there really wasn't a job outside the law, I didn't mention political employment. It is true that Mr. Bojan Marscanin was one period shorter in the Service of the Trustees, but he left, unfortunately, I can say freely, unfortunately, the Service of the Trustees and is now working in a high position at Telenor, as a data protection expert. He was accepted after the competition. So this company also has persons in charge of protecting personal data and has a special centre actually dealing with the entire service that deals with these issues. There was a question, a solution was mentioned regarding a clinical trial or something, and a remark on whether the Commissioner had taken care of access to particularly sensitive medical data. Of course, when it comes to information of public importance, the trustee has never ordered the publication of any information such as this health data, therefore, and if this information is published, they are published anonymously, meaning no name or last name to whom they refer, because this was about statistical data, and not specifically about persons subject to the examination. So there's no concern that we're not paying attention, given that we're both protectors of both rights and we take great care to balance the relationship between these two rights and to appreciate whether there's a major public interest in favour of one or another right. You asked about the phone, there was a question about the trustee's phone. No employee has left the Commissioner's service without returning the equipment he's in charge of. This also applies to Mr Sabic and you can see for yourself in the documents on the return of equipment. I don't know if I have any more questions to answer. When we talked about who he was working for, whether for the citizens or, I say, you mentioned some of these organizations, I mentioned how much the participation of citizens is in complaints. As for the area of protection of personal data, actually the persons seeking protection are all citizens, and this in numbers is over 4,700 items relating to the protection of personal data, you can see it from the report. So he's mostly concerned with protecting citizens' rights. There was a question, that there were statements from the Commissioner that he reacted on the basis of knowledge, etc. In the area of free access to information, what I said, it acts exclusively by appeal, as a second-degree body, and in the area of protection of personal data it can act, because it has the authority to monitor, it acts based on the knowledge that there has been a violation of the law. So it can also work on official duty, it's probably some kind of case, where he found out one way or another, so he acted on official duty. It's only in the field of personal data protection. I hope I've answered all your questions, if I haven't, and I'm still ready to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57659	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57660	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. The National Assembly educates working bodies. The working bodies are considering reports, but the report on their work and on supervision, let's say the ministries, we are considering committees, not only the work of independent regulatory bodies, but also the ministries, and we are making up a report on behalf of the National Assembly, and we are delivering it to the president of the National Assembly, who delivers this report to all the MPs. What makes you think you're an exception? So the conclusion that we adopt is the conclusion of the National Assembly based on the Committee's report. Why do you think we have to put the report together on the tide? The report shall be drawn up at a session of the working body, the committee responsible for your work. The report is being forwarded to the president of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly distributes this report to all MPs, which is also the case in your work, and there is no need for your report to be considered in the tide. So, we are now considering the report of the committee responsible for your work, but you think that you are the only one, well, according to this National Assembly that discusses the reports of all ministries, all administrations, all public enterprises, so we couldn't make it five years to do all these jobs in the tide, so there are working bodies, and that is why Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Vjerica certainly know better than I do. So, for you, the committee is in charge, such as, say, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Ministry and we make up a report on their work, deliver it to the President of the National Assembly, who delivers this report to all the MPs. You'd like to be special, but you're special on salaries, receipts, cars and all the other privileges, and now you'd like to be special, if your report had to be considered in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57661	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57662	I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57663	Okay. Thank you. The word is made by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, just behind her, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57664	You just didn't answer one very important question – what about the reports of the Trustees since 2004, until the year we discussed on boards and the tide, because the first year was, you said, 2013 or 2014. So there is no sign at all that there was controversy in the public and Rodoljub Sabic did not complain at all that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia was not considering the reports. You didn't answer that. You have said again what we have heard and what is in the report of the European Commission, and what those who help to bring such reports are constantly honoring, although there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that we must discuss something in plenary, but that committees should discuss the reports of all the authorities in this country, including independent and regulatory bodies. This is the right way to discuss it. We can't help each other's heads by order. We have to discuss it. This is a debate, not just a salve of praise for someone's work. So, what about those reports? Why wasn't there any objections about not getting adopted? These are MPs' mandates and mandates, one three mandates since Rodoljub Sabic was first elected. Now how did the problem suddenly arise, when we discussed the reports, both on committees and on the tide? We had a break and it was for a valid reason. Mr. Sabic and Mr. Sasa Jankovic have allowed themselves here to stand up and leave the debate here at the tide and show how much they respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs who represent the citizens of Serbia here. It showed they don't care about those citizens of Serbia, that gesture, to stand up and come out. Someone asked them something, got or didn't get a word, not understanding what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is and what it is. Maybe that little salary of 207,000 dinars and those social privileges, that you're someone who can't be criticized for his work, gives a little bit to that passion, we're above, and you're some kind of MPs, you can be without you, except in the day of choice, because that's how we put them in a function. That's why you treated us like one. It's our fault, we've allowed it a little bit all of it, this yard of some kind, is there now some people who are above Parliament, above Serbian citizens, that you can't just say anything, ask anything, because the machinery will crush you, media and socially, of course. You didn't answer me. I am not happy with the answer, because you immediately moved to the year we discussed and nothing, you have not told me anything – why the reports were not discussed from 2004 to 2013 and where there are objections from the Commissioner and requests for such a thing. Secondly, we can discuss the European Commission's reports from that period, because we did not become EU candidates in 2018, right, but I also know that the previous government, at least verbally, has tried to convince us that we are on our way to the EU. And Sabic is on that path, so I'm interested in where those objections are, where are these reports, why hasn't it been discussed? Very clear. You must have data, as these data have been prepared, discussed only in 2014. Yes, here we are correcting that catastrophic mistake. For our sake, we are also discussing the citizens of Serbia who are interested in your work, but also the citizens of Serbia are interested in what is going on with these strong reports from 2004, 2012, 2013. Maybe it should be retroactively discussed here. We will be pleased to give our colleagues to see if our opinion, the opinion of the citizens, agrees with reports from that period that are probably full of praise compared to the authorities of the DS and their partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57665	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57666	This and these reports are really inspiring to the MPs because they can never speak very closely about what is written in the report, given the authority of these bodies, specifically today this Commissioner, but somehow there is no impression that it is working very closely under the law and that the Commissioner was doing what should be his basic obligation. The fact that it responds to the demands of citizens or legal persons, that's one part of the job. But we are interested in how it is possible for as many years as Sabic was, for example, the Trustee that no law was passed that the Trustee estimated that at least some provision should be examined, its legality and constitutionality before the Constitutional Court. We have submitted several requests from the SRS for questioning, establishing the legality of the constitutionality of the provisions of some laws, it is interesting that the Trustee, for example, did not need at least to react, to say - well, we join what they have submitted radicals, or we think this is not good, anything on the subject. It simply says that this function of the Trustee is absolutely political. Ninety-six public talks were made by the Trustee, he has the right to do so and it is not disputed, but what is the essence of these talks, 460 citizens misjudged the Trustee because they did not know that the problem they had is in the jurisdiction of someone else. If in those 96 public addresses, Rodoljub Sabic had taken little care of those citizens, so that he said something and what his jurisdiction was, that he had urged citizens to address the Commissioner in such and such situations, then there would probably be no such 460 wrongly addressed demands. What do we want to say? The fact is, and it can't be slow, that Rodoljub Sabic, who is appointed to this function as a man of politics, will be so with the next. We Serbian radicals are constantly calling for power, and for the previous and these, not to be hypocritical, to say, yes, we want this function and we are putting the man in whom we trust. That man doesn't fit on a branch. Of course it has something to do with that party, or the ruling parties, and that simply, it is a man of politics. Especially when it came to Sabic, who was here, the colleagues spoke, and the Vice-President of the Assembly, and the minister, and I don't know what all the functions he had, one of the DOS feathers, was, when there were no how many, he was in that, on the day of the five-eyed bulldozer revolution he was on that stage, etc. He's an absolute politician. In those 96 addresses to the shift of power, to the shift of the superlatives by the advances, he was in those first years, of course referring to this report, and so were the previous years, he mostly praised the authorities in his address, and then spoke to who he had the best co-operation with, who supplied the data, who did not deliver etc. When those to whom he didn't belong came to power then he started attacking the government, then no one in power was good, and no maltene was delivering the trustee's data, etc. It's just that it strengthens us in the belief that the Trustee can't, it just can't, here maybe it needs it in some other countries, but Serbia isn't mature for that kind of thing. We can't, we're not politically mature for such an absolutely independent organ. Besides, what do we need? I'm sorry, if you're doing a good job with that trustee in that position, you could have done excellent work in some ministry or some other state body, and that society really benefits from your knowledge and your experience. We have both the ministry and the courts and the prosecutions, etc., so all the competent authorities that could have done this, like, for the Commissioner's sake. There was also the mention of Vuk Jeremic, and Boris Tadic, what they were saying, what they were doing, etc., so we don't convince all of them now. I recommend to the general public and to my fellow MPs "Vikliks tells me", part two, the book of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, believe in the details, and we were also talking about Vuk Jeremic, and Boris Tadic, about their ties with the US Embassy and ambassadors, about how the Wolf represented himself here in public in one way, how he apologized after a lecture at the FPN representative of the US Embassy who sat among the students as an audience, as he said -- sorry, you know, I have to go public like this, and you know that Boris Tadic and I are NATO policy promoters in Serbia, etc. So now that I don't convince 1,000 is a side, I strongly recommend, take all the dear colleagues, especially you, so read it will be easier for you in a political struggle. Now, Mr. Martinovic, I really need to speak to you personally, I'm pretty sure you didn't think like this when you were talking to us, that when you explained that you advances didn't want to be remandists, that you weren't advocating lustration, etc. You didn't think we Serbian radicals were? Somehow, it seems to me, that kind of impression can be gained, so just to be clear now, we're not for rematchism. We're not into lustration. We have guilty anyone who has not done his job in accordance with the law, who has committed a crime in the course of his work. It is very simple and simple, and in this sense we call on the current government constantly, because you talk about how much a criminal Gilas is, what a criminal Vuk Jeremic is. Come on, let's see publicly, that here we all call on the authorities to carry out the procedure and that in the end we know how many of them are really guilty of how much who stole it, how much for a certain theft goes to jail, how much who gets jail, etc. Why can't you do that? First, because there's no political will, and secondly, it's not, it wouldn't be rematchism or lustration if you'd replaced the state's attorney. I don't know what those are of yours, you say some new principles of democracy, something that hasn't been seen before. We didn't think you were supposed to come, yeah, we won today, we're replacing Zagorka Dolovac tomorrow, no, you've been in power for seven years. Zagorka Dolovac, in seven years, a man alive has neither heard nor seen. If there's even a woman coming out of her apartment, is she doing something, and there's so much she'd have to do, you have to agree and accept. In that sense, we say, so until some point that you found her, let her be, if she's going to work, and if she doesn't want to work, thank you, goodbye. It's the same with other officials, because we didn't say we needed that Saša Jankovic, or this Rodoljub Sabic, the same first day at the meeting of the Assembly where you had the majority, mentioned. No, but when it came to their re-election, and you re-elected one and the other, then you should have said, gentlemen, you've done so far and so, and we don't think that's good. Your report indicates that you can no longer perform this function, it is too high to complain that they have left the session of the Assembly. So they're re-elected. They left the assembly session and you chose them again. So this suggests something else, exactly what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic said, as Mr. Martinovic tried to deny. So it's done by the European Commission's orders. They've been looking for these people, they've been looking for reports of their work now. But here, we don't mind discussing why not. You wanted some new kind of democracy, so you didn't want to replace anyone, so it's best that you left the ministers, which you didn't leave behind, so let's see that democracy in the election changes, and the government doesn't change anything. It's not normal, you know. If someone goes to the election and gets as much support as you get, it's normal to change, I repeat, not to lute, not to change, you fire people, but there are certain functions in the state, which are absolutely tied to power, and it has to be done, clearly and loudly, openly to the people, and no one would blame you for that. Here, I'd say in one part, even a banalized story, there was talk of phones, etc. It is not disputed, at least as far as we're concerned, that Rodoljub Sabic has a phone, even of 180,000 dinars, as far as we know, it's only questionable whether he bought that phone with his own money or bought it from a trustee's register. That's controversial. You don't even have to brag about your colleague Orlic on that old phone right now, we all have these modern phones, how to say the MP can't buy a decent phone. Don't let the people tell us what you people are saying. We were also talking about the trustee's salary. When it came to the salary of the Protector of Citizens, we then proposed to the ruling majority that when their Protector came, and he came, that they show well that they had been throwing money before them and that the Administrative Committee cut the salary. That's what we're looking for right now for this new trustee they're going to choose. If this is a large salary of 207,000 or so, let the Administrative Board reduce it, because it is the responsibility of the Administrative Board. I found it interesting when you, too, Mrs. Mandic, said that the trustee's salary was less than that of the Guardian of Citizens, than the salary of the State Auditor, you listed four five functions, where you said the trustee's salary was less than those functions, but you didn't say it was twice as high, for example. from the salary of the MP, from the salary of the Prime Minister and from the salary of the ministers, and almost twice as much as the salary of the president of the state, not twice as much, but rather higher. This problem really exists and we hope that the Administrative Board will correct these mistakes, at least in the part where the Administrative Board is in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57667	Thank you, colleague Radeta Word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57668	Thanks again. It's not, Mrs. Radeta, closely related to what you said, but to the answers I just received from Mrs. Mandic. [[Faith Radeta: Is it a replica because of the phone?]] A few things. First, Mrs. Mandic, you confirmed my words, right, when I read here? On which committees were all discussed the report by the Commissioners 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, you confirmed that I gave good information, among other things, the information contained in your report. I think we've solved any misunderstanding on whether or not this report has been discussed. I reacted, to remind you, because you said, there was neither on the boards nor on the tide. I believe it's a mistake. So we've determined definitely how things are. It's been discussed on committees. Mrs. Mandic, that means it was discussed in the National Assembly. Is that what we understand each other about? The committees are the working bodies of the National Assembly. To come to the committee hall to discuss his report, Mr Sabic was coming to the House of National Assembly at the House of National Assembly, in front of the working body of the National Assembly, chaired by some of the MPs, whose members and deputies were MPs, to whom he also addressed when the Report was sent to the National Assembly. That's why these people are also discussing this report and that report is being discussed by all other interested MPs, both on this and on each other. Just like we do today, only the room is bigger, they ask questions, says what they disagree with, says an additional explanation. It's the National Assembly, and it's all done in public. If the essence of the concern was Sabic's whether or not the public will be able to read or hear or learn about his grades that, once again, I repeat, are to a startling extent politically and in a startling number of political ones. It's all the National Assembly and the public knows it all and there's always a lot of journalists everywhere, let's just say those who wrote him praises. What's the big deal now? To what I have responded, it is a matter of trustee's relationship with the National Assembly. When the Commissioner says, and he has spoken many times – the National Assembly has not discussed my reports, we must respond to that. When this is found in a report that, imagine now, was sent to the National Assembly, it says -- it wasn't the National Assembly that discussed it. I'm sorry, that's what we have to react to. It's a matter of basic respect. At the end of who chooses whom. Does the National Assembly choose that trustee? Is the National Assembly responsible for reporting or vice versa? Whether he commands the National Assembly and says: "Now you must put on the spoils, for I am not pleased and agree with it, and you have not debated it. We did, but he wants a little different. I said it in my opening statement today – it doesn't make any sense, since you offered an apology. For something, an apology to the National Assembly needs to be heard, due to this relationship, for the need to speak truth, and to show proper respect. Because of this relationship, we have probably listened to exactly the sides in our January so far, so here, the European Commission or other people who are representatives of the EU in any way. Why don't you discuss it in the National Assembly? Every time I can't wonder how we can explain the same thing to people. Well, we're discussing it. Was it on the board last year? Now it is clear to me, and then someone comes and says, "You know what, they don't discuss my report, and no one could possibly assume that this man so flagrantly speaks lies. I guess that's why some of the noises don't bond and the misunderstandings we have. So for the fact that we have now established here, which you have confirmed, I think we should hear an apology to the National Assembly, a much more important apology to the citizens. So, in their interest, we should work on both ourselves and the Commissioner elected by the National Assembly, as well as that Protector of Citizens elected by the National Assembly and whoever you want. These citizens listened to serious untruths, brutal falsehoods and insults, and the National Assembly, when we talk about a relationship with her, deserves an apology for having the right to comment on whether or not the committee is allowed to adopt any amendments, should it be this much or so to discuss any amendments? It's in this report, the one we're discussing at this session today. I'm not going to hear the answer reasonable and explained from where he's entitled to act because we all know, and you and we know, that the law doesn't make that right, that it's not something that can be considered a professional relationship, it's a whim, it's a personal attitude, but it's still a yen, it's not acceptable. Does the National Assembly need, I ask, to take orders from Shabic, or whatever his last name is, the Trustee? The answer is clear, of course not. Where did this relationship come from? Where does it come from that it is not good co-operation or relationship with the National Assembly? I ask nicely, ask again, is it true or is it not true that the Administrative Committee has come out each time to meet what the Trustee asked for on the subject of your human needs? It says, yes, but it doesn't have any effect or which formula you used because we like to read things today precisely, but without practical meaning. So people make the decision you're looking for, you say -- well, that's irrelevant. I think this is an unacceptable relationship. Once again, if we talk about what kind of relationship we should cultivate and what it deserves, it requires an apology. Secondly, to return the correct relationship of our party to the President of the Administrative Committee to hear from that Shabic -- "you are a lying bastard" or MP Risticevic. That's probably the kind of thing an apology would have to make, first of all, I'm Shabic myself. I don't expect you to do it for him. He himself, for him today, is probably the NGO he is working for now or one of those who are jointly rallying with the organisation, Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, does not matter. Perhaps they, rather than you, should speak of that kind of culture and language of their cooperative, partner. As far as the institution's relationship with the institution is concerned, that's the thing we need to discuss today. What questions are raised that apologies are directed to those who have been offended and who have been lied to, in particular, the question of an apology to the public. The phone, Mrs. Radeta, I mentioned it because it's in this report. When he's in this report amongst those funds obtained from the budget, that means it wasn't bought for private money, or Sabic, or anyone else. It's an institution, an institution, an office, the service paid for by the money that was received from the budget, which she decided on, again, this National Assembly and that's the national money. When I say that I can't understand that at the same time they complain that they don't have enough understanding by the National Assembly and the Committee, who approves of them all, and they repay them by insulting them in the most disgusting way possible. Everything is approved, it's coming out everywhere, and they say -- but we don't have enough and someone here won't understand, they won't support it, etc., and then they spend 180 thousand dinars on one phone. I couldn't help but ask, guys, why? Here, let's know that there's that phone left in the office, let someone else or no one else use it now, no matter, let's keep it there, it's all right, my question is, why are there 180,000 dinars for a phone at all? I didn't brag about this, Mrs. Radeta. I'm just not hiding that I have this, I'm using and it's doing great. I don't understand why a phone like this or a similar phone couldn't use Shabic or whoever, but instead, it took 180 thousand dinars of people's money to spend and then said - we don't have enough money for basic needs, no one understands us and our funds are being denied? Why not one like this or something? It was better than this, it's not controversial, but the phone is the phone. What does the trustee's job have to do with having the latest possible phone of 180 thousand dinars? It's possible that from that salary, which you say is modest, he could have bought the same one, but he didn't. No, and the budget paid for it. That's where my question comes from. Does anyone need an apology for that? Maybe only if he says it again next time - we don't have enough money. You can't say we don't have enough money to spend on this kind of thing. Once again, I haven't heard what they're wasting themselves for? What's the reason? Was there a job tied to what he had to do from his area, the trustee, and he could have just done it on that phone? I'm afraid we all know the answer. As for the various completely inappropriate assessments, which I called politics and I will continue to do for obvious reasons, my question was directly - should an interested citizen start a topic to deal with Shabic? That's how I understood the previous explanation. Now you say no, he probably found out one way or another, and I quote you, Shabic, so he acted on official duty, when it comes to some interesting topics. Found out one way or another, so you acted on official duty? When he says we're facing sanctions, what kind of official duty is that, what's that got to do with any serious business? There's no service, no duty, and there's nothing to do with the law, and what it really is is the job of the trustee. We all know, he wasn't interested in any citizen, nor did he find out in one way or another, the man was involved in a political campaign and he was making political statements that come out completely unwise and completely in the rank of scurvy... Have we been sanctioned? Here, come on, does anyone know if there has been any embargo against Serbia in the past year? The answer is completely obvious. We talked a year ago -- don't scare people of these things, tell these other people, these Jeremics, that we mentioned earlier. You already know what kind of people they're talking about and how well they've boasted, how they've lived up to Serbia and how nice they've been, but that level of diletinism in politics stands out of words -- and now we're going to get sanctions. When I see something like that coming out of the mouth of the trustee, I can't help but wonder what this is, where did this come from? So there's no explanation, and if there's an apology to be made, once again, to the citizens because someone was scaring them, and Shabic was scaring them with this, that apology should be heard. If we're talking about excuses. You know who else? To all others who have suffered the insults I have quoted to you today - and to the Anti-Corruption Agency, you have heard insults, various ministries, government, President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, National Assembly Chairman, Mrs Gojkovic. All of these were situations that represented Shabic as the man who comes from the position of the Commissioner. It's all over these interviews, statements, etc. was presented as a trustee. In that capacity, does he say things like this? Well, then those apologies should be made. I don't want to ask you what kind of interested citizen came forward, so he forced Shabic to act on official duty and to say on the subject of the Serbian government that there is nothing more terrible than arrogant ignorance in action, that's the Serbian government. So, the government of Serbia should call it a blatant ignorance in action, and then in further response to the question of journalists deepens into negligence and evil intentions. To allow someone to tell themselves – the Serbian government is boastful of ignorance and has evil intentions and is careless, it is a direct insult. It has nothing to do with official duty, it has nothing to do with the law or with interested citizens. For these things, an apology must be made. Since he did it on behalf of the institution that you represent here today, you think about whether there is a need for you to react in that direction. He'd have to do it himself anyway. As far as relations with citizens and ministries are concerned, whether or not Sabic, also in the period when he was in office, on November 25th 2016, I watch the words he exchanged with the Ministry of Construction. So, did he or she not scare the citizens again, the public upset the stories that there are controversial things and the possibilities of abuse in the Housing Act that he previously gave consent to and therefore reacted to the ministry and said – this is incorrect? You made a positive statement, and then you went out in public, not talking to us – there are possible abuses here, that people get upset, confused, what is likely to react similar to what someone expected to react when they saw that photo, that I'm not raising you again – a broken face, blood going down their cheeks, insinuation that someone attacked someone, some damage done, Belgrade destroyed, against a man. So is this type of public reaction expected for both the first and second time? The building ministry didn't deserve that kind of treatment, I think, and because of that, if we're talking about who needs an apology and why, I mean, let's say, this ministry is about this case. I'll give you maybe two, three more examples, because there's no point in us talking about this all day, because this is so much. There's so much we can really spend all day on it, but, say, the Department of Defense. The defence ministry also because Sabic again, only this was in May 2018, literally reacting to the official insinuation that the defence ministry would abuse people's personal data from their private mobile phones. Remember that? You've received an official statement from the Department of Defense. No one thought of that. There is no logical reason why anyone could have found any instruction in the form of orders or anything like that, could have concluded -- someone wanted to abuse people's private data now, but obviously it was here to upset the public, to send a message -- something terrible is happening here, I will prevent it myself, the Commissioner himself. If you think an apology should be made to an institution, let's say, this ministry should be made of such a move. The interior ministry, whether it was last year, because of claims that the police showed up at the door of the Commissioners, that it was some kind of totally unacceptable pressure, to turn out to be no police at all. There was no police at all, a member of the MUP. So, a harsh untruth that should again serve to upset this public, to send propaganda messages again, and it's not a job, it's not a law, it's not an institution. It's, once again, politics. The Ministry of the Interior should also be addressed for this reason, with a request to respect the apology, if you're already asking who needs it. The Department of Justice. The ministry of justice, most likely referred to by that completely untasteful and inappropriate finding of some arrogant ignorance, and on the subject of a law that was being prepared and for which Sabic was very personally interested. He wanted his proposal, perhaps others from your office involved, I don't know, in the preparation of the proposal, but that his proposal, as he wrote it, would be adopted in the Assembly. Nothing else that's out of the question. And that's why the Department of Justice that was involved in preparing the proposal, past people as barefoot. Now listen to this. Is it true or is it not true that Sabic received from that Ministry of Justice an invitation, culturally, politely, as it would be, to be a member of the task force, to participate in the work of the Working Party for the Draft Law on the Protection of Personal Data, that, if he wanted to make his contribution, he would say everything in his heart, and that he refused, saying – it would be a conflict of interest? Would it be a conflict of interest for me to participate, given that I'm the Commissioner? Now, watch this, the ministry gets attacked because it didn't adopt that proposal that he made, how he wrote it, and then it's not a conflict of interest when he makes the whole proposal, and you don't want to be a member of the task force because it doesn't come to your mind, it's below your level, for God's sake, that you share a job with other people, and that someone else's wondering about you, that you still have to respect someone else's opinion or that someone decides about yours, because it's a conflict of interest, and it's not when you write it all yourself. This kind of media account with the Ministry of Justice over the media deserves, if an apology is already offered, one thing it deserves - I'm sorry. It wasn't right, it didn't make sense. I do not want to call on you to apologize to the EU, although I see that Shabic reacted sharply and was very dissatisfied and because of the fact that the EU, or those institutions that engaged in the preparation of this bill that I spoke about a few seconds ago, eventually gave consent, or said that she supported that what was prepared as the final version at the end and found in this tide that someone had clearly longed for, considering it as a stage, although it is seen as being on this stage, if it is considered a stage, it can be passed when such reports and such things and content are dealt with. But they went badly, too, and he said to them that I don't know what they were, disappointed, etc. Since I see that impatience reaches a certain level, maybe it's time to take a break. I wanted to say the following at the very end – it is in our interest to build serious institutions. It is in our interest to support what is a good interest of the people on our part and as we have done, allowing all necessary capacity-seeking to be provided, as we have done every time any assistance from the National Assembly is required to come out, so we want to have an institution, therefore, the Commissioner for Information of the public importance of personality data, which properly, quality, highly-professionally does his job. And with her, we absolutely want to have good communication, to cooperate in the best possible way. Before you, in the previous two weeks, representatives of various independent institutions, organs, bodies passed through this room. And it was important for us to hear from each of them what cooperation they had with the National Assembly. We care for a good understanding, because it is a joint job, a business that represents the well-being of Serbian citizens. That's what we want to do, that's what we want to create in our country, and that's why we criticize these things. It is our obligation to stop the private interest from dominant over what needs to be citizens' interest, to stop politics in an institution that should be all but political, because it is the opposite of the citizens' interest, and also the law, if we are going to talk about the law. After all, will such a kind of relationship make some humanitarian law fund angry, some Krikovi, Birnovi, Birodi, whether or not the heavy heart will be affected to stay Vuk Jeremic, with his team who, you know what she was doing to Serbia-Montenegro, Dragan Gilas with his 500m euros in full pockets and company accounts and these others, we are absolutely not interested and affected. They can think for themselves as much as they want to be some top elite, that they're ten times better, better, smarter, so they're worth something more. We were never intimidated by such ones, never discouraged by them. And that's why you'll always meet on our side only determination and a persistent insistence to respect the law, to do the institutions, to guard the interest of this people, this people to whom we all belong, no matter how much someone considered ourselves more valuable and better than us who thinks they're credentials, and you know it all by heart, just because, like, they've solved it, so I think, or maybe because they have a 20 or 30 times more expensive cell phone than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57669	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57670	Thank you. Obviously, my discussion was not clear or clear enough, although I think it is and I conclude it from the answer that was sublimed by Mrs. Mandic, and also now I see from fellow Orlic that some things were not understood and understood in the best way. Well, one, only one of the harmful things is a decision made by the former Commissioner for Public Information is a solution made under the Data Protection Act issued by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration prohibiting publication of information on party personality and other participants in court proceedings. Mr. Sabic himself said the surveillance procedure was open on official duty and based on several reports showing him the illegal scope of the personal data processing carried out under the Serbian courts' internet portal. I read this so there wouldn't be any confusion, because these are quotes of part of the statement, which is important for further explanation. Namely, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia had the opportunity to check through the portal of courts until Mr. Sabic brought a ban, to check whether a criminal case was being conducted, whether the participant in the litigation proceedings was a legal person. Mr. Sabic, according to his own recognition, has decided, on the basis of an emergency from those whose names were apparently on the portal, to prohibit the ministry of justice from publishing those data. Now I ask – is it a coincidence that the ban on publishing these data, which is completely illogical, because court proceedings are public, except in specific cases? So, each of us can, during court hours, enter the courtroom, escort the trial, without notice, without special permission. So there's no secrecy against whom the proceedings are being conducted and she's fully secure about it. In front of the front door of the courtroom, he writes against whom the case is being conducted, if it is a criminal case, and if it is a litigation, who are the participants in this litigation, whether the courts are of regular jurisdiction or commercial courts. What exactly is the truth about all this? I am absolutely sure that those individuals who initiated Mr. Sabic had a keen interest in preventing the publication of data on those against whom they are being led, say, criminal fraud proceedings for selling a bunch of double apartments around Belgrade. So, until that moment, an ordinary citizen could take and carry out a check on whether whoever he wanted to buy the apartment is under the influence of the law for a criminal act of fraud or a litigation against him precisely because the apartment was under dispute or for some other reason. At whose expense is this solution directly taken, and apparently in complete contrast to many of the legal regulations governing the public of the trial? Even the opposite of the Constitution, I agree, colleague Jojic. So this is the answer, Mr. Orlic, to your question. Mr. Sabic reportedly protected criminals, frauds, thieves and those who could use it further to damage Serbian citizens by selling apartments to them by who knows how many times or lead them astray. This prevents any honest entrepreneur from getting into business with someone who is being prosecuted for various frauds, commercial crimes, criminal proceedings or litigation proceedings. There's not enough apology here for something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57671	Thank you. The word is Stanojla Mandic. Here you go. (Petar Jojic: Replica. My colleague responded directly to me. Mrs. Mandic received her word. Just let her go on. (Petar Jojic: Just a minute to answer. I have already given my word to Mrs. Mandic. I'll give you my word, by all means, you're right. Don't worry. Here you go, Mrs. Mandic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57672	Let's just go back one more time, and it's been mentioned why we didn't discuss the 2005 report until 2014. I gave the answer, but I'll try again. So, in all these reports, it is pointed out and in each of the following reports it is indicated that the report has not been considered in the tide, and it is written in every report that has been published, which is available on our website. So you can see for yourself. So no authority has kindly looked at the trustee institution since 2004, so here and all these reports, as you are now saying are critical, criticising power, etc., have been in a tone to talk about law violations, to speak about which institutions have violated the law. So it's not true that it applies only to this current government, it's always been about, you know. Here, see for yourself, look at these reports, which are written in tone, all the reports have followed cases in which it has not been conducted, which contracts have not been made available, which information has not been made available to the public etc. So, not just in these reports. This finding regarding co-operation with the National Assembly and this finding in the report that the committee's consent to the number of staff in the Commissioner's service is of no practical importance. That's also explained in the report. I'll try to explain it one more time. Why is it of no practical importance? Because the Treasury gives consent to the trustee's personnel plan and if we don't get consent, like we didn't get that year, we couldn't hire any men. Therefore, this decision of the Administrative Board did not have practical significance, because we could not implement it, and on the other hand, the budget is limited. So if we get consent to the personnel plan, then we don't get enough budget funds or vice versa, so for these reasons, administrative ones, basically this agreement remained. The Management Board had an understanding and always gave consent, but it was conditioned by available budgets and therefore could not be realised. Otherwise, as far as other co-operation is concerned, if we absorb this issue of reviewing the report, we expected and therefore I said that this co-operation could have been better quality in this legislative function of parliament. Because we were very much in a position to give opinions on the laws that you have considered and adopted. These topics used to be very sensitive, such as the Law on DNA registers, etc., where we specifically wrote letters to MP groups and drew attention to some important things. We have done this, let's say, and when a new Personal Data Protection Act has been passed, specifically on a member of the 40th that was very problematic, and it has been established now, and they say in these studies done by experts from our legal profession, from the judicial profession and this study that we received two days ago from the European Ministry of Integration, which I mentioned at the beginning, and it explicitly states – it is particularly pointed out that a member of the 40th Law is not in line with the general regulation and the police directive, as well as with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice, etc. What we have pointed out is that this is not in line with our Constitution and that is why we expected Parliament to have more understanding and to accept such suggestions from the Commissioner and that we would not be in a position to submit proposals for the assessment of constitutionality tomorrow. It was a question of why we couldn't submit. We're putting up with them. If this co-operation had been better quality and if these views and opinions and suggestions of the Commissioner had been more respected, we would not have been in a position to submit these proposals for co-operation. For example, the proposal for a constitutionality assessment of the previous Data Protection Act was immediately adopted practically after the adoption of that law in 2008, and it would be unnecessary for the government to be the same then, i.e. that parliament had heard of what we indicated, to prevent it from being adopted. I'm afraid it's going to be the same now with the 40th and some other provisions. There was also talk of a relationship with some ministries. The Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, Buildings, etc. is mentioned. The Ministry of Defence and the case that the Commissioner reacted about the use of private phone employees in the ministry. The trustee did react upon the union's application from the ministry, and in that sense he gave warnings because he had information that when entering certain rooms, phones and codes would be left to those phones. He therefore warned against the use of personal data contained in telephones outside the consent of those whose data is concerned, or whose phones it is. The ministry followed the Commissioner's warning and withdrew that statement from the site. I don't think there was any misunderstanding. There was another union application after a while. We have checked and determined that your allegations do not stand, because the Ministry has acted in accordance with the Commissioner's warning. The Department of Construction and the Case of the Housing Act has been mentioned. We have warned because we have had a very large number of citizens who simply feared these future powers of building manager, whether they will process their data, whether they will rat out who betrays apartments, etc. In this regard, we have drawn attention to the fact that personality data can only be processed on the basis of laws or other valid legal basis, facial consent, etc. Therefore, our question was – is it reasonable that all this information that the building managers should process, is it necessary, is it necessary? Every processing should be based on the necessary data. With regard to the Ministry of Justice and the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, generally when it comes to working groups which educate the Ministry and which educates the Executive Authority, the Trustee has never formally been a member of any group, but has therefore participated and responded to the call of each ministry to give his opinion and to give his suggestion and to help get a better regulation. Sometimes it's accepted, sometimes it's not. So, that remark really doesn't stand. Nor was there any kind of war in the sense that they would win now the Commissioner's proposal or I don't know, the model of the law proposed by the ministry, so we all care about getting as good a law as possible. It was absolutely not about whether one or the other, but about getting a law that would be in the interest of the citizens. As for the portal of the courts. Therefore, the Trustee did not prohibit the portal of the courts, he banned the processing of certain data because there was no legal basis for processing these data. Our Constitution clearly states that the processing of personality data can only be done if it is prescribed by law, if there is a valid, means a legal basis and that is the only reason why we have to act. Whether it's useful or not, that's another question now. But if it was considered necessary, then the law governing the work of courts should prescribe it, and then the Trustee would certainly not react and would not take such measures, as is the case with the Law of Infractions or many other laws where such a basis is prescribed. I think I've been able to answer most of the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57673	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic, of course, as I said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57674	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed Komlenski, as a lawyer and as a good lawyer, told you that the public was firstly guaranteed by the Constitution, and in addition by the provision of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed, protection of personal data, collection, holding, processing and use of personality data is guaranteed under the law. It's this law you're following. It is also prohibited to use personal data outside the purpose for which they have been collected in accordance with the law. Now, what your colleague told you, Komlenski, that is, other than, remember this, this is the Constitution that says – except for the purpose of conducting a criminal procedure or protecting the security of the Republic of Serbia in the way provided by law. If you have forbidden the Ministry of Justice to publish information against whom it needs to be or are being conducted or criminal proceedings are being conducted, you have come out of the scope of your jurisdiction. They're abuses. And, if you've been dealing with affairs, those discussed by Professor Aleksandar Martinovic, remember you have criminal responsibilities and the DA has to check this out and have it in mind, and about that a little later if you let me. I was forced only to show you that the Constitution prescribed that, except in criminal proceedings, data could be published on criminals, tycoons, thieves, robbers, traitors against the state and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57675	Thank you, colleague Jojic. With your speech, we'll finish this part of the work. I'm setting a break now for an hour. We'll continue work at 17.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57677	Thank you. President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of an institution called the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, the honourable MPs, as we consider the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Public Information and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018 submitted by the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning and the Protection of Personality Data on 25 March 2019, cannot be taken away from any impressions. First, everything would have been different, in my opinion, and everything would have been fine if Rodoljub Sabic had done his job and had not been involved in politics at the same time. There is no news for Serbian citizens that, like formerly fake citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic and respected Rodoljub Sabic, who is respected, I must say, it is mostly only in that circle of users of the Twitter social network that he did not block, because he blocked all the unthinkers, so he remained enlisted in one group of his contemporaries, among them he was respected. So, the Commissioner for Public Information Rodoljub Sabic, in addition to his job, was involved in cheap politics, flat-rate and trendy real-evaluations and instead of doing his well-paid job, organized some surveys, quizzes, entertainment on social networks. I've had personal experience with him, unfortunately negative. Very often on these same social networks, he took away the right to speak and freedom of mind to all the citizens he disagreed with, simply blocked them. So, the unthinkers with him couldn't have been in the middle for long. He even allowed himself once, and perhaps more, but once certain, to prohibit Serbian President Alexander Vukic from answering journalistic questions, and thus, instead of his work, he was involved in politics, using cheap demagogy. With such actions, he only collapsed, like his friend, formerly fake Citizen of Sasa Jankovic, an independent state institution. In my deep confidence, it's not the job of the Protector of the Citizens, and it's not the job or the Commissioner for Information of public importance. The other thing, whose impression I can't get away with, which I'm very interested in these days, not only me, I see a large number of other citizens, is that the schools ended those who attacked Nebojsa Stefanovic and who received these diplomas, i.e. What their diplomas are. Who gave them those diplomas? Who gave them the knowledge with which they managed to bring the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia almost to bankruptcy, almost to ruin? These are all people like Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and their current Pauli Bosko Obradovic, Sergei Trifunovic, etc. Now that we're talking about this issue, I'm very interested in it, because I think it's real information of public importance, what diplomas they have, who gave them these diplomas, who completed colleges and schools, and that they were so successful at the time they were in power and ruled Serbia led the country almost to ruin. How did such great experts with diplomats manage to steal millions of euros, destroy thousands of factories, crush millions on the marketing of the yellow transition robbery of Serbia, leave hundreds of thousands of workers without a job, put in charge of Belgrade, bring Serbia almost to bankruptcy, steal everything that could be stolen? Where did they get those diplomas? Who were their teachers? Who taught them that? Now, that information of the public importance of me and the citizens of Serbia and how they are interested these days is of great interest to us, not to the private political views of Rodoljub Sabic, but we will certainly talk about it more these days, there will be opportunities. As for Nebojja Stefanovic, who they are attacking these days, I will finally say one thing, Nebojsa Stefanovic is for them, for Dragan Gilas Nebojsa Stefanovic is Nikola Tesla, Dragan Gilas who has, as far as I know, a degree in engineering. Here, and I've been, and that's, in the air force, I've finished the Air Force Technical Academy, we're colleagues in a way, he's got 500 million euros, I'm a former officer and I'm still a tenant. Or Vuk Jeremic, who since high school was somehow led in his career. His professor was Boris Tadic. Later he graduated in theoretical experimental physics at Cambridge University, and then five years later he mastered the state administration at Harvard. Well, the people are very interested in who led him through his career. Who else in high school takes someone through their careers to become, one day, a foreign minister or more? The money he gets, we'll talk more. Sergei Trifunovic, an actor, graduated from the Faculty of Drama Arts and instead of representing culture, he is a typical example of unculture. Luckily he showed up, otherwise Bosko Obradovic would be... Or Bosko Obradovic, there he is, and he is fourth from that team. He graduated from the Faculty of Philology, graduated in Serbians, a man would say – a cultural man, well-educated, etc., he is the image of rudeness. Among the MPs, there is the opinion that there is no basic cultural education. So let him come here and deny me. We can talk about it on the subject, and so on. I think that these days and how we listen with attention, we will try to find out how they gained their diplomas, how with these diplomats and with that expertise they managed to bring Serbia to ruin at a time when they were in power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57678	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57679	I thank the chairman. I have carefully read the report of the Commissioner's Office for Public Information and listened to your address this morning, Mrs. Mandic, in the opening section. For me, when it comes to the Office of the Commissioner for Information, it's a key two things. The first is, the complete depoliticalisation of the institution and the second, to bring that institution back to the citizens. The report is undoubtedly with a political connotation whose main aim is to present that the rule of law in Serbia is not at some level, that Serbian institutions do not cooperate sufficiently with the Commissioner's Office for Public Information and to ignore and reject your recommendations. Even with the conviction that the Serbian Parliament was not considering your reports. It is true that it has not been the last few years but 14 reports have been discussed and this report is also being considered. I must immediately tell you that the amendments to the laws you mentioned this morning in my opinion should not be controversial, if a working group is formed, if all relevant institutions are consulted, if an adequate public debate is organised and all actors can say their opinions, it should not be disputed and because they are also recommendations from European institutions. So, in my opinion, the report is too critical. Perhaps he's realistic, in my opinion he's not, because he doesn't assess himself, he's not self-critical, and there's no information in him that the trustee's money for information of public importance or how some people are employed, and yet I agree with you that the capacities of that institution should be increased. I had a personal unpleasant experience in 2009, so ten years ago, with Commissioner Sabic when I personally called him for a contract signed by the then Telecom with RTS, and all of the dilemmas in my head were removed, and then I realized that he had his own political favorites and that this office was used for their cover-up or their stretching. The key moment for me was when Mr. Sabic was, in a way, indirectly running from that position for, or he was, the mayor's candidate at one point. With circumstances and criticism of public opinion, he gave up on it and the culmination of everything was at the end of his term when he published his picture that he had been attacked in the city centre, so when he failed, he gave it up. So I expect your institution to increase capacity, to do its job. I expect from the new Commissioner and all of you who are in the Office of Professionality and Expertity, because the institution is an independent institution of the Trustee for information of public importance and how Serbia needs it, but in one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57680	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word now comes from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57681	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the guests, when you look at the history of World War II who was able to process and collect information about citizens, I will remind you that it was above all OZNA, that is, the Department of the Protection of Citizens and Peoples. Afterwards, the State Security Administration is established, after becoming overgrown in the State Security Service, and then in the Security Resor as one of the two security reactors at the MUP and this State Security Resor and the other Public Security Resor. As an acquaintance of those services I've worked in for a long time, I can tell you that these data collected and processed could have been used exclusively for state purposes. The question of whether or not there was abuse may have been discussed, but all the data collected in this way were collected in a safer way and could not be traded with them. When it comes to the law and the report of the Commissioner, the law is addressed, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. Now, if this is the Personality Data Protection Act, what it has to do with planes, helicopters, tanks and other state institutions. It doesn't matter. If it is true that those institutions and those zombies have sought information from the Trustee and that they have received such information from the Trustee, they should verify and compare their request with the report and the notification of what is contained in that notification or the report to the applicant. Is there an abuse? If such cases were, as Dr Martinovic said, the question arises, is this how the interests of the country's national security and defence are threatened? As an SRS MP with other SRS MPs, I request that the Personal Data Protection Commissioner be removed. We don't need him. The results and consequences they can produce are inconceivable. I'm not saying gentlemen that you're sitting here, I appreciate your presence, but someone could have sold that information to collect data, and those data are of interest to national security. Then there can be unsightly consequences. The Act on the Protection of Personality Data in Article 1 provides – this law regulates the conditions for the collection, processing of personality data, the rights of the person on protection. So, what concerns personality data. Jobs protecting the personal data that performs? The trustee. There are no trustees here. It is not prescribed by law, nor by the Constitution. Article 2 sets out the objective of the law. To remind ourselves, it won't be too high. The aim of this law is to ensure that, with regard to the processing of personal data, every natural person is protected by the right to justice and other rights and freedoms and privacy. Now I'm asking you again what Mr. Martinovic said, does this have anything to do with this if this is a norm legal with airplanes, helicopters, Saval or anything else? It doesn't matter. It only has to do with personality data. In Article 3 of that Act, paragraph 3 is prescribed - Data processing is performed, each action taken in relation to data such as: collection, recording, copying, copying, copying, transfer, search, classification, storage, separation, cross-section, security for certain purposes, storage, adjustment, detection by transfer and other means of action, procedure, concealment, transfer, etc. According to the provisions of this law, the authorities are obliged, meaning, the state body of the autonomous province, the units of local self-government and other bodies of public importance that can deal with these matters. Data to which this law does not apply, it is a processing for historical and statistical purposes. Now one question for you gentlemen-- did the Humanitarian Law Fund ask you for information for historical and scientific research purposes? I'm not sure that's gonna happen. It'll be more likely that these data are required to be used, and it's not only to surrender to foreign intelligence services. It's a consent process. You have data processing with consent and data processing without consent. Whoever agrees to process his data, he must make a statement, that statement must be confirmed, earlier at the court and now has to be certified by a public notary. He can call off that statement anytime. Data processing by the authorities. The authorities shall process the data in order to protect the interests of the state and the people and shall process them according to law. The only thing that can be asked is, I don't know if you have that information, did you have requests from the data collection agency by the detective agency? Did you happen to have that kind of information that the detective agency is looking for information and is it being delivered to them? (President: Thank you, Mr. Jojic. ) If these data are delivered, it should be verified.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57682	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57683	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I would just like to look back on what my esteemed colleague Jojic said. I agree with one part of his exposure, and one part I disagree with. I do not agree with the part where it says that the Republic of Serbia does not need a trustee for information of public importance. I think it is necessary, but a trustee who will do his job in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We don't need a trustee like Rodoljub Sabic. We need a trustee who's going to do those jobs that are prescribed by law and nothing more than that. What I'm also saying is, at the beginning of this report, you have, Mr. Jojic, one very interesting, on page 13, a statement of the Trustees. He says five authorities have refused to provide the trustee with the requested documentation for insight. One of these cases referred to a press appeal against the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia concerning information on the value of the purchase of certain helicopters and aircraft from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus. In the process, the Ministry did not provide the Commissioner's request for re-examination on three occasions. The ministry first conditioned the Commissioner to explain his request for insight and to instruct the Ministry in the process of obtaining insight into the requested documents concerning what the Commissioner pointed out to the Ministry of Authorisation under Article 26. The law on free access, etc., to information of public importance. So it is very symptomatic that the Commissioner is dealing with something that is deeply affecting the security of the Republic of Serbia. There's an important law that I don't think is mentioned here today, and that's the confidentiality law. This Data Secrecy Act was adopted in 2011 and it degrees certain data as a secret, as a state secret, as strictly confidential, confidential and internal. More or less, it's a regulation that exists in every country. No country in the world, not in any country in Europe, except the authorities of the military, the Ministry of Defence, the president of the state, or the head of state, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, has the right to gain insight into that kind of data. (President: Time.) I'm done. What is my question - why is Rodoljub Sabic so interested in how did the Serbian Army manage to secure planes and helicopters from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus? As I am interested, and why has Rodoljub Sabic insisted so much, and you have this in this third part of the report, I have counted 11 requests from the Humanitarian Law Fund, in addition to those 88 requests from one law firm on what conditions are certain citizens of the Republic of Serbia employed in the MUP and working in the territory of KIM, you have 11 requests from the Humanitarian Law Fund, where the Humanitarian Law Fund, read Natasa Kandic, addresses Rodoljub Sabic in connection with information on officers or former officers and officers then the Yugoslav Army about their movements and activities in KIM 1999? That's also information that's certainly very sensitive and our question that we haven't succeeded on, here all day long to get an answer -- why did it interest you? I understand that it was of interest to Natasa Kandic and you understand what reasons, but why did Rodoljub Sabic insist on it so much? So he knows what these people could do in KIM in 1999, to defend the state from aggression as officers. But in 11 cases, Rodoljub Sabic insists that those persons were quoted for the tax on what they were doing, where they were staying, what activities they were dealing with at KIM in 1999. This is all happening in 2018, when Natasa Kandic, which is also not accidentally threatened by the opening of a criminal case against former Chief of Staff Ljubisa Dikovic, whom Albanians at KIM, along with her, are accusing of allegedly committing crimes against KIM. So, it is not enough that the former authorities delivered to The Hague tribunal, General Pavkovic, General Lazarevic, General Sreten Lukic, General Vlastimir Djordjevic for alleged crimes on KIM, but now we need to expand the face circle. Now, for the crimes at KIM, according to Natasa Kandic, Ljubisa Dikovic, former chief of Serbia's general staff, and now needs to expand the circle of the face, to somehow create an impression in both the domestic and foreign public that Serbia, as Vuk Jeremic told "Spigl" in 2008, is actually responsible for happening on KIM, that in fact, Slobodan Milosevic, through the military and police, has committed crimes against the Albanian population over KIM, and that NATO's intervention, or NATO aggression, has been justified. On that background are all these requests from the humanitarian law fund and you're absolutely right. The Humanitarian Law Fund did not seek this data for either historical or scientific reasons, but for political reasons not to further spread the circle of persons in the Republic of Serbia allegedly responsible for crimes against Albanians at KIM. It's a big question if this is going to fit. I personally don't think the campaign against the Serbian Army's officers will stop. I hope that the new Commissioner for Public Information will have in mind his constitutional and legal jurisdiction and not only the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, but also the Law on Privacy of Information, because we are the only state during the former regime, during the DOS, which is all its archives, we have placed all of our data that were bearing the appropriate confidentiality mark on the plate, which has been massively misused, primarily in The Hague tribunal, but God also by the military foreign intelligence services.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57684	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57685	Ladies and gentlemen, you're right, Mr. Alexander. However, the road must be stopped. How do you get in the way of the humanitarian law fund and Natashi Kandic? That the Attorney General should take appropriate measures. It has been reached by a voice which is motives and its interests and which are its actions, which are specifically related to the security of the state and cannot be tolerated anymore. That it deals with how Serbia organised, above all, protecting its population, sovereignty and the security of its state, it is not authorized. No one gave that right to her. That the Commissioner asks the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent resolution ministry that in both ways and from which the state of Serbia in the interest of protecting its territory and its integrity and defence and strengthening its defence forces has acquired planes and other equipment, it does not belong to its jurisdiction and it must be responsible for that. The trustee must take care of what requirements he accepts, which he rejects, because he is authorized. If a request is filed that has no legitimate interest, then there's nothing to talk about, it goes back to toilet paper, what she's looking for. Therefore, I hope that the new Commissioner will get serious, understand what the state is and what the interests of the Republic of Serbia are, because this can no longer be tolerated. Getting out of the scope of the provisions of this law is overruling the authority and abuse of the official position, for which it is appropriate. We can't tolerate it anymore. The red line, and in this country, you see, these structures are, above all, an extended arm of foreign intelligence services. On the other hand, the former regime, as you said, and military and security data, gave everything and handed it over to the NATO Pact and foreign intelligence services. Those who advocate breaking Serbia and making its position difficult do not deserve legal protection. They have to bear sanctions. Therefore, Citizens' Protector, I ask him to take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whoever is elected, and take the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and just stick to those frameworks. Anything else if this new Protector, or the Trustee, works differently, has come out of the framework of the Constitution, has come out of the framework of the law and therefore has to suffer the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57686	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Right on the line, Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57687	I agree, Mr. Jojic, with almost everything you've said, just one little addition. We mentioned the Privacy Policy. The Commissioner for Public Information has completely lost sight of this law and you are absolutely right when you said that he has repeatedly misused his official position. In Article 9. The law on free access to information of public importance, item 1 point 3 - The Authority will not allow the applicant to exercise the right to access information of public importance if it seriously endangers the defence of the country, national or public security or international relations. Therefore, not only does the Data Securitisation Act prohibit the supply of these data to unauthorized persons, but the Law itself on free access to information of public importance in Article 9 clearly states that such data cannot be provided if the defence of the country, national, or public security or international relations is seriously compromised. By completely ignoring Article 9, Rodoljub Sabic insists on doing so in this report in the third part, where he mentions cases where authorities have failed to act on the request of the Commissioners, says 88 requests from a lawyer's office about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are employed in the MUP and are working in Kosovo and Metohija and 11 requests from the Humanitarian Law Fund on the stay and movement of individual officers and officers of the Yugoslav Army in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. I fully agree with you that this is a flagrant violation not only of the Data Privacy Act, but also of the law on free access to information of public importance. By the way, I was with some of my other colleagues a few years ago, it was in the previous term, in Mali Hall held a session of the Security Service Control Committee, where Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic together, on their own initiative, or by official duty, asked the Ministry of Defence, from the BIA, something no reasonable man would ask for – a schedule of the Serbian Army troops on certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and especially on those parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia that are bordered by the administrative line towards Kosovo and Metohija. They had to the white foam, as the people would say, asked VBA directors and defence minister, then Defence minister Bratislav Gasic to deliver to them the unit schedule, which is located in what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular insisted on those units of the Serbian Army deployed in the area of the administrative line towards Kosovo and Metohija. Not only did they seek out what units they were, but they're a number of units that they have guns with. I couldn't believe it. The director of the VBA could not believe that in the state of Serbia, two state authorities, one Citizen Protector, and another Public Information Commissioner on the Security Control Committee are looking for such a type of data. That's not done in any serious state. It is an attack on national security, especially given the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. In doing so, don't forget, Mr. Jojic, that same Sasa Jankovic, who had given us the sense of his rights, about how he was threatened, how the competent state authorities didn't supply him all the necessary information, how he was blocked in his work, all the time of his mandate, you can check it through the MUP, he had on the front window of the car, otherwise, he had an official car A6, Audi A6 automatics, on the front window of the car, I couldn't believe when people were talking to me, then when I saw it was really true, means, on the front window of the car, what the people on the driver would say, he had paper on which it was that vehicle with the registration marks team and the team, which I was used by the Citizens of Sasa Jankovic, the police under no conditions on the road could stop him, not once in the Republic of Serbia, he was a local, regional, highway. A man can drive 250, 300 an hour, he can step on people, the police can't stop that vehicle. The man had it on the front window of the car. So that's the haughtiness of the unknown proportions. The same Saša Jankovic was imposed, if you remember, by Mr Atlagic, by Alexander Vukic to appoint him Prime Minister. So we had two men who allegedly were independent state authorities, in fact working directly against the interest of the Serbian state. And what they did against the interest of the Serbian state, they boasted. This one was driving an Audi A6, probably Rodoljub Sabic was driving in an official car similar to the stamps, if not in the same one. This one was driving a car that the police should not have stopped under any conditions, because my God, his Majesty Sasa Jankovic is driving, and Rodoljub Sabic buys a telephone of 180 thousand dinars. Then you ask yourself, wait, is it possible that these are people who, every day by Twitter, attack MPs, ministers, the president of the Republic, and you realize that they are hypocrites, that they are people who speak one thing, and in a whole other way they act. Imagine, Mr. Jojic, that you and I are driving in a car with a notice to the police that this vehicle cannot be stopped. Imagine if we were looking for, here, me, as president of the parliamentary group, from the Secretary General of the National Assembly to buy me a phone, Srdjan, come on, please buy me a phone of 180 thousand dinars, come on, buy me one. It doesn't occur to us. These people, they did it, as the people would say, dead cold. We've dealt with people like that. So, the task and current Protector of the citizens and the task of the new Trustee whom we hope to choose in the most recent time is to strictly adhere to their responsibilities prescribed by the Constitution and the law, and that the Protector of the Citizens should never be the new Sasa Jankovic, as the new Trustee must never be what Rodoljub Sabic was.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57688	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on line, Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57689	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Martinovic, if 5% of what you stated is true, then the public prosecutor had to react a long time ago. On the other hand, the question is, why isn't that car stopped and why isn't the driver out of traffic? It's the Home Office's fault, because it has the authority to do that. There is no law on the security of traffic and a provision saying that someone can stick a label on a driver's license and say, "Well, this vehicle cannot be stopped, this one and that one can be driven." It's not in the law, it's nowhere. These data are required, Mr Martinovic, to pay attention to what I am saying, please, the data required specifically for the deployment of the Serbian Army units to the south of the Republic of Serbia is a spy affair. It's a spy's work, Mr. Martinovic, because it wasn't collected for humanitarian purposes. This is being collected for spy purposes, to hand over data to the enemy of Serbia, possibly to the Shiptars, Albanians, and not to list others who can use it to weaken the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and its security. I'm sure there was room for a public prosecutor to react. I'm sorry he didn't react, and it's not too late now, because exactly the trustee has the information, who asked for that information. E, he must come to answer, to answer the question before the prosecutor in the investigation or before the major tomorrow in charge of a criminal trial, to answer the question to what purposes he sought that information on the schedule of units of the Republic of Serbia's Army. The public prosecutor has to hear this right now, ask the Trustee for all requests and get information on what purpose that information was used and to find these information authentic, whether he left a photocopy or he gave it to the foreign intelligence service. Therefore, Mr. Martinovic, the SRS, I, as the MP of the SRS, ask that the ruling coalition immediately inform the Republic Public Prosecutor, that the Republic Public Prosecutor is asking all the requests that have been filed by them, to say, I do not want to list them for who they are, nor who they are, but all those who have not had the authority, nor the need and have not proven a legitimate interest in that information and that information, must be accused of spying, even in an attempt, but the question is where these data ended. I can't put in any remarks from the gentlemen of this institution, because they're not concerned with this, it's about a boss who's legally the only one who's authorized to take care of the data, and then he's looking for data on the units, so he's got to go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57690	Thank you, colleague Jojic. You'll get a chance again, probably. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57691	Thank you. Well, here, Mr. Jojic, let me refer to what you said about the prosecution, just a little reminder. So, on 27 September 2018, Rodoljub Sabic, as the Commissioner for Public Information, called the Serbian Government by his lack of knowledge in action. He is interviewing the newspaper "New Magazine" and, among other things, says – the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has filed 46 lawsuits against the Commissioner. So you don't think the D.A. knows anything about what the Commissioner's doing. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office filed 46 lawsuits against the Commissioner, says Rodoljub Sabic -- it is indicative that practically in all cases the repeal of the trustee's solution is about information related to the suspicions of committing war crimes twenty years ago. Now, look out, what's this all about? Here, Rodoljub Sabic is placed in the service of the Humanitarian Law Fund and someone investigating war crimes, of course, Serbians, which took place 20 years ago. What law says it's a trustee's job? Not at all. However, he felt that no one could do anything to him, that he was completely unlimited, that he could do what he wanted and that man was doing research into Serb, allegedly Serb war crimes committed 20 years ago, which means in Croatia, BiH and Kosovo and Metohija. When you connect this interview, which was given in 2018, with the fact that in the same year 2018, the humanitarian law fund in eleven cases through the Commissioner for Public Information, which means Rodoljub Sabic, sought information on the movement, residence and activities of officers and sub-office officers of the Yugoslav Army in KIM in 1999, then you are well aware that it is one activity that was directly directed against the security interests of the Serbian state, and especially the Serb people who remained to live on KIM. So we've dealt with people like that. One more thing to remind you of, which I'm sure you know. At the time, Sasa Radulovic publicly told him that Sasa Jankovic, a former Citizens' Protector, asked him to join the Free Citizens' Movement, to form a coalition with the Free Citizens' Movement because the Free Citizens' Movement and DS have, according to Sasa Radulovic, a parallel, secret intelligence service that works past the official intelligence authorities of the Republic of Serbia -- BIA, VOA and VBA. Those were the words of Sasa Radulovic. So, Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic asked the Serbian state for information that they knew in advance they couldn't get it and then when they didn't get that data, they made the affairs that the state authorities allegedly wouldn't cooperate with them. It was Sasa Jankovic, done by Rodoljub Sabic. Rodoljub Sabic called on Twitter a few minutes ago, and I don't know if it's over that 180,000 dinar phone or otherwise, where he says that what we promoters are looking for in the National Assembly, which is that the prosecution examines how BRODI, this alleged research house, has come up with data that SNS voters are mostly members of the older population, means over 65 years of life, and that they are poorly written. As you can see, Alexander Vukic today published an authorial text in "Politica" and as you can see, what our people would say is a piece of cake and tail on Alexander Vukic, as he was allowed to say that there is some quasi elite in Serbia, and indeed there is. I just asked how the Bureau, how could anyone determine the structure of any party's electoral body when the right to vote in Serbia is under the Constitution and the law secret? You don't know who he voted for. How can the Bureau know who I voted for? How can BRODI know that Wolf is voted for by over 65 years of life and half-written people? Let's not talk about those other people who have insulted those people openly so they can't say a word because they're crazed in the head, because they're mentally retarded, because they live in the mahales, etc. What's this really about, Mr. Jojic? Because of the weakness of you so-called. Civil opposition, which is actually the former regime, they have put all possible printed and electronic media in their cars in Serbia. Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic were in their cars, and all of them were the same political group, who had the task of fighting against the power of Aleksandr Vukic and did not choose any means, including Alexander Vukic as a politician but also Aleksandr Vukic as a son, as a father, etc. (President: Thank you. So it's a very dangerous phenomenon. Those who whine and cry over the lack of media freedoms in Serbia have all the media available, have TV N1 which has been campaigning against Alexander Vukic for 24 hours. They have "Today" available "Time", available "Nin", available to ask God, here is this new magazine, "The Weekly" etc. They have available any possible and impossible printed and electronic means of public information that campaigns against Alexander Vukic, against the Serbian government, against Serbian government ministers, against MPs and ultimately campaign against the state of Serbia for 24 hours and cry all the time that there is allegedly no media freedom in Serbia. Now he's in charge of the coup, and we'll talk about it a little later, Nebojsa Stefanovic, because two days ago at a press conference, he said he would start collecting evidence of where Gilasu over 1,600 square meters of living space and how he could have made 500m euros from 2004 to 2014, so in ten years. On that day, there was an unmistakable campaign against Neboja Stefanovic and how he allegedly had a fake degree in Megatrend University, and at this Megatrend University the lecture was held by Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Snezana Malovic, professors from Megatrend University in their timely training of DS activists. That's when everything was fine. That's when everything was legal. There was no problem at the time. At this Megatrend University, many DS personnel and all other parties formed from the DS were also educated, but now there was a problem when Nebojsa Stefanovic publicly said that he was moving towards an action to collect evidence of the assets of Dragan Djilas, now he is suddenly a controversial diplomat of Nebojsa Stefanovic. In 2014 and 2015 he was a controversial doctorate, now he is a controversial diploma, in seven days he will be a controversial and elementary school. Just don't touch the property of Dragan Gilas. Anything you can say, and you will tell your mother to Serbia-Montenegro, to laugh and to search through the ambassadors of Serbia-Montenegro to Moscow for prostitutes in Moscow hotels, to provide 29 rooms at St. Stefan's. It's all great and it's all good. It's all European and it's all by democratic standards. When you touch a question that cannot be touched under any conditions – from where Gilasu so much property comes from, that is the moment when the homeless campaign via N1 television, through a number of printed media, through political parties to which Dragan Gilas is involved. independent bodies: Sasa Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic, etc. (President: Thank you. ) Therefore, it is a highly organized undertaking to undermine the legal and legitimate authority of Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57692	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard the data from Mr. Martinovic, which refers to the 46, as I understand it... Mr. Martinovic, has 46 lawsuits been filed? Mr. Martinovic, I'm sorry, I didn't understand, you said 46 lawsuits were filed against Commissioner Sabic? (Alexander Martinovic: Appeals in the administrative dispute. ) The question of the court’s reaction is now being raised. What's the result in court? Who tried them? Who's been handling these charges? How'd they end up? Were they thrown away or are they still standing in drawers somewhere? Mr. Martinovic, since it is high-level secrecy data, the state here has to react. The authorities of the state must react to both BIA and MUP, as there has been a violation of the law, there has been abuse, and there have been harsh, harshest abuses. Well, imagine in one democratic state of Serbia, that there is such an institution that works directly against its state and that the state does not take any action to protect itself. It can't be tolerated anymore. The interior ministry, without delay, has the right to file criminal charges under the Code of Criminal Procedure for abuse and disclosure of secrets, violation of the Code of Secret Information, violation of the Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this cannot end only on this discussion and debate in this House. There must be the processing of the one who has to answer to the court, that the citizens of Serbia know what his interest was, what is motive and where he used that data. Any authority addressed by the Trustee and not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data must be rejected and cannot be acted upon. What you have presented today, such data, relating to first-degree espionage, must stand in the way and immediately, without delay, should set up the Trustee and allow that institution to operate in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57694	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Right on the line, Dr. Martinovic. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57695	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Mr. Jojic, I'm just pointing you to page 11 of the Commissioner's report, I think you'll understand what this is all about. It is that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office filed charges, in a administrative dispute, so to the Administrative Court and on page 11 of this Report, it is said that 101 cases were brought in the Administrative Court in 2018 against the resolution of the Commissioners, 49 of which were brought by the Republic Public Prosecutor and other authorities, and 54 of them were brought by the applicants. After that, you have this one part that's very interesting. Now I'm going to read it, and it's interesting for you, as my fellow MP, and it's particularly interesting for the citizens of Serbia. It says - decisions by the trustees, which the Administrative Court annulled and returned to re-determined, except in one case, refer to cases in which the complainant is the Fund for Humanitarian Law, against the Ministry of Defence, in which information is sought on the professional involvement of individual members of the Ministry of Defence in the Yugoslav Army during the 1999 conflict in Kosovo, as well as their status today, or movement in the service, in Serbia, if they are still active. I don't think any particular comment is necessary in these words. Maybe Mrs. Mandic could explain to us what this is all about. I'm absolutely clear here. Here Rodoljub Sabic was an exponent of the Fund for Humanitarian Law, an exponent of Natasa Kandic, who was interested in what professional members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army did during the 1999 conflict in Kosovo. I said today, Serbian, what they could do, do their job as officers, officers and soldiers, defend Serbia at KIM from NATO aggression, from the Cypriot terrorists from the KLA and from the regular army of Albania, who attacked the territory of the Republic of Serbia at those border crossings, i.e. the karauls such as Koshare, the June Mountains, etc. Pashtrick. So, what did these people do? But now it's not enough that we delivered as a state to The Hague tribunal people who defended the state during NATO aggression. The head of General Lazarevic is not enough now, the head of Nebojsa Pavkovic is not enough, Sreten Lukic is not enough, the head of Vladimir Djordjevic is not enough. It's not enough that Vlajko Stojiljkovic, the man who killed himself here in front of this building in 2000, did not want to suffer the shame that such bastards delivered him to The Hague tribunal. So that's not enough. Now let's move on. There's no end to this. For some people, there's no end, it's not enough that you've done it all, i.e. Former regime. When I say the former regime was done by Vojislav Kostunica, it was done by Velja Ilic and Boris Tadic. You remember Velija Ilic. He's got his boss or deputy head of Parliament here. Watch out for human misery, that man who keeps some "it" press conferences every day and spits on Alexander Vukic, remember for sure, he offered an army officer and police officer that, right, Marco? (Marco Atlagic: That's right. ) To surrender voluntarily to The Hague tribunal, and he will buy them a new Octavia Shkod as minister. Do you remember that? Well, that's a shame and a shame. It never happened anywhere in the white world. The minister of the former Serbian military officer, the Yugoslav Army and the MUP, volunteered to go to The Hague, and then at the expense of his family's ministry, he will buy a new Shkod "octavia". Happy Lukic took the pajamas from the hospital bed to The Hague tribunal. They say he surrendered voluntarily. General Zdravko Tolimir, a sick man. They did the same thing with Ratko Mladic, a sick man who is unable to participate in the trial, is unable to monitor the trial. The man had a lot of strokes, right, Mrs. Mandic? Tell me if I'm wrong. In 2007, Zdravka Tolimira was arrested in Belgrade, transferred by boat to Drina and said he was arrested in BiH and BiH, unless I was wronged by a helicopter from Tuzla, a sick man, Zdravko Tolimira, taken to The Hague tribunal. That's what they were doing. It's Vojislav Kostunica's radio, it's Velimir Ilic's radio, it's Boris Tadic's radio, it's Vuk Jeremic's radio, it's Dragan Djilas, it's people who teach us a lesson today on patriotism. They know how to defend KIM today, they know how Republika Srpska's interests are defended. They know everything when they've ruined everything alive. What they didn't know in 2004, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, when they did all these things. Wealthy people. Vlado, come on, please find me that interview at Spig. I couldn't believe it. Do you know what Vuk Jeremic told the journalist "Spigla" about Ratko Mladic? He says -- a matter of days when a man will be arrested, we have issued a million-euro reward to get to him who provides us with information on the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic. Do you know who else did it? Before Vuk Jeremic and before Boris Tadic it was done by the Germans, it was done by the German command of Serbia in 1943. You must remember, Mr. Jojic, here is historian Marko Atlagic, the newspaper "New Time", which went out in Belgrade in July 1943, publishing two photographs. The communists cut off a photograph after the war. So, two photos, in one photograph is the character of Josip Broz Tito, in another photograph is the character of General Draža Mihajlovic. And it is said: 100 thousand Reichs of gold shall be given to him who brings the living or dead Joseph Broz Titus, or Draž Mihajlovic. So, since 1943, since the German occupation, this wonders that he came from lunch, so from 1943 to 2008, no one has thought to blackmail in the money of the Serbian head. It was done by the Germans during the occupation, and it was done by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. (President: Thank you. Here I am, just a little bit, Mr. Marinkovic. Here it is, says Jeremic - we have a million euros at our disposal, or in dollars that is a million, almost a million and a half dollars we have promised for information on Mladic's whereabouts. Here it is, the January 2008 Spigl interview. From 1943 to 2008, it never occurred to anyone that in gold, he was making a ransom for Serbian heads. It was done by the German commander, General Paul Bader, and it was done by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. Shame on them and shame on all those who support them today. They were ashamed of everything they did to the state of Serbia. Then you're surprised that Wolf Jeremy is laughing with that Rocen, he says-- We are the mother of Serbia-Montenegro. Yes, well done, you've done a great job. And you Serbian citizens, who call the credentials, the old ones, the stupid ones, the sick ones, to live by the machines, etc., remember what these people were doing and when the 2020 elections come, think hard about who you're going to give your voice to, whether Alexander Vukic or those who have been calling blackmails for a living Serbian place.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57696	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The line has Petar Jojic, so Mrs. Mandic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57697	Dear ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Martinovic said concerns you. It concerns us, because we are now coming to know how many enemies Serbia has and on which fronts enemies work and in whose interest. You see, as a lawyer with some humble experience, I could understand that there were 46 criminal charges, not this in the administrative procedure for repealing a decision. However, it is obvious that the state authorities were very mild in the Republic of Serbia. Many have tolerated the enemies of Serbia from doing what they are doing. When it was delivered to The Hague tribunal, it is certain that Vojislav Kostunica was one of Serbia's biggest enemies when he delivered 40 generals and 40 politicians and eventually was delivered to the President of the Republic, Slobodan Milosevic, the only example in the world, so that the mechanics could come to power. Mr. Martinovic, I have a big grudge, which is late by the Justice Department for making a law on the origin of the property? What is said about profiters, tycoons and criminals, and nothing is done, there is no law on the origin of property, it is a failure of the state of the Republic of Serbia. You see now what Americans do, put pressure on these domestic traitors, to solve the question of Being. The Genesis brothers came into line of the KLA, armed and trained to kill Serbs and now the Americans are asking for an executioner to be found and convicted. The Americans are pressuring the justice of the Republic of Serbia so that five generals and senior MP officers are retired and charged with burning down the US embassy. Tomorrow, that trial begins, and I'm one of the defenders of that general. Therefore, you will see how this procedure will be conducted, whether it will be just and just. I think the state must take action against enemies who are working against the interests of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57698	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word is Mrs. Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57699	Thank you. I would like to explain, indeed, that there have been some serious accusations in terms of abuse of position, etc., by the trustee institution and to explain a little bit of authority in this matter and in relation to the application of the Privacy Policy. So the wrong impression is that it's the trustee who gets the documents that are classified as a state secret and then forwards them to whoever he wants. In fact, it's about the legal authority of the prescribed Article 26. The law on free access to information of public importance, under which the Trustee may request when there is a dilemma, when it is necessary to determine whether the complaint is established, whether such information should or should not be given to the public, to establish, on the basis of an examination of that document, the facts and to decide on the appeal. So that's why he needs that authority. This authority is based precisely on security certificates that employees in the service, who come in touch, who solve these cases have and who have received the National Security Council. Therefore, all these people have passed security checks and received appropriate certificates handling these documents. So, in practice, when we ask for such a document, for example, for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence, a document on the audit carried out by a budgetary inspection was asked, firstly it was denied to have access to that document with an explanation that it was a classified document, I don't remember whether it was strictly confidential or a state secret, but after asking the Commissioner to be delivered to see if the whole document really needs to be denied to the public or some part of it could be given. The Department of Defense delivered the document and then we realized that there were only two, three data that needed to be protected, and these are some data on the types of weapons that were purchased. So we also worked in the Ministry of Defence and then Minister Aleksandar Vukic declassified the document, removed the code of secrecy and made it available to the public. Such a procedure is also prescribed by the Law on Free Access to Information and the Data Securitisation Act. Otherwise, the Commissioner's office knows very well how to deal with secret documents and knows very well the regulations that have been adopted, which regulate the procedure, and therefore strictly respects all these procedures. It has also been mentioned that Article 9 is being violated. The law on free access to information and that information will be denied when this information would endanger national or other security, defence of the country, etc. That's right. This is written in Article 9, but before Article 9, there is a Article 8, which says that none of this exception is automatic and leads to automatic denial, to restrictions on the right to access information, but is precisely the scale that is more difficult, whether it should be in the interest of defence to protect that information, to deny that information or not, and thus is done in practice. As regards the cases mentioned in the Commissioner's report, it is true that the Administrative Court found that there were insufficient arguments in these cases for such a decision and returned to the retrial. He did not say that these decisions were illegal, nor that the Commissioner made the wrong decision, but returned to the retrial and the Commissioner would appreciate those views, which is required under the law to stick to the positions of the Administrative Court in the follow-up procedure. Well, I think I kind of responded to these comments about abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57700	Thank you, Mrs. Mandic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57701	First of all, to tell you the truth, I would like to have Rodoljub Sabic sitting here instead of you sitting here, not because I don't like to sit with you, but now it turns out that all the blame for the bad work of Rodoljub Šabic should be taken over by you, but now what do I do, you are Deputy Rodoljub Šabić, so now you have to put up with the criticism. First of all, Mrs. Mandic, this is about Rodoljub Sabic asking the competent state authorities for information that he knew in advance that he could not get under Article 9. So he knew in advance that he couldn't get some information and then when he didn't get that information, he was making artificial affairs about how the state authorities wouldn't cooperate with him. The same thing was done by Sasa Jankovic and you know it very well. Now, let me ask you a question, but don't be offended and don't take this personally. Do you have a pandan in Croatia? Is there a trustee there for information of public importance? There is. And have you ever heard of a Croatian public-important information officer asking their Ministry of Defence to deliver to him the unit schedule, how many tanks they have, how many planes they've got, how they got helicopters, etc? Have you ever heard of it? I haven't heard in my life. I heard that only in Serbia is it interested in Rodoljub Sabic. How is it that the Croatian trustee is not interested in information of public character? How is it that one of your pandas in Macedonia, or to say in Northern Macedonia, is now their official state? How in Slovenia? Here, it's a country that was created in the ruins of the former Yugoslavia. Do you have a panda there? Yes, you do. Well, I've never heard of a Slovenian public information trustee asking the Ministry of Defence of Slovenia to deliver these data requested by Rodoljub Sabic. As it is only Serbia to this extent specific, that now the Commissioner for Public Information is just as interested in what the Serbian Army has, as she has obtained planes and helicopters from the Russian Federation and Belarus, and let's say your Croatian colleagues are not interested in how the Americans provided them with helicopters, if I'm not mistaken, "Apac" stamps and tanks and a certain artillery tool. They don't care because they know it's in Croatia's interest. Rodoljub Sabic is interested because he knows, if this data is disclosed, that it will endanger Serbia's national security. But what does he care? What does he care about the state of Serbia? Have you ever heard of the fact that the Slovenian, Croatian or any other trustee of information of public importance tweeting at work, that the MPs are called idiots, morons, liars, thieves, etc.? I didn't hear. It's only Rodoljub Shabic worked. Don't tell me, Mrs. Mandic, that Rodoljub Sabic had nothing to do with Natasa Kandic and the expansion of the circle of the person to be charged with alleged war crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. I draw your attention to the interview given by Colonel General Ljubisa Dikovic "News" from 30 June 2019. At the question of the journalist "News", in the middle of the mandate, news has surfaced that you are suspected of the most terrible war crimes and that the indictment is about to be filed. And says General Dikovic, it's a story that few people know: "Then General Pavkovic and Lazarevic voluntarily went to The Hague," and we know that they left voluntarily, "I was invited to the Office of the Hague Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and I was suggested to accuse them of being criminals. I told them right away, "You won't hear something like that from my mouth. They didn't order crimes, they ordered how to defend ourselves. If they were, I'd say, and when they're not, first I'll tell you, I won't." It was an opening episode. Then they assured me that they knew that I was "a wonderful" commander, that I was helping Albanians, but I haven't changed my decision". Now, this episode has its sequel, says General Dikovic. "I told my parents at home that it was probably the end of my military career. However, it turns out I was given the UN tribunal's second chance. Namely, I received an invitation to report to Baja Basta for alleged war crimes, where Natasa Kandic, behold a miracle, was waiting for me. And Natasa Kandic, her humanitarian law fund, is mentioned in a report by Rodoljub Sabic in 11 cases. So, "in Baja's garden where, to a surprise, Natasa Kandic and her team were waiting for me. This time they wanted me to blame Momčel Perisic, because as commander of the border battalion towards Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1992 to 1994, I had to know that he was transferring troops of the Yugoslav Army to Bosnia and I told her that I knew absolutely nothing, and she told me that I was a good officer and a gentleman and that I should know that. When I became chief of staff, there was a lawsuit that I organized crimes against civilians in the war." Now you, Mrs. Mandic, not to me, the citizens of Serbia, it's all clear to me, it's all clear to me long ago, but explain to the citizens of Serbia what the connection is between Rodoljub Sabic, the Office of the Hague Tribunal in Belgrade and the Fund for Humanitarian Law. So it's a triangle that's very, very, what the Croats would say with this new talk -- signifying. So there must be a connection. So, Rodoljub Sabic, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the Office of the Hague Tribunal in Belgrade. So, not enough Pavkovic, Lazarevic, Lukic, Djordjevic, Mladic, Tolimir, all others, not to mention them, many are unfortunately already retired, some are unfortunately on their way to retirement, some have been killed in The Hague tribunal as Slobodan Milosevic, because they have not been adequately treated, and now they need a circle to expand. Who was the first to hit? Colonel General Ljubisa Dikovic, chief of Serbia's Army Staff, because he was in Kosovo and Metohija during the war, at the time of NATO aggression. And that was the ultimate goal of Natasha Kandic and Rodoljub Sabic, to move forward with the indictment of Serbian officers for alleged fabricated crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. Why? To justify NATO aggression, to continue where Vuk Jeremic stopped in 2008, which he said in the interview "Spiglu" – it is not NATO's fault pact, the NATO Pact has intervened because Slobodan Milosevic and his troops committed crimes against the Albanian population. And that policy continues Rodoljub Sabic and the Humanitarian Law Fund, and General Ljubisa Dikovic, who has been accused of taking part in the crime in Kosovo and Metohija, came under attack. (President: Thank you. ) That’s what this is about and things are very simple. but what is embarrassing for Rodoljub Sabic, and for those of you who knew about all this, because I do not believe that you knew about this, is that Rodoljub Sabic has consciously become the exhibit of Natasa Kandic and the Fund for Humanitarian Law in falsely accusing the honorable Serbian officers who defended the country in 1999 at KIM. I am telling you, Mrs Mandic, that was not done by your Slovenian colleagues either, and there were crimes against JNA soldiers in late June and early July 1991, it was not done by your Croatian counterpart or colleague, and there were many crimes in Croatia and against members of JNA and civilians of Serbian nationality. Neither did your Macedonian counterpart or co-worker, and there were armed conflicts between the Macedonian police and the Cypriot terrorists who ended the so-called. A Ohrid agreement de factoing Macedonia is divided into two parts into Macedonian and Albanian.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57702	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Injury of Rules of Procedure Gjorge Komlenski. Here's my colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57703	I thank the chairman. You allowed a 107 member's injury with all due respect to his colleague Martinovic, who wanted to explain something here in a nice way. I think that in the Assembly here for the dignity of this home things have to be called the right name, so it can't be treated like what Rodoljub Sabic asked the army to do as information about some cross-border co-operation with the Information Commissioner of the special importance of the Republic of Croatia or some other countries that are not well-intentioned towards the Republic of Serbia at all is that we have cross-border channels working for the same services, sides, doing here whatever they want, and we honestly don't know why we look through their fingers. But these things, if what Jojic suggested was respected, the Prosecutor's Office finds that there are elements of co-operation and that this is sought because of the interests of others, clearly and consciously called in one simple word in Serbian – treason.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57704	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? No, thank you. We're continuing our work on the list. The word is Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57705	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I fully join the initiative that the D.A. is dealing with all these allegations that we've heard in the past few hours, and when it comes to the reports of the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, which we are discussing today, I cannot stress the satisfaction that the Assembly will soon choose a new Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. Why is this important? Because we had a Commissioner who, during his term, had completely forgotten that at the head of an independent state body, whose laws of the Republic of Serbia, the applicable laws, had determined jurisdiction, certain actions, and had begun to deal openly with politics and even to advance in all those heifers and campaigns led against Alexander Vukic, the MPs, the Serbian Government and the SNS. I belong to that part of the public who never believed that Rodoljub Sabic was independent, impartial and objective in doing his job because it was about a man who practically built his entire career just through politics and political parties. As hard as he tried to appear to be some kind of independent expert, as some kind of expert, the fact is that he's been in politics for decades. Even in the government of Ante Markovica, he was an official, unless I was wrong about the secretary of legislation in the government of Ante Markovic. Well, then he was the founder of that social democracy, we talked about it today, the social democracy of Vuk Obradovic. He then betrayed this Vuk Obradovic with the others when they took his party. Well, he was then a prominent member of the Social Democratic Party, so he was a national MP even vice president of the National Assembly, so he was minister of state administration and local self-government. And now all of this if it's not political functions, then I really don't know what political functions are, even extremely high political functions. Then overnight he became an expert, an independent expert, solved a man – I'm no longer a politician, now I'm an expert. Now as such an expert can attack whoever he wants, he can attack whoever comes to his mind, he criticises him, and by misusing his function he was ready even for some brutal insults to the insinuators and mostly he did it through Twitter. He liked to tweet at work the most. I have asked several MPs questions in my time, under which law Sabic has the right to deal with daily politics, and we are talking about the period while he was still a Commissioner for Information of Public Matter. He never answered me. Instead of answering, all I got was insults. Worse than me, however, was the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandra Martinovic, who received the salvo of the most brutal possible insults, such as, the miserable, lying thief and so on. Whether he drank a little more that day or not, he wrote it anyway. He says Sabic – Martinovic is a poor, lying thief, knowingly and deliberately lying and a dirty insult, so I will publicly call him a poor, lying liar, and that is why he has reason to sue me if he dares. Those are his words at the time he was an information trustee. Last October, he says -- Serbian citizens, the devil took the joke, which he thinks of Mr. Martinovic, an operatically obscenity figure is the head of our country's parliamentary party. That's what he said, the head of the parliamentary party, didn't know there was no MP party. So that's what he said. And why is that? This is the key to everything, because Aleksandar Matinovic then dared to ask where the money is, how is Rodoljub Sabic spending state money. Imagine, the MP dared to do his job, interested in the way in which the state's money was spent, which is the basic job of the MP. And he didn't get an answer, but he got an insult salva. So I would like to conclude my speech, because of the time being over, I would like to say for the very end, I hope that the future Commissioner for Public Information will be all the opposite of Rodoljub Sabic, that he will do everything that Rodoljub Sabic has not done and that he will not do everything that Rodoljub Sabic has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57706	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a messenger of the people, Andrian the Abrahams.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57707	Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, instruments provided for by the Law on Free Access to Information of Public importance for the purpose of controlling the legality of the work of the public authority. Today, a report on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information is on the agenda, which is of great importance to our citizens, especially when it comes to the cases of controversial privatisations that took place during the so-called government. Democratic authorities. What does the abuse of privatisation look like? Since Serbia's Dossov regime, criminal robbery privatisation has been carried out with catastrophic consequences for the economy and society as a whole. New owners took large loans from banks and instead of investing in the development of businesses and the growth of basic activity also pulled through their offshore companies and brought privatised companies to the brink of collapse. Unfortunately with them and a large number of workers and suppliers. There was annihilation of property, no minimum earnings were paid, workers had no associated work experience or certified health books. The key problem was in the very Privatisation Act that made everything possible and absolutely nothing impossible at the time, depending on who was buying and with whom the deal was made. The property was repeatedly underestimated, there was no control of the origin of the money. The financial reports had nothing to do with the real state of the firm. There was no meaningful business control after privatisation. The huge problem was that there was no clear list and an estimate of all assets, then a list of all obligations, commercial and tax obligations for contributions including contractual tax and legal tightened interest. In addition, there were a large number of unresolved property-legal relations, including a large number of ongoing litigation cases. Unfortunately for us, a large number of companies are privatized with these problems. Because of the overall situation, there was no obligation on the customer to settle debts, which seriously endangered innocent workers, above all, the development of our economy and our country, instead of prosperity, brought a long-term and difficult problem. Fortunately for us, and fortunately for our citizens, the Serbian Progressive Party managed to adopt the Law on Privatisation and the Bank of bankruptcy in 2014. The new law stipulates that all workers will be linked to the job internship and pay off all the backlogs. A clear control of the performance of the contract after privatisation, the obligation to comply with the financial reports with the law and new and useful privatisation methods have been introduced, above all for our citizens and our country to the Republic of Serbia. I would stress the importance of the World Bank which supports this new law. Our President, Aleksandar Vukic, takes care of the interests of our country and the interests of the trustees. It is important that we have found a way and a system that is applicable and protects interests, above all our citizens and states, and troubled state-owned companies are no longer burdening the budget, which is very important The New Law on Privatisation has introduced order and created the value of our domestic companies. Thanks to the application of these solutions, we managed to sell RTB Bor, Željzar Smederevo and many others in the way that all the organized countries in the world would do it. Bringing these companies into order is not an impossible mission, our President, Alexander Vukic, has proved it. We were able to attract new investments, hire our citizens to work in healthy and normal conditions. The budget surplus is over 200m euros. Serbia is recovering financially and economically, despite its taxes and numerous difficulties, fiscally and rapidly developing. We have money to help our people and restore our economy. Many good and important things have been done in the past six years for Serbia, and I am particularly proud of economic reforms. From the minus and the congested chaotic state, we got into high plus. We're reducing public debt at high speed at the monthly level. The unemployment of our citizens has been reduced from 26% to 11%, and wages and pensions are growing. First of all, we did it thanks to our citizens, their faith in heavy reforms, and thanks to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who did not say easy and false promises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57708	Thank you, colleague Avramov. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57709	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, unlike Alexander Vukic, who, I quote, I am prepared to defend the right of every man in this country, there are those who were or were still in office and whose duty is to behave in the same way, but they do not do so despite the fact that the law points to them in an unequivocal way. You'll guess, and I'll talk about Rodoljub Šabić, the former Commissioner for Public Information. He's a good example of what a trustee shouldn't do. Abuse of that function for even adventurous purposes is a serious matter that he was opposed to. It's not good when someone was a politician and then overnight became an independent expert. It is right that the question arises whether someone who was exclusively involved in politics, was a minister, a MP, a vice president of the National Assembly can forget his political status and treat the Commissioner in the same way as anyone else. He showed us that it's not possible. On a daily basis, he used his position and function to participate in daily politics and to deal with topics that should by no means be in the work of the Trustees. In doing so, it has openly put aside political options. Of course, they used it to send political messages to Aleksandr Vukic and SNS and, as it already works with them, Sabic regularly attacked members and SNS officials on a regular basis in their directives. I will remind you that this is how he organised and participated in the verbal chicing of the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandr Martinovic, presenting the most terrible insults to turn this into a kind of link on social networks. Why? Only because Aleksandar Martinovic asked how state money is spent. What, the so-called Commissioner, is Sapic doing to justify his salary? We got an answer to that question very quickly. So for more than 200,000 dinars a month, he mainly tweeted, hung on social networks, dealt with politics and spitters and abused his position. That's how DOS government did it, that's how they chose people, so they chose him as a trustee twice. Thus, instead of the Commissioner Sabic implementing the law of the envisaged activities, which, for example, refer to affirmation of rights by participating in lectures and in the stands, as well as in training, he participated in the party's stands and in political shows. Therefore, because of all that I have stated, it is good that we have a report on the implementation of the law on the agenda, on the free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality Data for 2018, because it is necessary to point out the shortcomings in the work of the previous trustee in order to improve the work of this independent state body accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57710	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57711	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the right to tell you, this report to Mr. Shabic looks like an opposition bulletin to me. In the opening part where Sabic gave his opening statement, you realize that he hit the moaning that he couldn't work, that he had no co-operation, which was further denied in the part where he was said to have received everything he asked for. We could confirm that indifference, Mr. Shabic, even a few months ago when he wrote in the media about his injury that he sustained when he fell in alcoholised condition and hit his head on the sidewalk, and tried to portray it as an attack. Fortunately, these security cameras recorded him fall, so the injured made selfies, because Mr. Djilas and Mr. Trifunovic and the rest of the team immediately began their abuses, and the drunken fall wanted to be an assassination of Shabic and to blame the authorities for it. Who used tricks like this? What does that say about the former regime and how do we know that Vukic is doing the right thing for Serbia? It is because they have such a thorn in their eye that the powerless opposition is made up of some hypocrites that the people will not, and on the other hand, the citizens of Serbia give Vucic enormous support. You know, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection should, above all, be impartial, objectively defending the rights to be independent and not to seek or receive orders, and instructions for his work from other organs or persons. In the case of Mr Sabic, he did not even bother to act to meet any of these conditions. The only thing that worked from the place of trustee is politics, and all about the cost of Serbian citizens. Nearly 200 million budget money, and when we see what's been bought, the iPhones and furniture, and from Mr. Shabic's many trips, Serbian citizens have absolutely no use. Rodoljub Sabic of the place of the Commissioner did not serve Serbian citizens and this is clearly seen from his own report, he served the daily list "Today", the weekly "Nin", the list "Time" there are CINS, KRIK, BIRN, "Insider" and, of course, "N1". All these media are directly against the government, everyone knows that. Sabic served them to get information through him, and they often sought information that could endanger national security. So, the end of Rodoljub Sabic's mandate, the abuse of state functions, the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, was suspended. I absolutely support my colleagues' initiative to deal with this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57712	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Now the word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57713	Here, at the very end of today's debate, at least in this part of the word application, I have to tell you that we get interesting comments from these media, which, as a rule, represent those interests that you spoke of today, the honourable fellow MPs, who cannot quite identify themselves with the interests of the state of Serbia, on the contrary. I see that it is just one of the breaking news on N1 TV that the representative of the Šer Foundation, Krivokapic, said that today he had no one to defend this report, that today he had no one to explain the views of Rodoljub Sabic, or the Commissioner. Here, Mrs. Mandic, you today, thank God, you answer questions here, you give your estimates, interpretations, further explanations, and they say there is no one to face with us MPs. By the way, it's about people coming from a circle of signatories, I have to say, a brilliant joint statement, that one committee in the National Assembly must not be allowed, imagine, to make a decision by voting on whom it will support for the next Commissioner. Imagine, a vote, a democratic vote and a public committee by the MPs, that's unacceptable? It's a picture and an opportunity for that attitude to access that so-called. self-proclaimed and conceited elites. So, not the representatives of the people, not even the people themselves can say what and how they think they should and can't make decisions when it comes to the people and their representatives, but those people who think that they are God's day to decide everything, they have to ask themselves, no matter how many votes they have, or not in any election. In addition to the fact that it is really for the debate to represent the interests of the Fund for Humanitarian Law, but also of any other bearers of interesting interest, such as this BIRN, I have seen them among those who are signatories of different requirements behind which Rodoljub Sabic stood. Otherwise, let someone correct me if I'm wrong, but the boss, the leader of that BIRN, Slobodan Georgiev is the author of that famous sentence he said himself, filmed himself, and then he posted it through that famous Twitter. He recorded sympathies and members of the SNS and said a sentence – we will all go to camps and then hang it up to boast. So that's the so-called. The elite, and this is the so-called elite, who despises the people, who can't stand the people for the simple reason that the people of these people, because these people are such people, don't support and don't fall into the minds of the people for such people to vote and give them the power they brutally abused in times behind us, in times that I remember very well, and scratched that people's skin from their backs and gave it to them, as they do today and underestimated it as they do today and all the worst thought and did to them, as they do today, and only as they would if only opportunity were given to them. And he pointed to these things in his today's authorial text and President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. I see that today, Mr. Martinović is right, and it has grown to be short and tail to react to it, and so is Gilas Dragan himself, the famous tycoon, best known for this abuse of power, but a variety of others here in the National Assembly Hall, and Zivkovic Zoran. They all talked about how there was something terrible wrong with Alexander Vukic, and there is nothing to what the people really think and what he showed every time we asked him to think, and it is known where. The people in the election are wondering. Again they tried something in their well-known manners of classic coasters, dirty propaganda and slander to talk about which diplomas other people by system – we elite have better paper for a degree than you and therefore our rights, good and original, and yours is no good. I just don't know why, if that's all right, Gilas Dragan when he meets some professor from the engineering college whose diploma he has, the look of the knock-off and the floor he's looking at? He probably remembers how good and quality it is, how much each one of his grades is deserved, and so is his diploma, but that's more of a question for him. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, every citizen of this country is equally valuable. Every citizen in this country is equally invited to ask himself, to vote and to decide, and precisely because it is possible to repeat Jeremic and his team, who knows what they've been doing to Serbia's mother, thus boasting and having a lot of fun and grinning about it. I will quote to you his high-ranking officer Gajic – in Serbia to win the election of Alexander Vukic, because there are 60% of functionally illiterate people. That's what they think of us as people who vote for Alexander Vukic, and they'll always be the ones who support him, and that's why we have to take power in another way. That's why the street, that's why the lynch, that's why the violence, that's why the coup and the long pipes. Since they all think so well, the people hear it so well and understand it so well and therefore whenever people ask themselves, they will be able loudly, clearly, convincingly, as never before, to say - no thanks to such, with such work we do not want to have, away to you a beautiful house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57714	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right to speak? The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57715	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, honourable representatives of the Commissioner for Public Information, fellow Members and colleagues, when we talk about the report of the Commissioner for Public Information, i.e. on the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning and the implementation of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, I would like first to point out that it is important to take into account that this one institution must work and respect four principles, which are primarily independence, transparency, the field of public and depolitisation. For SDPS, it is very important that every institution in this country is independent, especially one such as the Commissioner for Public Information and it is important that this institution is effective and that it does its job professionally and responsibly. It's a good thing we're discussing this report today, and I think we could hear different opinions and different attitudes. We could also hear certain criticisms and objections from the Commissioner for Public Information, but also we MPs were given the word to evaluate this report, but also to say something about the work of the Commissioner himself. It would be ideal if the fruit of this debate were to clarify one opinion and give guidance that would be good for the future work of the Commissioner for Public Information. Our job, the job of MPs, is to pass laws, in this particular case, to create a legal framework within which this institution would work, work independently, in the interests of citizens. At the end of last year, we adopted a new Law on free access to information of public importance. It was in November and it will take some months and more days to come into effect. I believe that this has helped to extend the authority of the Commissioner for Public Information and that is only one way to improve the work of this institution. Also, as a member of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, I can say that the Commissioner always came across the open door, that we were dating, that we were giving positive opinions. Let's say, the last time I asked for approval on the maximum number of employees in this institution, we gave a positive opinion on the proposal of the Commissioner, and that was one of the ways that we, too, had a positive impact on the work of this institution. The trustee by definition should be impartial and objective in defending the rights of all citizens. That is why it is prescribed that it is elected for a term of seven years, that this duration of the term of office does not overlap with the mandate of the legislative authority, nor with the mandate of the executive authority, but what we always insist on is that the Commissioner must work within the framework of the law and under the Constitution, and that in the end, whoever the Commissioner is, when leaving this function, we do not talk about the name and last name, but simply talk about his work and that the simple name in that case should not be important, but that one concrete result remains behind. The role of the trustee institution in the previous period was, among other things, educational, because the Trustee also had one task, to work to raise citizens' awareness about those areas where citizens have the right to seek certain information. Data from this report also show that, from 2004 to today, it has strengthened the institution of the Trustees, but also the awareness of the citizens. For example, during 2005, the Trustee had 438 submissions, and last year, in 2018, that number was 13.591. We can't even say anymore that this institution is in the water, because it simply exists for almost a decade and a half. On the other hand, it takes time for it to reach one level where it will truly be in the position of meeting the needs of citizens. In addition, it takes more time for citizens to strengthen trust, to acquire a habit and to get to know what situations they have the right to address the Commissioner for Information of public importance. Another important principle that I want to highlight is the principle of transparency, especially for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, and we think it is normal for citizens to want to know in what way someone exercises power in their name and how someone spends the money of all taxpayers. That's one legitimate question. Citizens should also be informed about the work of authorities at all levels, starting with the republican, provinceal and local ones. Transparency as one of the principles of good administration implies that state authorities, but also citizens, can easily see who and how they make and implement decisions. It is important because it contributes to a higher level of responsibility of function holders, under number one, and number two, it is also in some way defending potential corruption. When we talk about the division of power, we always talk about the division of legislative, executive and judicial power. I have to mention politician Hanu Aren, who introduced another category, which is the category of the field of public. It is, as she called it, an informal branch of authorities and I think that the Commissioner for the Protection of Information of Public Meaning should play a role here, and I think that in the next period, whoever comes to this place, should actually lead this institution towards that path, because I simply think that the work of the Trustees is well based on this particular field of public, because it is a link between citizens and state bodies and without it and this concept loses one complete meaning. What I must also point out is that we must not allow the trustee institution to be politicised, in any way, whether it has a political impact on this institution, whether this institution has some political interference. And there are no problems in the work of the institution to be transferred to the political field and to be, for example, part of some day-to-day political accounts. I'm just going to say it one more time, rely on the principles that I said at the beginning, which are independence, transparency, depolitisation and the field of the public. Because the concept of access to information of public importance is based on the principle that, in a democratic society, citizens are thus able to, in a public life and in a direct way, through elections or indirectly, through this very participation in public life, influence the creation of decisions that directly concern them. Finally, I would like to remind you that the right to access information of public importance is part of the fundamental right to expression and an integral part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. First, Sweden passed a law in 1766 concerning this right of access to information, and then almost two centuries later, Finland and the United States. I cited this as an example again to show that we are young in this area and that it is important that we all work together to bring this institution to one level that has, under number one, undeniable authority in relation to all state authorities, and number two, to enjoy the trust of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57716	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57717	Thank you, Chairman. Please excuse me for not getting up while I'm talking, because I usually do, but I'm stiff and I hope you don't mind. Today's debate should be held on the report by the Commissioner on the implementation of the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. But a few hours during the debate, we had a simple impression on this side of the tide that it was a security report. With this in mind, I appeal to colleagues sitting across the street that in the future work of the National Assembly, we simply do not abuse plenary sessions to deal with political insinuators, regardless of whether they are parts of political organisations or independent institutions, such as Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, which was the most discussed, although it was not specifically discussed the work of both Mr. Rodoljub Šabic and the work of Mr. Rodoljub Šabic, but was to discuss the Annual Report on the work of an entire office in which almost 80 people participated. It's just, we had such a nice report in front of us, we could stick to more than enough of the topic that's on the agenda. I would like to commend, at the same time, and the intentions of the National Assembly to discuss the reports of independent institutions in the last, and almost a month. For the past month, we've been discussing the State Audit Institution Report, the Fiscal Council Report, the Competition Protection Commission. During this session, we will discuss the Annual Report of the Commissioners for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and the Protection of Personality Data, the Annual Report of the Citizens' Protectors and the Agency's Report on Combating Corruption. With this in mind, given that this has not been in the plenary session for a very long time, I would like to commend the Parliament’s president’s intention to put this on the agenda. As I said before, I'm glad that after four years, we have the Assembly's report on the protection of information from public importance. We have had several times during this term of opportunity to discuss these reports on committees, but I still think it is important that these reports are discussed and in plenary, in order for citizens to get full information on what is the work of an independent institution like this and at all what is the work of all other independent institutions, because, simply, the constraint of the work within the Committee and the lack of public attention, it seems to me that, in this respect, simply then the public does not have concrete information as to what these institutions are dealing with. In 2018, the fact that the work was difficult, in a way, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Meaning and the Protection of Personality Data, with regard to what we could see, as we could see, during this plenary session, was much more concerned with public opinion of the person and the part of someone who was the first among the same within this institution than with a particular business carried out by the institution itself and the competences it has. With this in mind, there was also some co-operation between the National Assembly and the Office of the Trustees, and not only in the part concerning the debate on the annual Report of the Commissioners, but there was simply no co-operation, and when it came to the opinions of certain laws that the Assembly should adopt, and whose opinion, even if we MPs on this side of the hall, were very often called upon. It marked 2018 and the silence of the administration in a slightly smaller percentage than it was in 2017, but I would now again represent the position of the Modern Serbian Party and the position of my parliamentary group, it seems to us to be inadmissible in some way, not in some sense, but that it is scandalous and somewhere I would find that the cause of all this is precisely the lack of personal responsibility of public officials, regardless of whether they are in functions at the level of state, local self-government or public enterprises. With that in mind, it is easy to get one impression that they do not feel the amount of responsibility they should feel by performing these functions in the interests of citizens and then easily approach that the public does not know enough about the information that is in their interest, first of all I mean the work of the state, local self-government or public enterprises, and then, finally, what seems to us to be the most affecting citizens, which is the use of the budget, the way the funds are allocated within the budget. I won't list the details of your report. We've had enough chance to get to know each other today. I'd just like to draw some, or I've tried to pull something out during this debate that I'd like to draw attention to, and I think it's important that the public knows what you've been up to. These are characteristic cases concerning the exercise of the right to access information of public importance. I'll mention some of the cases that are mentioned in your report. This is the case of the public company of the Tanjug news agency, the case of the project financing of media content at the level of the city of Belgrade and the case of the Radiodifuse Company "RTV Pancheva". I'm not going to go into specifics, I say, but colleagues from individual parliamentary groups have been talking about this. Then, cases involving spending public money that seem to be perhaps the most interesting. I also think that no one is familiar with the case of buying a New Year's tree in Belgrade. Then, by reconstructing seven small hydropower plants, cases of electoral guarantee. Then, in your Report, you have mentioned cases that are characteristic of privatisation, especially the case of PKB privatisation and the case of 24 controversial privatisations, which have followed us back decades. Then, denial and difficult access to information relating to the legality of the work of the public authority. Among them, the most famous, seems to us, a case from election night 2016. That's the case, "Savamale". Then, the case of building an illegal facility on Pancic's top. This is the case that is still very current today and the case of former Belgrade Mayor, today Finance Minister Sinisha Malo. One thing is interesting in this report next to the sea of statistics that you have presented and which are largely worrying about what capacities you have, and with how many cases you face in practice, is something that is located at the very end of this report and is very well distributed in documents on the site of the Trustee, which is the number of unexecuted solutions by the authorities, which are in total at the moment, or in conclusion with the 2018 Report, has 382. What is particularly worrying is that almost half of these unfinished solutions on the side of the ministry are ahead of it. They are followed immediately by authorities and organisations in local self-government, then by other republican authorities and organisations, local public enterprises, judicial authorities and republican public enterprises. So, a very large number of unfinished solutions are at stake here and it seems to us that simply, when we look at what structure is not responding, it is an alarm that we need to worry about, first of all, as MPs who are controlling the executive government. There were also words on this matter in the European Commission's Progress Report on Serbia. A few things have been put in place, let me say, at the expense of the Trustee's Office, which is a delay in selecting the Trustees and precisely these examples that I have cited, which is not responding to the public's call to have insight into information that is significant to them, as well as transparency in the work of state, local self-government and public enterprises. As far as the parties of Modern Serbia and my parliamentary group are concerned, that is a question that should also be set off by the alarm. One of my colleagues throws, but I don't know if he has any questions in parallel. So, Mrs. Mandic, you had a brief statement on the annual report and you said you didn't like the fact that the Committee's conclusions are somewhat less than the conclusions that we have on the trustee. Some of these recommendations are repeated year after year and you have put them at the end of this report, as you are also a signator of this report, into two groups: recommendations that go to the expense of the National Assembly and recommendations that go to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first recommendation concerns, I will repeat them for the sake of the public, and we can comment on them together if you have a wish, the National Assembly and says that in due time until this law enters into force, which is soon, the Personal Data Protection Act, it should, given that we have recently adopted it, enter into force on 21 August 2019, to adopt the proposals that you have made until the very entry into force. Therefore, the proposals for amending and supplementing this law to be adopted until the very entry into force of this law, so that it is simply applicable in practice. Then, without delay, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, drawn up in co-operation and in accordance with the recommendations of the Commissioner in the text, which would contribute to the improvement of the rights governed by the law. We're actually discussing the third and fourth items today. These are the committees responsible for reviewing the Report of the Commissioner for 2018 and we are having a debate today regarding the plenary session. Then, to ensure continued supervision of the implementation of its conclusions, available mechanisms of control over the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the executive authorities, insisting on responsibilities for failures in the work of the authorities. That's exactly the statistic I've mentioned of 382 unfinished solutions. So, it seems to me that we here as a little bit as MPs have failed and that we have been able to do much better to control the work, both state, local self-government and public enterprises. Then, the competent committees and professional services of the National Assembly, when adopting laws with due care, shall consider the views of the Trustees on compliance, as well as the possible effects of those laws on the right to access information of public importance and the right to the protection of personal data. I must say that at least the MPs, as far as the opposition is concerned, are very often handling your opinions and are very often suggesting what you're suggesting. I'm sorry those provisions aren't adopted, and then we'll be forced to re-adjust the laws in due course, even though we could do it at the first moment. As a last recommendation to the National Assembly, you have said that it provides timely and adequate support to the Trustee as an independent state body that is independent in exercising its jurisdiction. My impression as a letter is that this is the case. As for the proposals addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the first two provisions, it seems to me, that I am not repeating them now, in relation to the recommendations you made to the National Assembly. Then, the third recommendation seems to me to be very interesting to the public. It says that, in accordance with its own obligations, the law on free access to information of public importance establishes an adequate mechanism of security and enforcement of final executive and binding solutions of the Commissioner, as well as more effective supervision of the implementation of this law. This complicated sentence essentially suggests that the government respects the law. So, it's a very simple recommendation that you make, and it seems to me that it should be something that's acceptable. The fourth recommendation is then to establish a strategic plan for the process of harmonisation of sectoral laws in relation to the protection of personal data, in accordance with its own obligations, prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act. Not to count everything, not to go so wide with these recommendations. It seems to me that the seventh recommendation is very important, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry provide adequate conditions and financial resources for the smooth work of the Trustees as an independent body, especially in relation to the extension of the authority's competences set out in the new Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the growing scope of the existing work, whose untimely execution produces costs of the court dispute on the burden of the budget. The modern-day Serbian party is unequivocally seeking to strengthen independent institutions, among which the trustee institution presides. So we don't think it's just inappropriate to allocate a larger amount of funds in the budget for the next calendar year, given the size of the jobs you've described in the annual report, which you listed in your brief presentation. So the job is getting bigger, people are getting smaller and we just have to, if we want to have a transparent work of state administration, public administration, to invest in the same. For the end, it's something I basically wanted to say in the beginning. However, this debate went in an inappropriate manner, so I left it to an end. Therefore, the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning was adopted by the Assembly in November 2004. Mr Rodoljub Sabic entered his post on 22 December 2005. Re-election was sometime in 2011 and was on the post until 2018. You seem to have joined him somewhere in April 2005, if my memory isn't cheating. I'd say it's one team that's been working on empowerment and strengthening practically trustee institutions for all these 15 years, along with some adequate extensions, as conditions have allowed. What's interesting to me? I have also looked at some of the previous reports, which the Assembly did not discuss, unfortunately, through this annual report. When I say peeked, I think of those very earlier reports and I found one interesting thing, which is the first report on your site, and it was hanged on November 3, 2005. For the sake of the public, I will say what the problem has to do with the institutions of the Trustees and which has nothing to do with this authority, but it has to do with all the authorities before it, which all the problems face, sometimes it's more pronounced, sometimes less pronounced, but this institution certainly suffers very much pressure. The first sentence, meaning Mr. Sabic addresses the then president of the Committee on Culture and Information, says this: "In my assessment of the law on free access to information of public importance, there are obvious phenomena that point to serious problems and which deserve the attention of the National Assembly. The report I present to you in the Annex is the result of that assessment’. Why is this important? Because this was a report concerning the work of that institution of the Trustees for only a few months, and it says that we had resistance to this institution in 2005, when it was established, and unfortunately, and at least from this debate we can conclude if we didn't have enough examples in public space during 2018, so let's see that indeed, the trustee institution is suffering extremely high pressures, political, public, all kinds of things and that it is a real challenge to resist that kind of pressure. I will conclude that in our society it is necessary simply to raise a culture of public respect to the right to have access to information of public importance and in an adequate way to advocate respect for personal data and that it simply must be somehow our task, especially for us in the National Assembly who have the opportunity to talk to citizens about this, even in direct transmission, given that a very small number of citizens follow the work of the board, but it is also your task to resist the pressures of various species and in the future. I am as one of the promoters, that is, my parliamentary group was fortunate to propose to our parliamentary group that we propose to the candidate Neven Ružić, who comes from the Commissioner's Office, and then, by getting acquainted with her work biography, I met who actually makes the office of the Trustee, and it is a great honor and pleasure to find myself as a member of the National Assembly or not, that you have such a choice of experts at the level of an independent institution. What will be a challenge in fact in front of you in the future is to keep your work continuity. We discussed this very much on the Committee on which we discussed potential candidates for the successor of the former Commissioner. Yes, it will be a challenge for both you and all the employees so far, and for that candidate that the National Assembly is likely to choose. So, I wish you good luck at work. As far as I'm concerned, I've been reading your reports for three years, they're all very precise, very detailed, and I'm glad you resist all the pressures.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57718	Thank you, colleague Macura. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. Then I have to thank all the MPs. I'm sorry, it's in George Komlensky's system. Excuse me, colleague Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57719	To vote for this report or not to vote will remain a dilemma whether this should remain permanent as a kind of textbook that the Information Protection Commissioner should not work as well as as a good instruction to us that we must react much earlier when we see failures in the work, in a much more responsible way, which is by looking for and replacing those who are not doing their job properly and not working in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, but today I am firmly convinced after this discussion, working in the interest of some others whom Serbia is not in the heart and who do not want Serbia well. How else to explain that the Commissioners are more interested in information that is of interest to foreign intelligence services and to creditors of other neighbouring countries, when it comes to the schedule of military units and those matters that are important to Serbia's security, rather than interested in information that is important to ordinary citizens. How does it react to the official duty to prohibit the publication of the name on the court's portal, based on the initiative of fraud and criminals, and thus protect their interests and directly prevents citizens of the Republic of Serbia from verifying who they are doing business with, from whom they buy apartments, from which they negotiate business co-operation and thus cause them direct damage? That there is no archival shows that no initiative, nor by official duty, has forced him to ask for information on how Predrag Stevanovic, at the time of his mastership, received a monopoly on the introduction of gasification by the municipality of Trstenik of Miroslav Aleksic, who, by the way, received the opportunity to recharge what he had already been built without permission from the municipality of Trstenik and to legalise. Why he never asked that Aleksic why Stevanovic allowed the acquisition of profits and the municipality of Trstenik owed 100 million dinars on behalf of the purchase of four container gas stations and 12 condensed gas blocks. Why he never asked for information about the work of the Citizens' Fund, founded by Alexic with his wife and father-in-law and business of this NGO with the National Employment Service, in which the father-in-law moved to work afterwards and poured huge money from the National Employment Service into this NGO. He didn't care about that. He wasn't interested, and I have to look for reasons why he didn't care. Apparently, he was much more interested in this species through border co-operation. He was much more interested in how to meet the followers of Gvosder, the verified corrupters who finance countries that finance jihad and Islamic terrorists, than he was interested in acting on the demands of ordinary citizens, primarily coming into contact with them. If it is true, and I have checked, that the largest number of non-compliances and requests of the Commissioners is precisely from the most sensitive sectors in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are from the ministries in charge of security, then I must congratulate them on being consistent and risking them to respond and to be prosecuted and criminal proceedings, that they are being driven by a hack across border channels, through those who do not want good Serbia and that is what the future Commissioner for Information Protection must take care of, that it does not come to such a situation to endanger the safety of the Republic of Serbia for some of its own personal, ugly interests, and this report, if we vote for it, will be only a good textbook and a good indicator that this job should not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57720	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go. Just so you know, I'm not gonna be intolerant to anyone anymore because I could've closed the session without a problem. It doesn't make sense, it's not collegiate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57721	Thank you. Tell that to your colleagues, I'm collegiate, I didn't even intend to answer. I think it's all clear more or less from this whole day's debate over the report. First, I wanted public representatives here from the trustee's office, saying what I said and in the discussion on the Committee on Culture. That's why there's no need for me to be too much longer and wider, and I'm basically satisfied, and I've been a positive judge of the institution's work. In doing so, I never exaggerated and was euphoric about praise. I'm sure there's been a leak and at least some of what's been heard here, there's probably a basis for a grudge, but I'm sorry, as far as I understand it, the office is responding to those demands that are going towards her. So it's not you who are primarily responsible because, I don't know, one group of questionnaires and one type of information might have been more dominant than the other. So it's quite a quality work of this institution and that responsibility of the first man, and responsibility, and the merits of the first man of that institution cannot be mentioned, which doesn't mean that there was, as I said, a failure and that something couldn't have been better. What is particularly important and why I would like to say and call a little bit and call my colleague on the other side, to simply think, at least in themselves, if not publicly, here to account, how will they, after all they've said here today, after all the criticisms, insults, slanders, at the expense of the institution itself and its first man, Mr. Sabic, how will they vote now, and we all know that they will vote for this report? So this is simply one, but unfortunately not the only, not the first example of screaming inconsistency, one, as I would say, that we are not opening an excessive circle of replicas, although they are likely to be almost hypocritical, that six, seven hours the most frightening criticism and defamation of that office and that trustee, and then voted for that report. Why? Because this report and voting for the report, it will go somewhere further, and it will be positively evaluated in some European bodies, as in the other work of the Commissioner's office itself is positively evaluated in the European Commission's assessments, and I know that some ministers and some people from the government have praised, among other things, how this office is doing well, how it is progressing, and on the other hand for the local public, for the audience, for the electoral body, we listen to the most terrible criticism, and I would say, terrible things, parallels, I don't know, with fascism, with Hitler, with the Nazis and all that we could hear during this several hours of debate, that we don't talk about collateral pleas of political opponents, absent or present. So it can go once, twice, five times, ten times, but then you lose credibility in the eyes of these European bodies, which you will address by voting for this report. Because, really, I know my colleagues on the left won't vote, they think that this institution shouldn't even exist, I don't mind, I can mention them, they're radicals, so they criticized, they think that this institution, that this trustee doesn't need for the reasons they've been instructed to do. But your criticisms, discussions, particularly Mr Martinovic, but also a number of others, were sharper, worse, longer, malignancies, more malignancies, however you will, according to the institution, according to Mr Sabic's personality, even from fellow radicals, and you will vote afterwards. Then be consistent, then vote against or move to this side, it wouldn't be your first time to change sides, then win against. (The People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, throws it away. Calm down, fellow Martinovic. So again there were inappropriate comments, you mentioned sandwiches again and again, lunches, who had lunch, who hadn't had lunch. Don't get too angry. Here, you see, and now you can't keep quiet for five minutes to endure criticism, well-intentioned criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57722	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57723	The chairman, only your behavior could be discussed, but we won't now, given that you've allowed replicas of eight and ten minutes each. Everyone knows, the parliamentary replica lasts for two minutes. It's nice to let the thought end, let it last for two and a half minutes, to finish the sentence, you've given your colleagues three, four times in a row, eight, eight, and a half, ten, ten, ten and a half minutes. So instead of two, ten and a half. It's just an illustration of how it works here in parliament, and then you're surprised there aren't any MPs. Although, speaking of which and speaking of which, I think it was fair and it would have been fair if they had come, especially those who had praised the trustee institution years ago, we only had words of praise for Mr. Sabic's work, that they had come here and repeated some praises and defended him from, I would say, unfounded attacks. But now it's their political assessment of both their souls and their consciences. So, you who have criticised him now and before, you have repeated your criticisms, I can't blame you for that, but I can blame you if you are now after all that you've done, what you've said today, you vote for this report. It will only be because you can, as simple as legislate to continue on the reform path, respect the independence of institutions, and on the other hand... (The People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, throws it away. Calm down, Mr. Martinovic. Why are you so nervous? (Alexander Martinovic: I'm not nervous. Don't ask, I mean throw. If the chairman was doing his job...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57724	Mr. Martinovic, please don't let your colleague Vukadinović finish his speech. Proceed to your colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57725	If the chairman were to do his job, you'd get a warning, you'd be taken from him more than once, you'd be punished, but of course it won't happen. (Alexander Martinovic: He would have been shot if you had been in power. ) You wouldn't be shot, Mr. Martinovic, I would defend you, believe me, and I will defend you if that moment comes and I am alive, and I'm wondering something in this country. Anyway, so... Here, you see fellow Members, and as you expect, I too have many times to realize that the President of the Assembly and the Head of the Assembly has shown one effort to arrange these sessions, to schedule separate points, not to combine points, to make appointments, to leave time for MPs to get acquainted with the material. So, there has been a lot of, formally speaking, and in the wake of these remarks and criticism from the European Commission, to meet these criticisms. They formally went out, but the way you experience it or the bars, pardon, most or a good part or part of the ruling majority's MPs, how you conduct it and what you demonstrate these days, simply shows that you can formally, institutionally respect some things, but you can't or won't really understand what parliamentary democracy means, which means that you hear a different opinion, even when it's moderated and when it's not militantally formulated. You've turned this debate again, these days, into some kind of firing water, not to say a pillar of shame for your political opponents, mentioning insolently, dozens of times the names of people who don't sit in this room and who, by the way, you can mention, have nothing to do with the points of the agenda. You mentioned Mr. Gilas 28 times on Wednesday, plus three more times under the name of the Giki Mafia and 28 times under the name Gilas. Jeremy was only 15 times. That's why the next day you got better, so Gilas was mentioned as many as 82 times during one day, Jeremic only seven.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57726	Comrade Vukadinovic, I apologize, if you just let me, I don't think you are, you represent yourself in Parliament, you are a national MP, we are discussing a very important topic, the conclusion of the Commissioner, and I don't think there's any need for you to be that way, you're not a lawyer or Dragan Gilas or anyone. Then you say you have a reaction on the other side. I mean, it's normal, you can talk as much as you want, you're right, nobody discriminates on you, especially me, and you know it very well. So, please, let us do this session with dignity. Here, talk as much as you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57727	I will not unworthyly finish this session, and I think that the dignity of this session has been violated for hours by the way a debate on an important, sensitive and delicate subject has been held. Every time, I could, dear colleagues, answer the phone and advertise in my Rules of Procedure, every time you've replicated ten and nine minutes to Mr. Martinovic and you're a little short. How much do you need, Mr. Martinovic? You work on the principle of a deaf glamour car, about you keep repeating like a mantra, the same attacks, the same curses, the same slanders, and then counting two things, or you're going to break up the audience, which is your primary goal, disintegrate the people who watch these transmissions, and those who stay, about washing their brains and then convince them the truth of what you say. Ten times or a hundred times a repeated lie becomes true, Mr. Martinovic. Therefore, objections have been established and it is certainly possible to criticise the work of the trustee's office and personality and some of its actions, but what he did and what he tweeted two, three, four months after he ceased his function is completely irrelevant, irrelevant to this session and to this debate. You deliberately mixed the dates, so you put his replica, or his tweet or March comment, as if he was still in office, and he wasn't. So, in order to debate with dignity, to be able to agree on something that we disagree on, and that is what we need, in order to be able to look for elements of consensus, which is not easy in this country and in this Assembly and in this people, then please and friendlyly recommend and advise you, try to be able to hear and what you do not like. I believe that, if you try, as the President has shown, with a little effort to create a place for the different agenda points, to have pre-scheduled sessions, to be separate points, and to leave a lot of or enough room for discussion, so come on, and then try, if you will and if you care to go out in the European Commission's reports and some bodies. So, not because of these bodies, not because of this European Commission, but because of ourselves, because of the political climate and relations in the country. Can't you see how much hate works in the streets, in the media, in these congregation benches? You've gone too far once, you've, in some way, forced some of the MPs to leave the congregation. I supported that boycott solidly. I realized that there was a reason, and I thought that there was a reason for him to break up in some way, and for some points... (Alexander Martinovic: On the agenda. () Slowly, Mr. Martinovic, as far as your points were concerned, your debates had rights. (Alexander Martinovic: Let's talk a little bit about the Report. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57728	Dear colleagues, we are at the end of the session, I will have to make warnings, apologize, especially to the comrades of the majority. Please don't throw a colleague to Vukadinovic. A colleague of Martinovic, please. (Alexander Martinovic: Let him talk about the agenda point. Finish it, colleague Vukadinović. Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57729	I don't have to go on, Mr. Marinkovic, but I could not come and not say this. I think it is important and it is not difficult, as you did not hate to schedule these sessions differently, make sure you respect the principles of parliamentary democracy at least a little more formally. You, Mr. Martinovic, either you won't or you can't. Among other things, it's the respect of colleagues who think differently. As I am, no matter what I think of some of you, not all of you, so I'm still trying to speak as culturally, politely, even with those who probably don't deserve it. But you did not show that kind of correctness to even present representatives of the institution that is on the agenda today, and especially to absent Mr. Sabic. The report, therefore, is correct, appropriate, one of the better reports we've seen here and I think in that sense it's being done and prepared by a team that is serious and who knows its job. You have succeeded, and you will vote for that report, not to say a single positive word and thing. Only literally one fellow MP from the assembly majority, and not from your party, said something good, and perhaps one colleague said something moderately neutral. You've all actually spit on both the institution and the trustee's personality. I'm not defending him. I just think that the importance of the subject and the importance of the institution and, let's be fair, the delicacy of the institution and everyone who comes, and I said that to the newly elected, or to your candidate, so, who I said was correct, I really can't have big objections to him and his biography, but he'll be under a lot of pressure and above all your pressure, pressure from the majority. And everyone would be, and everyone would be, because he must calm the fire and the water in the name of the institution itself. The name has two dimensions, on the one hand there is freedom, the availability of information and on the other hand is protection of personal data. So this requires one delicateness, requires one sensitivity, one feeling that is not easy and is not easy to apply in any particular situation. How to prevent cohesion and conflict, public interest or public action for the availability of certain information and on the other hand the need not to go too far, as is often exaggerated. I'm afraid that our public opinion, our public opinion, is going from one extreme to another, and that it's slaughtering into it that everything is a secret and that everything is a secret or that everything is at your disposal. That's why it's an important institution, that's why it's an important person, that's why this team that's Mr. Sabic is important, I'm going to say and I'm going to end it, it's not out of my sight, it's not related to me, it's not God's help, we don't know each other personally or politically. I mean, he's done enough to put that institution on his feet. This institution has become recognizable, appreciated, praised. I mean, were there any mistakes, I'm sure, but I think it's very important that you don't... (Alexander Martinovic: Come on, make a mistake.) If there's a chance, and I think it will be. (Alexander Martinovic: You have a chance. Take it easy, take it easy, Mr. Martinovic. You're looking for a replica, so I'll tell you. So, I want to say, and I want to say that to whoever comes to Mr. Sabic's place to continue this teamwork, to make mistakes and miss, if there were, and certainly there were, correct them, and to continue to resist the pressure or resist the pressure above all, of course, of the authorities, but also other stakeholders and centres that also in some way sought the back, the back, the back, and in some ways asked that institution to do the job for them and to do the job for them. So, an important institution, I'm not in favour of her abolition, as I haven't been to abolishing the municipal police, and I'm not in favour of this either, but it's a responsibility on you and your team and now with a new captain who will come, I suppose, in a few days so much bigger, especially if you have this kind of climate in society, in public, and also in the National Assembly, as you could still see today, and which unfortunately isn't an accident, because I'm afraid it's becoming our everyday life. It's about the institution. As for these discussions and controversys of ours, they will continue, fortunately for you, without your presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57730	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57731	Here's why. And they don't know themselves anymore whether or not they're in the boycott, is selective or unselective, because this is literally identical from the beginning of this call. When they say they're in a boycott and they say they're not in a boycott, they're doing the same thing. They've been gone all God's day until 7:15 a.m. What were they doing? Where were they walking? Is that cappuccino foam or beer foam? I absolutely don't care. But then they come to 19.15 and to us who have been here all day and who are discussing the agenda, what is the subject of the debate, the salt of the mind, and then they talk – and what are we going to say, and what are we going to vote? In doing so, they have no idea in the National Assembly, they have no idea what the subject is, they have no idea what the content of the report is, and they have no idea what we want or we don't want to vote on, so they can learn something. We will make clear the conclusions proposed by the Assembly Committee. We're not voting for the report this one or that one, we're going to vote for those conclusions. But he doesn't know the one who nods his head, because if he did, that's what he would have said earlier. But he doesn't know anything, so he doesn't know that either. The other thing, is it mentioned or not to mention the one who's not here? Let's ask the opposite question. It's acceptable for them to talk about Alexander Wolfich every day from morning to night for a million times, and they don't care if he's here or not, it actually suits them that he's not close to them, because then they're a little braver, they feel better. Do these days also wash their mouths with Nebojsa Stefanovic? Do they have a lot of questions as to whether this man is here or not? Well, they'll be a lot braver when they're standing alone in front of those microphones they're having dialogue with, in fact, monologues, who serve them the way we've explained today that they're serving them, both their daily papers and their Sunday papers and whatever TVs they're doing here, which is more borderline and out-of-border. And with that company, in such an environment they are very brave and strong. We're supposed to have a conversation with, what's said, Wolf Jeremic when he's here. Well, the Wolf of Jeremiah is nowhere these days, he's nowhere, because he's stuck in a mouse hole. And he crawled into a mouse hole because he can't look people in the eye, he can't explain his words, what he is, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, the entire yellow crew from that DS company worked, by their own admission, with their own words to Serbia-Montenegro, is why he can't look anyone in the eye, so there's something missing, they say he's in Turkey right now. He's on that path. And the question is, which way are we going? We're on the same path we've been on since the moment we started dealing with politics, the same way. The European path, for information on what he's asking, which is surprising, has been explained by his comrades. Did we read their words the other day, he says – for us the story of the European path, for them, was always just a good story and a good mechanism for us to win some elections. We've never done this before, and we don't care. What do they care? They said it again, and we read their words, so here's to remind ourselves. They were interested in boards, they were interested in foreign exchange accounts, they were interested in the millions they had put into those accounts, they were interested in luxurious life, new suits and expensive cars. (President: Thank you, Dr. Orlic. You're bringing the end. Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. Hitler and fascism are their image and opportunity, those who think that we are less valuable, that we are beings of lower value, and among other things, and that which claims that we are people who have survived the stroke, hit on the head, we do not know that we speak and do not know the last name of Alexander Vukic to say, we are so lower beings. It's their fascism and their Hitlerism. How about we change sides, what did Alexander Martinovic call on a little while ago? Well, let him speak to himself, when everything he says and thinks comes from himself, Aleksandar Martinovic has never traded for his information with his national feelings, and who here was Vlah for a little term and a little money and a little kebab in the restaurant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57732	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica now has Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57733	The president spoke to the predecessor for up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57734	Here, you have so much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57735	Thank you. I hope I don't need it. So I know what electronic records are about, you can see how much I've been present, but that's a smaller part of this congregation's majority, these are being used for months or years since the beginning of this call. Directly false, I say, lies and manipulation, counting that people don't know or can't check things out and do it all the time. First of all, today I've been practically here all day and in the O.R., so, like this, and if I hadn't, I've seen you Mr. Martinović and Mr. Orlic, I've watched all of your lines this morning, all of your exhibitions, and I've been here more than enough, more than half of your MPs, Mr.... (Alexander Martinovic: Where have you been? Where did you look at me? Sir, more than half or two of your MPs who are here, but there are more important things than that, so if I hadn't come and if I had come, you didn't say that to Mrs. Macuri, you didn't have a problem because she came and you shouldn't have problems. Your MPs were much smaller than me here. (Alexander Martinovic: And where are yours? So, I know what this is about, I followed very closely, I read this report very carefully. On the other hand, when some topics that I'm not sure or I don't think are of great importance to the citizens of Serbia or I'm simply not skilled enough in them, then I'm not taking the floor. So when I take my word, I'm just talking about what I know or what I've studied and what I've been asking very well about, unlike my colleagues, from some colleagues from the ruling majority who always speak the same mantra, they only make up praise at the expense of the government and the president. It doesn't matter what the context is, it's only important to spit on political opponents and boast and glorify the leader. As for the absent, the criticism of the absent or present opponents, I don't know if you've noticed, I'm less than I've had to say in the face of Alexander Vukic, and that's why I came and came back to this home. I don't speak behind my back, even you here when I don't have to take it in my mouth and talk and try to speak in principle. As I said to Mrs. Brnabic, as many as I could in the seven or eight minutes I had available when the government was. So you can't honor me, Mr. Eagle, that I'm doing something behind my back. Of course, I haven't changed any national definitions or anything else, your leader, if we're going to say so, although I tried not to take it into my mouth now, but he's changed his ideological beliefs, you've changed, Mr. Martinovic's beliefs several times, but it's not about that, respect the institution we're sitting in. No one's perfect, no one's sinless, but I'm telling you again, please and I appeal, let's cut a little bit of passion, or we're getting ridiculous and desperate. Collectively, believe me, in the eyes of people who look at it so superficially and on the side or worse, we become contagious, and then they will divide and vehemently argue and maybe fight in the streets, and that can't be the goal especially when we have a country that is in a position where Serbia is with all the problems it has both economically and politically. In that name, I appeal and end it, we reduce a small amount of negative energy, not to love and embrace but to be able to look for that minimum of consensus that may be possible between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57736	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57737	I look at the clock, I see the last seven at night, and I say, "Here comes the man." And I get an answer -- no, I've been watching you. So, he participates in the work of the National Assembly a National MP who, for example, sits in a capital bar and can look at us from there, that's what this comes down to, right? I say, then what's the mistake of beer foam and cappuccino foam? Is something wrong with Alexander Vukic when he says -- well, that's a picture and an opportunity of those who would like to deal with us, to drag us down the street, to point a long pipe at our heads, we know what they're threatening to do and what they're saying in public. Watched over TV, but only till half past five, because then tennis starts. He couldn't look any further, and that's why he doesn't know what's on the agenda, and what we're going to say is, he came here to learn something, probably, although he claims to know. He asked around and said, "He's very brave, he never does anything behind anyone's back." Well, now, I really don't know. As I recall, the moment he left the Democratic Party's premises here at the Terrace, it was a year or two ago, he lost his seat in the Democratic Party of Serbia. So Jovanovic had to explain how many hundreds of thousands of dinars were monthly asked of him, so he said - no, it won't do that. But that was after the consults, here, on the terraces. It is the famous office of the Democratic Party, no longer marked by the Democratic Party, because the inscription is now Dragan Gilas. And the inscription Dragan Gilas is on the subject of the path, because those who go through the money end up with him and under his firm. So this office, and this whole side that sits in bars all day, looks at us or doesn't look at us and says, "We're being ridiculous." There's nothing funny, but nothing funny about you underestimating the people of Serbia, when you call it credentials, illiterate, illiterate, when you yell the skin off his back, when in the number of 600,000 souls you throw it out onto the street that there's no bread, when you owe him children, and you ruin the future. That's all, just not funny. Who was trading for what? None of us here have been running for... (President: Thank you. To finish the sentence. ... the minority list of the weeds of the national minority. And you don't think you know who did? Well, you know how it is. Do you think you don't know why? Well, it's also known -- for the same reasons we see and suffer this behavior as we do in this session, for a little bit of a term, for a little more money, and for a little bit of a kevap, that doesn't come badly either.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-0.u57738	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. I'd like to finish the session. The differences here are insurmountable. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I'm concluding a unique search. We'll continue to work on the next item tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you, everyone. [[The session was suspended at 20.00 hours]]
