ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 73 MPs are present. To determine the number of present in the hall, please insert the cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are catches for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that they are invited to attend: Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Employment of the Borary and Social Affairs, Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy, Jelena Tanasković and Slavica Savičić, State Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mines and Energy, Aleksandar Gajević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Darko Komnenic and Dr Dragan Dimirović, Deputy Minister of Finance, Zoran Milošević and Sasa Trandafilić, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Radan Kostić, Director for Social Insurance of Military Insurance, Dragan Kalinović, Director of the Republic Fund for Pensions and the Slovenian Fund for Pensions, Minister for Pensions and Disožannić, Minister of Finance, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We're going back to work. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go, colleague Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65031	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, in today's debate we have a set of laws on tax obligations and we have a very important law before us, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Pension-Inhabitation Act. Today we are talking about a law that regulates over a million and 700,000 of our fellow citizens, and those of the oldest, large numbers of our citizens, according to whom this law will have certain benefits for them in the coming period, i.e. at the time of retirement. It is therefore necessary for some additional proposals to improve this law and be in the capacity to protect our oldest citizens. Certainly, the reasons for the adoption of this law also arise from the need to further regulate the PIO system and create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the economic system on the one hand and create conditions that will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of current and future pensioners. The reform of the PIO on pension-inhabitation insurance has been carried out for many years and as the minister mentioned yesterday – since 2002, 2003, 2005, 2010, 2014 and 2012 and the measures implemented were mostly restrictive, which partially improves this law. Some will say that these measures have been adapted to the economic conditions of state and society, demographic movements, negative relations between the number of employees and the number of pensioners and others. However, we of the PUPS believe that, in addition to these reasons, and perhaps insufficient concern for our oldest citizens, i.e. current and future pensioners. The pension system is one of the most complex systems in society and as such directly or indirectly is extremely important for almost all citizens of the country. First of all, these systems provide income to our oldest citizens, current pensioners and those who will become in the future. Therefore, as the PUPS and Mr Milan Krokobabic are well known, they have launched an open social dialogue on the necessity of reforming the pension and disability system and the Law on PIO. A United Pensioners Party of Serbia has launched dialogue and everyone has been invited. We offered some suggestions, but not final solutions. We believe that through solutions in constructive co-operation and atmosphere, the best solutions will also be made regarding the pension system and the Law on PIO. These are talks that should not bypass pensioners' associations primarily as representatives of the largest population in the country, representative trade unions, the NGO sector, the professional public, labour representatives and relevant political parties. It is clear that final solutions will still be resolved and decided by the MPs in this House, and I am pleased to find that over 60 years a total of 70 MPs who will have a little greater regard for this law because they are expected to do so in the very near future by applying this law to them personally. The decision to stop reducing pensions is very good. This decision he insisted on opened the space for us to enter into something called a serious reform of the pension system. That reform needs to be phased out. The first step is a sustainable legislative solution that will regulate this problem and we, today, have one law that will try in some way to legally-formally regulate everything regarding pensions and pension insurance. Today we are talking about amendments to the Law on PIO, a law that should ensure the carefree life of our oldest citizens. Such solutions, comprehensive and stable, should completely exclude any influence of individuals, groups, parties, but also legitimate concern for people that pension is increased or not and will be increased. It is therefore important to regulate all these questions by law that there is no dilemma and no reflection on it. When we talk about pensioners, we are witnesses that everyone's mouth is full of caring for pensioners, but I can tell that few people have applied, or few who participated in the discussions and the dialogue on changes and additions from the pension disability system and the PIO Act. When we talk about the Law on PIO, there have been several amendments and additions and various recommendations of certain structures, in particular the Fiscal Council, as well as proposals and recommendations of individual experts for this area. For the time being, those whose law is concerned are pensioners who made a major contribution to stabilising state finances and stabilising the Republic of Serbia's budget. For years, the United Pensioners Party of Serbia has been seeking to bring pensions into line under the 3P formula - pensions following salaries, and we believe that it is the most just formula to ensure pension growth with salary growth. This formula ensures that pensioners are not citizens of the second order, as some transitional solution of the PUPS would also be for proposals from the Fiscal Council that take into account inflation, i.e. the growth of earnings, which is that pensions are aligned 40% with costs and 60% with profit growth, as is the case with Slovenia's former Republic of Yugoslavia, but the model is 30% based on the increase in cost of life and 70% based on the increase in earnings, as is the case with Malta and other European countries. Certainly, if the Swiss formula were replaced with these proposals of the Fiscal Council, it would give much more security to the pensioners. This Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO proposes solutions to the Swiss model, harmonising pensions 50% with profit growth and 50% with consumer prices. This Swiss model of pension coordination we had in 2003 until 2005, which then reduced the average pension to 42% of the average salary with the trend of further decline in the average pension. When we talk about legal formulations, the question of the bill is raised, what does the consumer price rise mean, or what indices are used, which indices will be used to measure that growth? That's what we'd like to get today's answer from the legislator of this bill. Also, there is a question about the other 50% alignment with profit growth, whether total earnings, real sector earnings or public sector earnings are meant? It is necessary to define it precisely by this law. The adoption of laws in the proposed text without improvement or initial solutions will also constantly reduce the average pension against the average salary. The United Pensioners Party of Serbia will certainly seek to amend the law and thus ensure that it is acceptable, particularly in the part of the harmonisation formula, that is, Article 23, which is amended by article 80. We propose that the proposal of the Fiscal Council be incorporated into the 1st position and that pension coordination be 40% with consumer prices and 60% with profit growth, i.e. a better variant would be 70% with profit growth and 30% with consumer prices growth. In this way, they would partially protect pensioners in order to create a difference between the average pension and the average salary to obtain conditions for moving to formula 3P, i.e. pensions following wages. Also, it is necessary to install into the law a safeguard mechanism to protect the reduction of the average pension below someone, i.e. the average salary, for example, to regulate the new amendment to reduce the average pension from an average salary below a percentage, whether it is 60%, 55% or 50%, that pensions are extraordinaryly coordinated. The United Pensioners Party of Serbia also submitted an amendment to regulate the issue in such a way as to protect pensioners, that the average pension does not fall below 50% of the average salary. I think these solutions are acceptable, given that the finances are stable and the budget is stable and that we need to meet our oldest citizens. This law should regulate, in addition to the average pension level and the lowest pensions, we of the PUPS believe that the lowest pensions do not allow a decent life of old age and that this situation needs to be improved. One way to determine the lowest pension should be to bind or regulate or be similar to setting the lowest labour price to the working population. Another way is to define a new social policy, which would clearly and precisely look at the material situation of citizens with small pensions, as was the case with Belgrade pensioners who received quarterly assistance during one period, all those who had lower pensions, and there were about 65,000, as was the case in 2012 to 2014 when the law provided quarterly assistance for all pensioners with lower incomes, and then covered about 400,000 pensioners who received quarterly aid of four thousand, which amounted to an annual level of 16 thousand, and then popularly named as the thirteenth pension. A party of united pensioners Serbia that pension is an economic category and is defined by previous contributions to pension and disability insurance. Therefore, a new social policy is needed to create social tickets for pensioners and provide the necessary funding for social contributions beyond the PIO Fund. Mr. Minister, you've announced the making of social cards and it's been a very good initiative. I don't know how far it's come with that initiative, but there are opportunities and ways to make social tickets for all pensioners. The United Pensioners Party of Serbia will support changes and additions to this law after improving amendments as a transitional solution, but continues to propose and insist on the rule, i.e. 3P - pensions follow wages, as is the case with Germany and Sweden, and we are now pursuing as a state of those standards. The United Pensioners Party of Serbia is not without reason in favour of the 3P formula - pensions follow the salary, because it is the only model that guarantees that pensioners will be in an equal position with employees and will not be citizens of the second row. When I talk about the 3P model, it means how much percentage of professors, doctors, officers, officers and other public servants, the percentage of pension growth should follow that growth and be as percentage similar as for professors, doctors, officers, police officers and other state officials who are retired. If we had a case in 2014 when he threatened to go bankrupt, the government decided to cut salaries and pensions and then pensions were reduced to the same percentage as salaries. Then it is just and just that the same model is applied to the increase in wages and pensions. The PUPS then supported the measures proposed by the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, at the time, to stabilise public finances. Thanks to these measures, he prevented the bankruptcy of the state and public finances and the budget was stabilised. It is precisely one of the reasons for stabilising finance and budgets, for some solutions in PIO to be resolved differently. At that time, the 3P - pensions followed the salary, the reduction in wages and pensions. Pensioners agreed to be treated as well as their children and grandchildren who were in a working relationship. The decision to cut pensions through the suspension of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid in 2014 received very broad support from pensioners and in general in society. However, a large number of pensioners and pensioners' associations remained to recover reduced pensions. Discussing these issues, 170 municipal and city associations of pensioners and the Alliance of pensioners of Serbia in general, he took a unique stance on the need to regain reduced pensions. The United Pensioners Party of Serbia believes that this issue must be approached very seriously and responsibly, to first determine the total amount of funding the pensioners gave, and to prepare, on the basis of established data, the Serbian government's recovery models and define the dynamics of the return in accordance with the finances, i.e. consolidation and financing and budgets. A party of united pensioners of Serbia will vote in favour of the amendment law and the additions of the PIO Law in the day of voting, following the improvement of this law to amendments. When we talked about making a social ticket for pensioners, Mr. Minister, you can use the services of the Union of Pensioners of Serbia as a representative representative of pensioners and their 170 members throughout and mostly volunteering. I believe that the Union of Pensioners of Serbia will respond to your call for co-operation and help create social tickets for pensioners. I will mention one piece of information that goes in this direction, which is that a few years ago, the city's pensioner organisation Nis and the Third Age Movement Nis in co-operation with the “Svet Sava” Social Labour Centro, Nis and the Ministry of Labour conducted a project of a list of single, old-age households in Nis and surveyed close to 18,000 respondents. This database is set up at the “Sveti Sava” Social Labour Centre in Nis, based on which the Centre for Social Work has introduced new social protection services. Due to such a relationship between pensioners and pensioners, the government and the Ministry should give special attention to the Alliance of Pensioners and the associations of the cities of pensioners and Nis to treat them as partners who can make many proposals with their own contribution, and that they also do many specific things at the level of local self-government. In addition to the Law on PIO, I would like to talk briefly about some issues on the agenda, above all about the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the amendments to the SOVO Fund's financial plan, which is expected to increase the volume of funds to the FON by 400 million and most of these funds would be used to provide health care, which is very positive. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, it is very important to extend all reliefs for new employees in 2020, which is also an important issue for next year. With regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, simplifications were made to certain stages in the tax procedure, which certainly enables easier procedures. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes, which is also in the interpretation of Finance and Labour Ministers as the most important change, and refers to an increase in the non-taxable amount of earnings from 15.300 to 16.300 dinars per month, as well as reliefs for qualified newly employed in innovation activities. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes has made a number of adjustments to the laws adopted in the meantime and defined the amounts of fees paid to individual shops and services. As well as the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on property taxes, the change is the essence of the suspension of the obligation to apply for inheritance and gift tax when such proceedings were carried out by a public notary. There are also a few other laws that are in this unique debate and I believe that the most positive solutions proposed by these laws and the PUPS will vote in the voting day not only for the PIO Act, but for all the draft laws and decisions proposed at this session. Thank you if I can get answers to these questions I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65032	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65033	We have a few questions for the Ministers of Resort. First for the finance minister. This formula newly established, I think it deserves to be more detailed to the public what it means. Of course, this first formulation is accepted that these are young people who once left Serbia or whose parents left Serbia and have a desire to return. They have somehow successfully or confirmed their success abroad and now Serbia is seeking to create a legal opportunity for such people to return and work here and to free their employer from much of the contribution. There's one chill, it's not phobic, that you don't get me wrong, since earlier conversations were held when DOS was in power with its current, and then Chancellor Merkel, when they return, exiled, or refugees, who are resident in Germany, Western Europe. Then she considered the possibility of returning to the land where they came from. Now, what's important here. We are all witnessing that some resolute ministers boasted that when migrants entered Serbia they had to give their data, they had to be identified and they had to give their fingerprints at the very least. In all nomenclatures that are valid, the country where they came from is the country where they gave their data and where they went, in fact, to Western Europe. It is no problem, if the idea of this government is to integrate these people into Serbia as a society, because when Western Europe does, of course, selectively, and it is in a very small percentage, why Serbia could not keep some quality people as well. But the return and the conversation on the inclusion of Western Europeans is with some agreement they have signed before, we remember, Djelic stressed, that it is no problem for Serbia to accept and a new number of residents and is always followed by one financial arrangement. We have an example of Bulgaria, where this is a very bad example, when there was an inclusion and a return from Western European countries with treatment for migrants, there were problems in Bulgaria, in all domains, especially in the domains of security. So Bulgaria still has that problem today. They were to be settled on the peripheral parts of Bulgaria in the border belts, but you know that when poverty is, when the economic crisis is, each by nature of things goes into larger urban environments, because it increases the possibility that it can find a job and eventually find the means to survive him and his family and it comes down to coming into the metropolis, or in the capital, in this case Sofia. In Sofia, there is a major problem, especially the security and accommodation of those persons returned from Western European countries. That is why we insist that Serbian radicals are given a clear explanation and explanation here in front of the public, and it is not a bad idea to reduce the employer's contribution on behalf of hiring new persons. It was recently presented by the Serbian government as the idea that even their salaries would somehow be compensated at the height of those they had for those who were successful, who proved themselves in Western Europe, which is optimistic, but hardly feasible in any case. As far as the TV subscription is concerned, Mr. Minister, as long as in Serbia, people who turn on the ring or the oven to pay for the TV subscription will pay for television and radio for the public service? It was understandable that in a period when there was an economic crisis, when there were sanctions, this problem had to be resolved in some way, because it was called into question the functioning of public service information houses. Then a solution was found to be with the electricity bill to pay the TV subscription. We've heard here many times in the past years that we've come out of the economic crisis, and it's even been in some claims that we've entered the golden age, and I think we should think about it now. We Serbian radicals believe that this is being resolved in a different way, not only do you collect this fee on a TV subscription from 230 to 250 dinars, of course, it will always come up with an explanation and an explanation – it is not some large amount, and the information service has to work, it has to public information, which is under the auspices of the state, that it works. But, gentlemen, in a situation where people who are employed are fighting for every penny, not to mention pensioners who are helping and how for the financial assistance they need, 250 dinars a month is not a small amount. It's an annual significant expense. You can't... And besides, why would this TV subscription be paid by those who don't even have a TV camera? Because it's so imagined that whoever has an electrician, the one who pays the electricity, and the TV subscription. Then you have an absurd situation that in some places in Serbia you have an electricity bill that is much less than a TV subscription, which is these households that have remained abandoned, where only one member of the family is left and in the late years. So we attend some things that are not desirable. The injustice is against people who don't even watch, they don't have a TV camera. There is a solution to prove that there is no TV apparatus, but until it proves, in the process of proof, it has to pay this fee neatly at 250 dinars for television. Why don't we talk about the point? If RTS and TV public service claim to be independent, that their programme is completely independent, why do they keep so much account, some quality of the programme, most of it collects the compensation, so that they can support a part of the quality of the programme, and no matter what their quality of the programme, Serbian citizens have to pay them a TV subscription. Which, please, my colleague Jojic, we'll talk about the animal world later, now it's serious stuff. It's a good thing here that the base of those who and who are supposed to be taxpayers, pay contributions and pay taxes is expanding. Here we have one proposal that is very, very good, which is that it is predicted that from the next period, from the flat-rate tax to the regular bookkeeping of so-called bookkeeping. consultants in information technology. It's hard to define because the definition itself has no logic and no reality, it's people who earn no small funds, we've heard here that over a billion total income from this activity and the flat-rate tax payment is primarily for those who are not qualified to keep books or are not financially able to run bookkeeping when it comes to their business. We think that this is not bad, not only because of the budget, but also because of them who work as consultants, there are doctors, there are lawyers. Lawyers will find this difficult to accept, we had a situation a few years ago when they were in protest, when one of the ideas was similar to this or almost the same as this, when lawyers in their strike somehow forced government representatives to give up such an idea, but they should not give up, in any case, they should reduce the possibility of a gray economy in Serbia and do so, among other things, by still having to show real revenues through accounting management. There's a bit of a caricature when it comes to, say, certain professions, certain professions, when it comes to doctors, and then it comes down to and off to whether doctors are going to issue a fiscal bill, as it is in a store, as it is in a megamarket. It's not the point, it's the essence of keeping books or having someone run bookkeeping so that the state can register as much as they do in their private offices, clinics, make revenue, and pay and contribute and taxes in proportion, and not that they sort of avoid what would be perfectly normal. As for the proposal for some tax reliefs, we think Serbian radicals, that if you are not already on this proposal, about the release of tax obligations of farmers or peasants who own a country of up to five hectares, the area of five hectares. Or consider the possibility of liberating agricultural land for those who, per family member, have a maximum of two hectares of arable land. So this proposal has one logic, when you look at the revenues that have been made on the name of the tax from these households that have a maximum of five hectares, you'll see, comparisons for, that the retailer is more expensive than that paper at the end of the year when you send them to pay taxes than the total value of taxes and what they need to pay. There are approximately so few amounts, and within the framework of this programme, we believe that people return to the country to deal with agriculture, especially in the most part, not counting on Pomoravlje and Vojvodina, in the rest of Serbia. The average households are currently in possession of this area of agricultural land. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is not on the agenda, but the minister pompously said it was below 10%. It would be very good if it were based on some real parameters, that it was really statistical data that was monitored over the year and that corresponded to reality. But these are so-called. the survey data carried out by the agency rented from Germany, which is essential in the following. They call respondents in Serbia 1700 how much I remember it, out of 1700 respondents the first question is whether you ever worked. It doesn't matter if he worked one day, a month, a week, or he still works, if he says – yes, he's in the employee category. It is something to show but should not be used in situations like this when serious talk about the problem of unemployment that has arisen not only from economic reality but from the fact that not a small number of young people are moving from Serbia, they go to Western Europe from different initiatives. Most of the time, unfortunately, it is from solving its economic problems, the need for work abroad. There are also those who leave to raise their standard, but it's much less than those who solve their existence. Otherwise, this migration process is present all over the world, and those who work and live in Germany, they are also those who are changing the environment, going to America, going to a higher standard. We are not in a situation like the state to discuss this problem, we are in a position to see how to keep these young, unemployed or those who are employed but who do not have enough income to stay here in Serbia, given all these facts, this is a growing problem, and then with this data on the state of employment, a completely different picture is created in the public. This is not some topic or desire for us to break a spear here, but only to see realistically what the situation in Serbia is like. The government comes forward with a proposal after the adoption of the Budget Law with this follow-up so-called. The laws, and that's common, nothing is an exception when it comes to this government, coming out with a proposal that the total contribution to profit is reduced from 62% to 61%. It has the possibility to be 60%, from 62% to 60%, but the government believes that, as the minister explained, it would be a big bite right now, with the government not excluding the possibility of it coming to a total of 60%. We Serbian radicals believe that this should be done as soon as possible, to disperse employers, to disperse as many businesses as possible, so that in the coming years, in the coming period, because we do not expect it to be so quickly, the economy could recover as quickly as possible, and those who are welcome to open up a greater opportunity to hire a new workforce. It is one process that, in any case, in our radicals, will last much longer than the government presents in public. Here's a proposal to contribute to pension insurance from 12% to 11.5%, and we come to the right theme, a topic that is part of all these accompanying laws, that's the theme of pensions and pensions. We have an almost incredible situation that people who have worked for 30, 40 years, part of their incomes through contributions and taxes, have been paying into a pension fund. It's simplified. They gave the state that money for the past 30 or 40 years has saved them that money without much interest and without any great opportunity to earn it. They calculated that a possible reduction in the real value of that money would be accompanied by a periodic increase in pensions. When they came into the situation that the state as a guarantee of the security of their capital reached for something that was almost impossible to believe that the state was taking it from the pensioners, explaining that it was for a rebirth, for overcoming the economic crisis, for Serbia to be saved in this way, and the same government that was currently spending much more money on various agencies, on administration, on the Mining-Topionary Baseline "Boor", where the incompetent leadership of each year has drawn much more than the pensioners singled out. Then there was a simple explanation that there was no others but that wages and pensions had to be reduced, so that the state could be liquid. Now that we're talking about a model for raising pensions, we're talking about a period of post-increasing wages in the public sector. In the public sector, wages are on average increased by 8 to 9%, and here pensions are increasing by a very interesting model. They increase, first of all, once a year, as we understand it, only once a year, they don't coordinate and there's no possibility that they'll assume to be coordinated more than once a year. What's very interesting is that when we look at what that model is, then we see that these pensions are further reduced. The model predicts that it is one half of Serbia's average income and that half the percentage of the increase is said to be consumer prices. This is all statistics. This is also susceptible to manipulation. Real pensions will fall below 48%, average pensions relative to the average salary, which is in any case devastating.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65034	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65035	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, today's search involves 11 draft legislative solutions whose basis is, in fact, the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we adopted yesterday, which is actually a basic document that shows how far Serbia has progressed in its economic growth and that fiscal consolidation is over, and that the rise of Serbia's citizens' standards is on stage. Accordingly, first of all, we have a draft law on granting consent to decisions on the PIO Fund's financial plan for military insurance, where Article 1. The Law on the Budgetary System The National Assembly must give its consent to this plan. The plan shows that 36,519 million dinars of Serbia's state-run dinars had higher incomes on the basis of general insurance related to military insurance, i.e. increased social security rights on different grounds, such as: pharmaceutical services, material procurement aids, health care devices, as well as insurance companies living abroad and military delegations. Thus, the 36,519 million with an existing 5.4 billion plan virtually gives the possibility that the new plan is increased by these funds and amounts to 5,436,519.000, which is actually how much it will be possible for military insurance companies to seek out certain rights under the law and thus the state itself is able to solve many problems in this part of social security. The next draft law relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to PIO provides, in fact, reforms that we have been implementing since 2014, which apply to the business environment in general. As we can see, these results related to the inflow of foreign direct investment for the past year, all international institutions and leading economic magazines in the world, have declared Serbia the first country leading in this area and which is most interesting for investments and for those companies that come from both east and west. It shows the essential possibility that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the finance ministry proposed for next year a reduction in the cost of employers related to the PIO tax from 26% to 25.5% and to the employer's burden of 12% is reduced to 11.5%. In fact, it represents an additional 13 billion dinars in Serbia's budget that employers will have the opportunity to distribute in the way they think about their employees, which means they will either hire new people or raise salaries to their employees. The next draft law relating to the change in the tax procedure and the tax administration simply regulates how the tax administration works. This introduces new systems, acts that primarily allow eGovernment authorities to have contacts and do most of their work with the IRS, namely, that number of departures to the IRS and contact with the IRS are increasingly in the process of digitisation and thus through local self-government itself, and this process of digitisation is being brought down to these local tax administration units somewhere, but somewhere it is the order that is talking about improving the control of the IRS itself when it comes to the storage and accommodation of goods and the operation of works in the premises and premises that are out of control of the IRS. It's just not possible anymore. So, you can't cheat on the state anymore, if you're an employer, so you say -- my lager is somewhere, here by the books, just look at the books, but you also have at the same place as the business books and the goods you show as an employer in contact with the tax administration control, and therefore, everything that's really true, you pay at certain rates that the state has now reduced, precisely in order to introduce the greatest possibility that even those who may have so far been wrong in the way of functioning, simply form into rules that are subject to taxation. As for certain precisions of certain provisions, they speak for the objective of effective repression of the grey economy and are, in fact, giving a complete picture of how the state is responsible for tax policy. The most interesting part of the bill that we've had here is the tax procedure and tax administrative fees. When we talk about taxes, that we've abolished a large number of taxis, then there's nowhere to be heard today about how many of the opposition benches have been asking for years to be abolished. But, you know, local self-government funded from those cabs. Now comes the time when simple and local self-governments themselves have higher incomes than property taxes and when they have simply and financially stepped on their feet and the state has allowed certain confirmations and fees to be paid to those certificates to be abolished. So, let's say, the certificates you get by electronic means from the IRS, from the National Employment Service, from the PIO Fund, as well as requests for licenses from detective activity, certificates you get for hunting weapons purposes, as well as a reduction in patent registration fees. The traffic register itself, which refers to traffic, are also lifted. This is of great importance because the citizens of Serbia, after all, will feel this discharge because they are daily in contact with certain local self-governments that charge these taxes and which they are going to do, and I think it is a huge relief of the problem when we talk about just going to the counters and doing the work that affects us all equally. When we talk about the Property Act, i.e. property taxes, it's a law that has caused a lot of debate on the Committee, because it's this IT profession, which speaks of how small entrepreneurs today open their companies, especially from the IT area, co-operate with the big ones. There's been a lot of talk about that so-called. the independence test, i.e. the rule that the tax officer must go to the scene to determine whether the small entrepreneur is actually carrying out that activity and then happens, let's say, that he goes to large companies, that these small ones use large companies' rooms, use their computers, use everything, and that there are simply certain criteria, even listed on the basis of international standards, in collaboration with the complete IT industry, and all interested entities in society have made one proposal out of those nine criteria, in which simply five is enough to own that so-called. The P.I.B. and did that bit of work. Whether individual entrepreneurs may have a problem with this at the moment, because they may not simply present to tax officials that they are truly independent in this business is a matter indeed of the IT community, which has proved to be one of the very capable of negotiating with both the Ministry of Finance and the representatives of the government. Because, after all, this government has also launched this whole digitisation process and really raised that entire industry, because we wouldn't have had this much exports to this IT sector and we wouldn't have an income of almost a billion euros if this sector hadn't opened up like this. After all, you, Mr. Minister, have given this bill the opportunity for newly opened small businesses not to pay, so they have subsidies, reliefs, of 70% when it comes to paying the flat-rate tax, next year 70%, in 2021. 65%, 2021, 60%, not only for those dealing with IT, innovation, but also for those returning from abroad, and we have seen that there are people coming back, both in the IT sector and in the health sector. It's a big thing that Mr. Lonchar said yesterday, that medical personnel are coming back from abroad and they want to work in our hospitals. Also, 5,500 people who worked, so-called Free Lancers still work in the software industry for some foreign companies, and payments are done abroad and they don't have their own companies here. The state has opened subsidies in the IT sector, simply lighting up the sector by disturbing them more and more to open their business activities, or agencies, in which they will do the same, plus they will get a grant from the state and will work for large companies as well, and will have a 70% relief for paying the flat-rate tax. So the state is very responsible for this sector and I think that if there are any differences with the individuals in this sector, of course, I think we're all open to helping. When we talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the PIO fund, I have to say that these amendments and the additions of the law are really rooted now, because for the first time we have the application of that Swiss formula in a domain that talks primarily about the alignment of half percent, so we're not talking 50% of the pension, but 50% is about that one percent that's going to be an increase, for the part that we're monitoring the price hike to a small part and the second part, 50% increase, is about, of 1%, that's about the share of the increase or the salary, but we're talking about the net amount, meaning, without taxes and contributions. The net amount of the average salary is seen compared to the previous 12 months and the last one seen is June this year, which will be seen, compared to June next year. So these 12 months are really being watched very carefully. Prices are observed, wages rise, average salaries in the Republic of Serbia are observed, and today, if compared in 2012, when the average salaries were 320 euros, today more than 500 euros, it shows a big difference in Serbia's real progress. When we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, I must first of all say that these are equal rights of marriage and non-marriage, and that is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia at all, precisely because we are talking about the need to increase ethnicity. Therefore, the rights of marriage mates to equalize the right to inherit, when it comes to pensions, are of great importance to many people. When we talk about the necessary costs, let's say, that have been changed to compensate for the costs of performing certain funerals per specific user of the PIO fund, so far, the PIO Fund has had a big problem because the total costs have been calculated according to the user who died. Otherwise, the law doesn't know it in the world, and that's why these changes had to happen, so now practically whoever paid all these expenses, when we talk about the funeral costs themselves, is now refunding these costs personally. So it's not being kept in the records of the dead, which shows essentially that according to these standards we are becoming, harmonising our legislation with both the EU and the world. When we talk about solving the problem, this law solves problems related to agricultural pensioners, but we are also talking about problems that were faced by the members of the MUP, members of the BIA, because their rights were not uniform as the rights of all pensioners, so now, indeed, by this law we are changing a lot and, ultimately, we are improving the responsibilities of the employees themselves, because they are now getting so-called. Official ID, which is basically what we're raising the level of their work, and by doing that, we're putting this institution in one place that it should have been in a long time ago. We are essentially showing that we are thinking about all the users of this Fund and that we will essentially improve the work of this institution that will be shoulder to shoulder with everyone else developed in the world. In addition to these legal solutions, as regards property taxes from now on, tax returns will no longer have to be made by those who are carrying out their contracts with the notaries, let's say those who are subject to certain taxation and those who have a portion of the inheritance right to do their job with the notebooks, will not now have to go to the IRS themselves to register taxes, but will be able to fill out the tax application, making it easier, after all, for Serbian citizens to do their job outside the counter. Then, we have the next law relating to the change of base for the salary account. We have had the opportunity to hear that otherwise, the suspension of the freeze of wages has been phased from 2015 to today and that they are in place to represent the principle of fiscal sustainability. You heard yesterday, after all, the MPs, that the Commission will remain, but that the classical freezing that was before will be. When we talk about corporate income taxes, it should be said here that this corporate income tax is extended on the basis of those laws that we passed, and they refer to investment funds, open and alternative funds, so I think the state should expect higher revenues. When we talk about the Tax Act on the Use and Holding of Weapons and Carrying Weapons, it has been observed that so far there has been a tax payment and the Tax Administration, although it has had a large number of complaints it has not been able to respond positively that gun license holders had to pay an equally high rate, three times the tax rate on all the weapons they have, to every number of pieces, and therefore it simply came out to meet that only, after all, you can pay for one weapon at such a high rate, and everything else has to be paid at a lower rate, for holding. Those examples, and there are many, say families who inherit from their families, who, for example, have no opportunity to use, because they have no license, also paid high tax rates on so-called. Watered weapon. Then they didn't have a second chance but to simply return that weapon to the MUP and not have any trophy or property or memory. Now it's come out to meet to keep it in the possession of the family, but it's simply not subject to certain taxes. After all, we are talking about the introduction of a fee for media service, i.e. an increase in the tax so far of 220 dinars to 255 dinars. The current budget in total, I remember three, four years ago for, say, Serbia's state TV and Vojvodina was a total of four billion dinars, now three billion 150 million. Just because they will have higher incomes and based on this tax, and also because they will have to appear on the market in competition as well as all media houses, we think that this volume of funds should be reduced by the budget, because, ultimately, we think that there is a great competition in the media sphere, as you all have the opportunity to see here. I will end up, and those who want to threaten the president with their lives, to fight guns, and besides they really want to call for violence and assassination, want to see each other's Serbia, and therefore they want to actually raise their own ratings and make bigger revenues for their newspapers. In that competition, I think that state media houses should also actually appear on the market and show that they are really working in the interests of all Serbian citizens, because, you know, the fees are paid by all Serbian citizens. I think it is very important to say here today which way Serbia wants to go, whether it wants to go this way, or whether it wants to go through an increase in wages and pensions, the opening of new factories, as we had a chance to see yesterday, one of over two hundred numbers that opens up new jobs, or whether it wants to go through a path that will simply promote violence on the streets, teachers who call on people to chase down the streets and fight because some others would like to come to power and simply spend money for their own personal companies, not for Serbia to really make progress. In voting day, this whole set of laws will support the SNS with pleasure, just as it voted for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65036	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Once again I ask the question – does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65037	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the improvement of the legislation on pension and disability insurance, given that pensioners are one of those weak categories in society where they actually prove the real and essential quality of state and society. In that sense, I am pleased that we have an improvement in the capacity of this Fund. Since at this point 24% of this Fund is financed from the budget, unlike earlier years, when that percentage has crossed 50%, which is a good sign, but this society and the state will be on the green line when we actually come into a situation where the separation through insurance for the PIO Fund is actually an isolation for the future, and in fact the current spending on pensions is from the past, it seems utopian, but I believe it is possible if it continues with the theme and trend of development. I consider this tax relief very important and certainly that it is of great importance to focus on the strategic category in this regard or to consider what is the weak belly of society in the developmental respect, and to actually focus on it in terms of tax incentives. The painful point or the weak stomach of this society is the eviction of the population. At this point, it seems impossible to stop the negative migration movement. But let's look at some diameters in not so far past. One of the most dramatic examples is the Republic of Ireland, which in the 1970s was the country with the highest degree of negative migration movements. Now, after a difficult but very effective successful and quality struggle, the Republic of Ireland has become a country of immigration. If we look at what the system there has put emphasis on stopping and then turning the direction of migration in a positive sense we will see that it is a package of measures of developmental nature, but the accent is in the country. So where the negative migration is going, that's where the solution begins. The people first moved from mountainous, hilly, rural areas, and slowly went down into the plains, and then from the plains to the cities, and from the cities to the outside. So where the problem starts, by the nature of things, that's where the problem begins. That is why it is my reassuming suggestion to consider in the near future and seriously prepare a package of measures, primarily through tax reliefs, where we will provide villages above, say, 600 meters above sea level, so to villages with difficult living conditions, tax relief. If necessary and fully tax-free, we'll actually direct them to where the problem started. Of course, low-level villages should also be stimulated to a certain extent through tax relief. So our village is weak stomach and youth is part of the weak abdomen. It's the second part of the topic to put focus through tax relief measures for beginners in business, for young people, for young couples, which we talked about earlier, but we don't want to give up on this. I'm deliberately risking myself to repeat, simply, cause negative feelings, but these are things of strategic importance and they shouldn't be passed. That's why it's important to keep an eye on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65038	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65039	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me first refer to last night's RST daily at 7:30, which announced that the 2020 budget was adopted without a single vote against. I don't think that's true, and the public service shouldn't have informed him like that, no matter what there were only three votes against it. In the context of the Public Service, I have spoken several times to the Committee on Agriculture, and also here in the plenary session of the Assembly, that Serbia is probably the only country in the world where cattle, figuratively, pay TV subscription, because all the stables that have numbers, even if there are no cattle in them, have to pay for a TV subscription. All the counters that are located on the banners and serve as a power plant for the launch of a vegetable irrigation pump, orchards and other working surfaces, pay TV subscription for all 12 months and if these numbers are functional, practically, for a maximum period of four months during a vegetation period of the year. I cited examples of cooperatives from the “Vojko” Association in Tavankut, which has 21 acres of apples under irrigation systems, seven wells, seven irrigation pumps on seven bandits and pays seven times a TV subscription per year, plus for the barn, eight and plus for the house, nine. Also, in the previous period, I spoke to the Minister for Social Affairs twice, and yesterday, given that he started fasting yesterday, I stopped by the park across from the Assembly to visit veterans, war participants, who protest and seek reception. They had a conversation with the Resort Minister. They're not happy with that conversation. They requested admission from the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief. I think it is not good for the Republic of Serbia to have such tents in the park for months and to draw attention to a problem that could probably be solved with one reception and one constructive conversation, regardless of what the resolution minister told me yesterday that during the finalisation of the bill, most of these issues will be resolved and explained some issues that will probably not be resolved. I agree with previous debaters who have indicated that the new pension accounting system is good, which is a system, but it is not good what it is, because it is a re-attack on pensioners and they will be significantly damaged again on employees and on the economic position of other social economic categories. Finally, I should say that the 2020 budget, adopted yesterday, which the Minister of Agriculture claimed to be 5.5% of the total tax revenue, which was supported by the finance minister in the previous days, is absolutely incorrect. Even with these amendments, there are no 5%, there are no 56,605,000 thousand in total division 24, and I'm not just talking about the sum of positions for those positions that fall into incentives in agriculture and rural development. This was said in a certain way by individual members of the Committee on Agriculture from the President of the Municipality of Koceljev, whom I do not see here today, through Miletic, and even the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has indicated that this budget should be increased, and indeed, according to that first calculation, I did not deal with the amendment that was adopted, by 4.611.988,000 less than 5% of total tax revenues, the entire division is 24, and for 16 billion are less incentives in agriculture than 5%. Finally, to say the following, a meeting of Serbian national organisations from eight countries in the Serbian Matica in Novi Sad was held and that it was then revealed that there are about 1,600,000 of our citizens in the EU. I ask you to meet the upcoming elections how do you think they vote or don't want to vote? A million and 600,000 citizens are indeed a significant segment of the electoral body and should not be neglected and expected to only contribute to their resources when they are sent to Serbia, but to participate in another way, because they would practically take up a large number of seats as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65040	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65041	Ladies and gentlemen, in this part where we're going to get a little bit more into the details, I'd like to talk about just one part of the legal solutions accompanying the budget that was adopted yesterday at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The MP group of the Modern Serbian Party has always supported and will support anything related to the reduction of the tax burden and at all wise use of fiscal policy that encourages growth, innovation and all that is the engine of the development of a society. What is our concern that we have expressed many times, and we will bring it out and now is what and what instruments of fiscal policy we are using. So we're unusually happy that by 1% the impositions, exceeding 0.5 plus 0.5, and what they do every year. Also, we cannot say that it is bad that preferential fiscal treatment is given to those who create new jobs, to new jobs, as well as to some parts of fiscal policy that would concern the treatment of investment and all other things. Generally, that's quite all right, but we think there are better ways to stimulate economic development and that your way is where and where better. When you give subsidies, you cannot essentially help everyone, but is a subsidy measure that only helps the few. In this way, instead of the market and customers deciding which companies are best, which is a superior way of deciding for the simple reason when people in Serbia or anywhere in the world decide which companies are better, they vote in the wallet, the vote in the wallet is deprived of both ideologies and emotions, except in the domain of loyalty to the brand, but essentially people make very objective decisions who is good, who is bad and what they need when they meet with the certainty that the only voting machine is a wallet. From a country where money is voted on by companies that need to grow and develop, they are, as a rule, countries that have sustainable growth rates. I would make a lot of mistakes to my soul if I said that your subsidy programmes have not progressed in the years that have passed, in the sense that much better control, that it is done in the first years and later, that those who, as I say, dare to cheat, eventually get their contracts broken, have to pay back, that most civil servants are committed to it, and are not corrupt, but still the question remains when you have in one hand to offer something that is worth a lot, and the price of it is nothing, you will always have the incentive to draw the worst of those who need to defend that money. There is no cure in a country where 500 euros are paid. It doesn't exist. There will always be someone who wants to jump out, although unlike many who don't like to talk to ordinary people, regular ministry employees, I like to do it in moments and when I'm not in the most direct policy and I can see how they think, how committed they are to not being abused. But they'll always happen. Another thing is that people are encouraged to base businesses precisely on what incentives are given from the budget. In this way, probably, we send people somewhat wrong incentives, that is, artificially changing the economic structure, instead of saying again, deciding the market, which is blind to our preferences what needs to be developed, what doesn't need, what's better, what's worse. We're very often surprised at what's best. Even this IT sector, which we mention a lot, and he didn't give a shit just because we didn't care about him, but we let him develop in the way that people who run IT business are the best. So my fear is that we are thus creating a business structure, which may not be the most sustainable in the years to come, or that we are going to find some businesses that may not be necessary at all, and that on the other hand, we are going to see that there are some businesses that are good for the business that comes from the budget bypasses. On the other hand, I'm going to appeal once again to think carefully about the test of independence, how meaningful it is. The fact is, in many cases, work is being protected by the form of an agency, or the form of entrepreneurship, although it is not entrepreneurship. But people who have agencies pay taxes. They don't speak for social aid or for any budget or on the other hand, they're people who don't ask for anything. I'm afraid, if we literally apply these independences, that we will send many companies an incentive to set up agencies that will only be involved in bypassing the independence test, by artificially creating new suppliers to the company that are afraid to fail the independence test, that we may have as an unwanted outcome the opening up of companies that are only serving it and also, that we will have the opening of many companies outside of Serbia, especially in IT, which simply will bypass that whole test, instead of paying us something, will pay us nothing. They will leave, start companies in the United Kingdom, as foreign companies in Cyprus, Monaco, any country that is an offshore paradise and will easily bypass us. We think that we should weigh this well, and I'm afraid that the measure which, in its essence, hides the repression will essentially lead to us slaughtering not the ox, but to slaughter one pig just to eat a file, and to throw everything else away and to make what was good intention, in the end, turn into our own opposite, because what practice teaches us, whenever we have some measure of economic policy, very often we predict that those to whom that measure applies, will act as in their best interest, or try to bypass it, if they think it's unfair. What my position is, is that we create a business environment in Serbia, low taxes, a country that is a service of citizens, so that everyone wants to be here and pay taxes, because they know that every year it will get better and better, that legal certainty will grow and that Serbia will simply be a good place for long-term business decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65042	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65043	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we are talking about a set of draft laws that fully follow the 2020 Budget Law. Law proposals on the agenda today should contribute to the good situation in the state register and all that is well planned and balanced, so that Serbia continues to step forward through accelerated development. Through this set of laws, we are talking about tax reliefs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, which further simplifys the tax procedure and improves electronic communication between competent tax authorities and taxpayers. The suspension of the Act on the provisional regulation of the basis for the collection and payment of salaries, earnings and other permanent incomes, the reduction of fiscal burdens based on work, as well as for newly created taxpayers, provides for a greater exercise of social security rights, etc. The responsible conduct of fiscal policy in the previous period allowed the process of leaving the fiscal consolidation crisis measures to begin. Thus, conditions have been created for the adoption of new laws that will facilitate the functioning of the economy, primarily through tax policy. This should not be surprising when, first of all, we adopted a positive budget rebalance in early October, which increased salaries and pensions, as well as funds defined for capital investments. The 2020 budget itself is a developmental one and an even distribution of funds has been implemented aimed at increasing the standard of living of citizens. With this responsible policy, we have completed the process of consolidation of public finances and have announced the start of the National Investment Plan. The budget itself is stable and sustainable and it is no wonder that, thanks to responsible fiscal policy, this set of laws will contribute to the further development of the Republic of Serbia and ensure a safer future for our children. We want the citizens of Serbia to feel that they are living better within the shortest period of time, which is the goal achieved through the development of the economy, investment, job creation, and all in order to reduce unemployment. Just yesterday we heard from President Aleksandar Vukic that for the first time in Serbia's history unemployment fell below the two-digit number, and it is now 9.5%. Of course, getting to these results wasn't easy and thanks to President Alexander Vukic, we became an economic and political leader in the region, a factor in peace and stability, a country that enjoys prominence in the world. Just now that we are taking Serbia's state with huge steps forward, when we have made it economically, politically and militaryly strengthened, when we have made the National Investment Plan, we are recording enormous anxiety and schizophrenia in the part of the opposition, political idiots and political prostitutes Dragan Djilas, Boška Obradovica, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic and Nebojsa Zelenovica, who are ready for the sake of personal interest to destroy and sell Serbia, trying to come to power by seeking to provoke violence and riots in Serbia. It's certainly not foreign to them. And in 2000, they savaged and burned all over Belgrade, robbing everything that came into their hands and so came to power on the street. In 2001, they released more than 2,000 Shipatarian terrorists and criminals who later dealt with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. They did robbery privatisations. During their rule, we lost certain territories, primarily Montenegro, and then so on. Kosovo, which has declared independence. They introduced a border on Jarinj and Brnjak, a border between Serbs and Serbs. They destroyed the Serb village, the Serbian judiciary. In 2012, they brought Serbia to bankruptcy, and all the time they were unwittingly robbing the country, so in 2012, there was still money in the register for one salary and about half a pension. And they never had the courage, nor the brain, to solve problems in the state. They robbed her maximum, and the best example for that was Dragan Gilas of his 619m euros. The Serbian Progressive Party doesn't work that way. We solve all citizens' problems, step by step. We are building a successful and modern Serbia, Serbia where our children will live and all their wishes and dreams come true in it, in their Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65044	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65045	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, we adopted a significant legal act yesterday, the 2020 budget, adopted before the deadline and represents a turning point in our Serbian economy. Heavy and brave measures are behind us. The budget includes higher salaries, higher pensions, more money in health and education, greater and better living standards and stable economic development. Large investments, public road and railway infrastructure. In the last five years alone, more than 320km of highways have been built and such a policy will continue. The results we give Serbian citizens, the peace policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government are the response to the political pressures of those who want to bring her down, those who are calling for a boycott and who are pointing the gun at our president, into his family. In my presentation, I will abide by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. I believe that these changes and additions are necessary in order to continue further reforms of the pension and disability system and to ensure security, a more favourable material position of current and future pensioners. Namely, I will refer only to the most important members of this law, first of all, to those relating to the new way of harmonising pensions, the Swiss model, the introduction of an extramarital partner, as persons who can exercise the right to a family pension, but also to new categories of insurance who have the right to calculate the internship that counts with an increased duration. The reforms that started in 2014 and which have greatly helped and our oldest citizens have produced extremely positive effects. This is certainly reflected in the fact that Articles 23, 24 and 42 are included in the bill, which in one precise and certain way determines how pensions are coordinated. According to the proposed provisions, starting with a pension for January 2020, pensions are adjusted to a percentage representing half of the consumer price growth rate and half of the profit growth rate, and based on data from the authority responsible for the business of statistics on the movement of average earnings, without taxes and contributions of employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the trend of consumer prices for the previous 12 months, counting backwards, starting from June of the previous calendar year. This means that pensions, according to Finance Minister Sinisha Mali, will increase by about 5.4%, which will certainly mean our oldest citizens. I think the greatest importance of these provisions is that there is legal certainty about pension growth, which depends on economic developments in the country. They are extremely important members of the bill that for the first time introduces an extramarital partner into our pension system, as a person who can exercise the right to a family pension. Those provisions shall comply with the provisions of Article 62(5). The Constitution. In terms of equating the extramarital union with marriage, one is corrected, in my own opinion, by the injustice that persons who did not marry the deceased or the user concluded marriage, and for years they lived with them, aged or even had children in common, had no right to a family pension. The existence of an out-of-marriage community will be established in an out-of-party procedure, thus preventing possible abuses that may occur. I appeal to the funds of public information, the Republic Fund of PIO and all relevant authorities and organisations that when these provisions of the law are adopted to inform our citizens of the possibility that even an out-of-marriage partner can exercise the right to a family pension, because there are a lot of people who have remained deprived of their family pension for reasons why they have not concluded their marriage with the deceased. The proposed provisions introducing new categories of insurance who have the right to count the internships are also important, which are considered with increased duration, but allow them to exercise the right to an age or disability pension in the same way as authorised officials in the MUP or professional soldiers. The provisions set out certain categories of insurance companies are laid down by judges deployed to the Special Department and the Office for War Crimes of the Major Court in Belgrade and the Special Branch and the Department of War Crimes of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, the prosecutor for organised crime, deputy prosecutors for organised crime, war crimes prosecutors and deputy war crimes prosecutors. Doing these jobs is extremely difficult, difficult, and often dangerous, so it is a good thing that persons who do these jobs are determined by a well-fused job internship and allows them to retire early. This corrects the illogicality that existed in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, because if the MPs had and had an unfettered working experience and could retire early, why not have those same rights by prosecutors, judges from special departments working to detect and judge in the most difficult and complex cases related to war crimes and organised crime. Here are some of the most important proposed changes for which, I must point out, the funds are provided by the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, i.e. from a paid contribution to the PIO. I must mention that according to official data, the Republic Fund of PIO at the end of 2018, of the total revenues, as much as 71.7% are the original revenues charged from contributions of 51.1% in 2012. In 2018, the appropriations from the budget were 27.9% compared to 2012 at 48.2%. All these facts lead to the conclusion that pension payments are stable, based on a realistic basis, and that our oldest citizens don't have to worry. The good work of the Ministry of Labour and Management of the Republic Fund of PIO will certainly continue and pensions will increase from real incomes, as has been done with the payment of aid of 5,000 dinars, which is only the beginning of a continuous improvement in the position of our pensioners. In the day of voting, I will support all these amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, as well as all the laws of the financial set that are in front of us, I am giving full support to our government and the minister, who in these days is suffering the most difficult pressures, because only by work and knowledge can we defend against those who want to boycott, destroy and destroy everything that we create - the improvement of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65046	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Comrade Macura, just one piece of information, your MP group in this debate in principle has 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65047	I know and I feel like I'm in that drug commercial. I'll leave out that part with the esteemed, don't mind me. The modern Serbian party strongly opposes increasing the tax on public media services, both RTS and RTS. We think they don't fit the needs of citizens, they just don't do what they do in their job description. We think that, no matter what it is, a little increase and that maybe it won't put too much pressure on the citizens' budget, it's just not justified. With that in mind, then, we would like to ask Minister Malay's comment on this fee and the increase. Does he think this increase justifies the functioning of a public media service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65048	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65049	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the 2020 budget, we have before us a set of tax laws to encourage further employment, so that the fiscal space that we have created, used and used for the further employment of all our citizens. In this sense, we're talking about two kinds of incentives. First of all, we are talking about reducing the burden on earnings, in order to continuously, year by year, ensure the implementation of this measure that we have designed to encourage the development of the economy. I remind you that when we adopted the 2019 budget, we actually adopted a Decision on reducing the burden on earnings from 63% to 62%. This 1% is actually 13 billion dinars. These funds are designed not to violate the financial stability of the budget, but also to stimulate the employer to either get a new job or to raise salaries or invest in new technologies as well as the employers themselves. The elimination of part of the contribution for PIO on the employer's half-percent burden is foreseen and this measure represents new reliefs for employers to further motivate them on new employment. The proposal is also an increase in the non-taxable profit in the Law on Income Tax from 15.300 to 16.300, which will help reduce the profit burden from 62% to 61% during 2020. That's exactly the continuity we're talking about. The second part of the incentive refers to a reduction in contributions and a reduction in taxes for all employees over the next three years -- in 2020 of 100%, during 2021, 95%, and in 2022, of 85%. Taxes are also reduced by newly-inhabited persons and by those employers who decide to employ highly qualified labour. So, for the first time, we are taking concrete measures to make it even more decisive to reduce unemployment and what is very important, we now have space in the budget, we have financial conditions for this measure, but there is also political will and there is a plan and a programme to help the economy. Since 2012, I remind you, we have opened 700,000 new jobs, 700 thousand people have been given the opportunity to work and to support their families from their work. This is an extraordinary result, but it is certain that we will not stop here and continue to fight perfectly for new jobs and to reduce unemployment. The laws before us also bring more effective work of the tax administration, simpler communication, release from payment of credentials fees issued and submitted by electronic means. All of these measures were designed to, on the one hand, encourage this employment and, on the other hand, to bring a simplified procedure to public notebooks, data exchange and ultimately, a faster and more efficient process. When it comes to the Law on the termination of the arrangements for the payment of earnings, I remind you that during 2014, we were forced to enter fiscal reforms and that the most important task was to preserve financial stability and put the public debt under control, since pensions and salaries are the largest part of the expenditure. The conditions for economic recovery and sustainable development have been created. Today, we are proud to say that we are coming out of these fiscal reforms and that we are in a situation to raise wages in the public sector and that we are doing it three years back continuously. We, I recall, recently made a decision to raise salaries in the public sector of between 8% and 15%, in the highest amount of nurses, technicians, and doctors, but also in other portfolios. The government of the Republic of Serbia headed by the SNS is indeed responsible for citizens, but also for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we have managed to implement the difficult reforms and unpopular measures during these years, which we are forced to implement, maintain low inflation, implement reforms, but also to facilitate business and create an investment environment for both domestic and foreign investors. We are proud that we have managed to maintain this dynamic of attracting investment, which is witnessed by reports from international institutions in which Serbia is characterized as a country that is a leader and that is ahead in attracting foreign direct investment, and I remind you that during the previous year we have attracted two billion and 300 million direct foreign investment, which we are extremely proud of. A stable exchange rate, stable inflation created conditions for an external trade exchange that grew from year to year, is 70% this year. We're working together at this point both east and west. We changed the image of Serbia, we changed our reputation, we raised the reputation Serbia enjoys today in the world, and we changed our country's perspective. This also allowed unemployment to drop, but also to improve the quality of life for all of our citizens. When it comes to the subject of pensions, from 1 January 2020, pensions will be calculated according to the Swiss model, i.e. they will be harmonised according to the Swiss formula, which means that they will be harmonised against the rate of inflation and the rate of salary growth, which is one healthy and sustainable model, which will, of course, be guaranteed and regular and the level of payment of these pensions and every year we can say, is less money from the budget, and I remind myself that 59% of pensions are paid out of 2012 from the budget. This year we set out 26% of the budget, which is an indication that we have recovered the pension fund that has been devastationed, but that we have improved this ratio of the number of insurance and pensioners and that the pension system is now healthy and sustainable. Pensioners can expect an increase of 5.4% during 2020, but not only that, but also one-off payments when financial conditions are created for it, and I remind you that at the beginning of this month, all pensioners received payments of 5,000 dinars. So it is clear that the result has been achieved by opening numerous factories across Serbia, by opening up a large number of new jobs, by hiring our people and during 2020, we also through the National Investment Plan can expect a number of new investments and our results will guarantee that we will also work at the same pace and at the same time at the same time trying to raise the quality of life of all our citizens. More investment, a better standard for our citizens, but of course everything is based on real foundations and sustainable so that there is no breach of this financial progress, this stability that we have achieved, for which Alexander Vukic and SNS are struggled daily, and that the citizens have certainly recognised by rewarding us with their trust in all elections and made it clear that SNS policy and politics of Aleksandar Vukic has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65050	I'd like to thank my colleague Turk. The word is made by MP Milena Corilić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65051	The Honorable Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO contains several important changes that represent significant progress in further reform of the pension system. The PIO reform was necessary to create the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system. The pension must not be a social, but an economic category. Amendments to the Law on PIO are now, and earlier, the result of a multi-annual economic movement and implementation decisive but unpopular, difficult measures, especially in the field of fiscal and monetary policy. This condition has provided that the PIO system has been in a state in which it is impossible to provide legal certainty and satisfying the social position of current and future PIO rights users. Due to the operation of various unfavourable economic and demographic movements in order to keep the system from collapsing and bankruptcy, certain measures have been taken to move forward with gradual stabilisation and continued strengthening of the system. The aim was to improve the position of PIO users. Reform measures have been taken since raising the retirement age, strengthening the conditions for going to disability and gaining family pension rights and harmonising pension growth towards economic opportunities. Pensioners as beneficiaries of the right supported the pension system's said measures. We can rightly say that we made a significant contribution when we started leaving the fiscal crisis that our country was in in 2014. That is what could have been expected of the oldest of us to build and build this land. That's where it was normal for us to realize that we should make an effort to improve and make progress in this country. Pensions were reduced by 0.22 and 22%, respectively, and 0.25%, respectively, and that burden was borne by about 700,000 pensioners from over a million and 700 thousand pensioners. Of course, among the proposed amendments and additions to this proposal, the law is the most important one contained in Article 23 relating to the obligation to comply with the amount of pension according to so-called pension. Swiss formula. Such a proposed legislative solution to the applicable provisions of the law represents a significant change which should be significantly more favourable from now on to the applicable provisions of the law. Namely, the new proposal allows pensions to be brought into line with the trend in average earnings and consumer prices. Given that pensions are an economic category, not a social one, it means they have to be the source of decent age life. We believe this solution is far more just for the pensioners of the present and future. A party of united pensioners of Serbia as one of its main messages to be managed in its operation has always stressed that pension coordination is linked to the growth of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Using the so-called so-called Swiss formulas expect pensions to grow more than 5% a year, which should lead to a real rise in the personal standard and quality of life of PIO users. I deeply believe that the government will take care of over a million and 700 thousand pensioners, old people, and will not allow the pensioner's position to be compromised if there are any unfavourable movements in the application of the Swiss formula in pension coordination. I have to remind you that in the PIO system we had a pension adjustment, I'm stressing in some Swiss formula. After 2000, pensions fell rapidly after that formula. The forecast of such a movement was that in 2010, the average pension from the average salary would be only 29%, which led us to form a United Pensioners' Party of Serbia in 2005. In addition to this key change, the proposed law also contains several more important changes relating above all to the expansion of the rights of potential users in members who regulate the right to family pension. It is predicted that this right will be able to be realized by the outside partners of the deceased insurance carrier. This solution is explained by the need to comply with the constitutional provision on equalising marriages and non-marriage communities. Of course, this kind of equation in this domain was necessary in view of the fact that the extramarital communities are long ago our reality that has been recognized in other legal areas as well. On the other hand, however, it must be borne in mind that such solutions can go to the hands of unconscious individuals. Because of the abuse of the right to a family pension so far, they have not even overcome more difficult solutions, moral and legal provisions through the conclusion of fictitious, even zero marriages. They will not be prevented by a new stricter requirement that sets three conditions instead of two years of living together. Therefore, the judicial authorities would have to pay more attention in the future and ask for firmer evidence when requests relating to cases related to the exercise of the right to family pension appear in the out-of-party procedure. Article 7 provides for an extension of the definition of disability and for cases where a police officer loses full working capacity for professional police work. Also, Article 15 extends the circle of insurance companies with an increase in the duration of both judges and prosecutors acting in organised crime and war crimes cases. I consider the provisions provided for in Articles 7 and 15 justified in view of the nature of their work and their number of insurance companies. In the end, you'll allow me just to step out of the matter of which the proposed changes and complements are dealt with and to address an important problem that is related to the work of the Republic Fund PIO. I'm familiar with the nature of the business, relating to the establishment of rights in this area, it's a complex and difficult job, which requires a lot of time and dedication for every particular case. Given the number of items I have to draw attention to that the existing number of employees in the branches of the Republic Fund is small. The reason is to retire and ban new employment so that there is a level that can endanger even more quality work of employees in this fund. Therefore, it would be good for the Government to approve, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, the employment of the personnel they carry, I would say, the production, i.e. of professional associates on the decision-making, the establishment of internships in the home service and the payment of pensions as a basic activity of the Fund. The PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day, as well as other laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65052	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65053	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we adopted the 2020 budget, and today we are discussing the accompanying laws that regulate the normal functioning and financing of all segments of our society for next year. The SDPS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws on the agenda, as we believe that there is a good intention to identify concerns for the social and material position of workers, as well as for all other citizens of Serbia. In my presentation, I will only show the basic and most important aspects of individual laws, because I think that indeed all the proposals are such that they only bring positive changes and I hope that we will continue to work at this pace in the future. The most significant change in the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance refers to a reduction in the contribution for PIO by 0.5% and this sum may seem insignificant to someone, but in practice it is not what is most important, it is about the intention and the desire to disburse, i.e. to continue with the dispensation of the economy, i.e. employers. This reduces employers' giving and provides more money for new investments and for new jobs. I hope that in the future we will continue with this practice and that in this way we will further strengthen the private sector, and it would not be a bad idea to consider reducing parafiscal burdens in the future. In addition to these changes and additions to the existing law, there is also a whole set of measures that must be considered as a relief and convenience for hiring new persons, but also for newly founded companies, especially those engaged in innovation technology. One of the amendments and additions to the PIO law refers to a clearer and better definition of voluntary pension funds. They should be equal with state funds in the coming period, but should also be an alternative in terms of a broader spectrum offered to future pensioners. However, the most important and significant change relates to a model for harmonising pensions from 1 January 2020, and I think this pattern, which takes into account consumer prices and wages growth in the previous year. That way we send the pensioners a message that they can count on safety and predictability. The amendments and additions to this law are better regulated among other things and the rights of partners in outside marriage communities, as well as the right to a family pension, and we agree on that group of European countries that think in a modern way and which have arranged systems. The country's economic development and the increase in the number of employees are most important for the long-term stabilisation of the pension system. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax implies a significant increase in the amount of prescribed aid, fees and rewards. Secondly, which is particularly important for our businessmen and employers, it is that the non-taxable amount is increasing by 6.54% and I hope that we will continue with this trend, that we will increase this non-taxable part in line, of course, with economic growth, in line with financial opportunities, and again in the framework of preserving budgetary stability in the long term. Article 5 of these amendments states a reduction in the tax base by 70% for the newly-inhabited taxpayer. Also projected is the right to tax cuts in a qualified unemployed person over the next three years. For taxpayers, so-called pausers, these changes provide for a full set of positive changes, especially in the scope of the tax administration. Faster determination of tax obligations for economic operators is of the utmost importance. So far, it has been the case that only after a certain time, after a few months, businessmen are given final tax solutions that they need to pay, and then they get a 15-day deadline to settle their debts. Now it won't be like that, businessmen will be able to have final solutions in half of January. It's certainly an excellent move and, I would say, an excellent solution for both businessmen and the tax administration. For us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is particularly important that this amendment of the law shows a confirmation of good intentions and concerns for the standard of students and students, as it increases the untaxable part of student scholarships, i.e. student loans from 11.741 dinars to 30,000 dinars, and that is some standard that is actually applied in developed European countries, and I hope that this measure will stimulate our businessmen to invest more in education. On the agenda there is one, I can say, unpopular proposal, but certainly necessary. It refers to an increase in public service fees from 220 to 255 dinars. We need to be aware that the allocation of public service funding is necessary, that it is an investment for the future. We are witnessing that commercial television broadcasts often unsuitable content. It's not just practice with us, it's practice everywhere in the world, and that's exactly why we need to strengthen and improve the work of public service. What we need to discuss, I don't think we should discuss taxis, it's definitely necessary, but we need to discuss the quality of public service, the quality of RTS and RTS. The main task of each public service is to promote the equality and equality of all citizens, to broadcast a programme of certain cultural and artistic content, to broadcast documentary emissions, a programme for disabled persons, a programme for our youngest citizens, a quality program for children, an educational programme and not to list further. These are all some programs that are not attractive to advertisers, and we need to be aware of that, but they are, in fact, those programs that we need to support, and they are very important for promoting some healthy social values. Simply, commercial television is governed by market laws and managed by profit, and this is one way to invest, in a field of this kind of culture, by empowering public service. So we need to understand that the quality of the programme and its availability are key factors that justify the financing of the public service. By the way, this tax is among the lowest in Europe, I think only Albania has a lower public service fee. I'm not going to say what the figures are for developed European countries, but I'm going to say from the environment, I think five times more public service fees are paid in Croatia. So if we want a quality public service, then we must invest in it, and such a public service must play one role, a fundamental role, which is to meet the needs of all Serbian citizens. Finally, to sum up the 2020 budget, as well as these accompanying laws are the best thing, it is my assessment, which the government has at this time been able to offer to the citizens of Serbia according to financial opportunities. All of these laws, in addition to the political stability we have, contributes to creating a stable legal system that will turn our market into an attractive market for further investment and that will actually create preconditions for further economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65054	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65055	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the proposed laws, this set of financial laws, namely the proposed laws, the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the parliamentary group has been expressed by the authorised representative of our group, Dejan Radenkovic, and I would not like to repeat it. I just want to confirm that, to join from one specific angle to give a few more reasons to support the proposed financial laws. The 2020 budget, which was adopted yesterday, which received general support, not only in the Assembly, I can speak freely in the general public and in the professional public, is simply a document where the Serbian government's policy is clearly determined in the coming year with figures. The proposed laws, those on the agenda today, are actually support, tools, as I would say, to meet that budget. To remind me of key things when it comes to the budget. The government remained focused on improving the economic environment and ensuring high economic growth rates with the ultimate goal of reducing unemployment and raising the population's living standards. To remind three characteristics, the basic ones, which could be when it comes to the budget, which is the distribution of the fiscal space that we have, to increase living standards, to increase public investment and tax redistribution of labour. I want to point out that all three or all three, have one common word -- they stimulate growth, each in their own way. That word or those words – it promotes growth is also a guideline in the proposed laws. The government's strategic goal is to reduce unemployment and increase the employment rate. So one of the government's most important goals is to hire Serbia. I'm taking the opportunity, given yesterday's data, to congratulate my government since the unemployment rate fell to a single-digit rate, below 10%. When these questions, when it comes to them, support is actually proposed by these laws that are on the agenda today. I'll only be a short while for three, very short. When it comes to the Tax Act that the income of citizens. It is precisely in order to encourage employment, by introducing new reliefs for employers, that an untaxable amount has been increased to 16.300 from 15.300. The improvement of the pausal taxation system is foreseen, the introduction of new reliefs for employers who carry out innovation activities. On the basis of the earnings, the introduction of reliefs for employers who establish a working relationship with a qualified new employee. With them employers will be freed from losses to profits and from contributing to PIO as one law in the package says so again. Next year 70, next 65, and 2022 to 60%. It is exactly the same when it comes to contributions to PIO, with these releases being bigger, first in 1995, second in 1990 and third in 1985. What I want to point out, which I think is good when it comes to newly employed workers, is that they have to have a closed labour contract in accordance with the Labour Act and be declared for contributions to mandatory social security. It's actually formal employment, not just employment. It's exactly the same story when it comes to the Pension and Disability Insurance Contribution Act, with only adding that the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance has been reduced from 26% to 25.5%. So, these few data that I've presented talk about decommissioning work, employers are getting more space for greater development, for greater growth, for new employment, and the money that will be less in the budget for it will be provided by making new employment through higher taxes and contributing again to the budget. Just for a little while, when it comes to the Law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. What is most important, too, is that one of the characteristics of next year's budget, which is investment in increasing living standards. Why does it matter? Because that's actually how broad consumption increases. When it increases, it contributes to growth. So again, the word “growing ” is present and significant. What is most important in this law is that pensions are scheduled to be coordinated with 50% based on profit increases and 50% based on cost increases. It is expected to be around 5.4% and above as early as January 1st. I just want to take a brief look at this, simply to point out that this is an important question for the simple reason that for years back all measures in the pension system were restrictive. The most restrictive was it in 2014, but it was necessary, it was justified. And she, among other things, made it possible to continue through the growth of pensions in line with economic opportunities, to take effective control measures and to collect contributions to pension and disability insurance, and in this even period the Government, whenever it had any opportunities, reacted immediately and enabled, as much as it could at that time, to increase these pensions. All these measures have yielded results. You can notice that the growth of the deficit has been halted, when it comes to the PIO Fund, that the participation of the budget in the total funds of the PIO Fund has been reduced to about 23%, therefore, by slightly more than 40 percent. This law of course improves the economic situation. He's a clear and predictable way of harmonising pensions. It's good to grow pensions to a certain extent, related to growth in earnings. It is good to increase the real values of pensions, and thus the standard. Thus, there is also a stable pension growth, noting, stable pension growth, real pension users growth, while a slight decline in pensions in GDP. In addition to the measures taken, however, the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the pension and disability insurance system lies in the country's development, new investment and new employment. And all measures, including these today, are not the goal in themselves, they are just the means, the way, the way to reach the main goal, to establish a basis for improved economic environment, to increase foreign and domestic investment fully equal, and that means new employment, stable and sustainable growth, a strong economy. So when we have a lot of moneymakers, then we'll fight easier for what we need to spend it all on. It's the only way to reach the ultimate goal, and that's a better life and a better standard for citizens, of course, and pensioners. The Serbian government, my government, is on a clear, safe and determined path to achieve it and I am giving it full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65056	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65057	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, you have heard that MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support these laws concerning the harmonisation of our tax obligations and social contributions according to what was voted in the budget. What I will focus on is this special fee of temporary fees for Serbia's Radio-Television, or Public Service. Of course, this is the obligation of all citizens, however, and the rights of every citizen who invests in the Public Service and thus becomes part of the overall system which thus finance the development of a public information service. Of course, what we may have witnessed in recent months, and all this time, is that perhaps the only political consensus and position and opposition in that the current editorial policy at the Public Service is not what it should be, is not what it would be like for the real picture of the Republic of Serbia and for all citizens to be a service. We believe that there are both objective and unobstructed interpretations, but certainly the biggest problem may be the self-will of editors of individual formats who invite guests who suit them, avoid guests who do not respond and thus create that wrong image. However, when I spoke about those rights of citizens investing in Serbia's Radio-Television, I meant that everything that represents the Republic of Serbia should be represented, and the Republic of Serbia represents the majority people and minority peoples. So over 30% of the minorities whose voice or visibility on RTS is almost impossible to see. We have, unfortunately, only one show, it seems to me, which treats minorities, that's the "Citizen" show, and everything else is somehow invisible, spontaneous and very often reflects neither culture, nor tradition, nor a real picture of those 30% of the total citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not to mention this unconstitutional relationship between RTS and the RTS Council in order to try to form an editorial in the Bosnian language, where she disobeyed the Constitution, the laws and respected some opinions that are both against the constitution and against the law. This is not a good message for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not primarily a good message for members of minority communities and peoples, and we believe that in this kind of reformist sense we should work on it, because this subscription for RTS is paid equally by all citizens of this country and as such they gain the right and to be presented in the best possible form. Also, what is visible, let's say, especially for those of us who do not come from centres such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, is a much smaller representation of regions and cities and municipalities that are borderline, which are outside these central parts of the Republic in daily programmes, in daily shows and simply without some continuity of presenting their particularly cultural, educational events which there is a lot of. For example, we've been in the past 15 days at least one 30 different events in the Sandzak region. This was not presented for a single second on RTS, and it concerned cultures, promotions of literature, art, writing, etc. I speak here from the perspective of the Bosniaks, because I belong to that national community, but I know that very often neither culture nor those manifestations that, in a similar way, are organised by other national communities. If we are paying RTS subscription like all other citizens, I guess it should be at least 30% of how much we share in the total payment of that subscription, to be content related to the representation of culture, tradition and all that the national communities do. I think that this would also contribute to a better understanding among the peoples of this country, tolerance and, ultimately, to make it a real, real, essential picture of the Republic of Serbia as a country of multicultural, multi-ethnic, multinational and where we would develop empathy for each other in future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65058	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65059	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. In a few minutes, I will refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods that are on the agenda today, namely several members, i.e. provisions concerning both vehicles, i.e. newspapers and tax policies when it comes to certain vehicles, but also weapons and ammunition. The Act, in Article 5 of the applicable law, proposes to extend tax exemptions to vehicles of which one of the power plants is electric or for hybrid-powered vehicles known as hybrid vehicles. This, of course, aims to encourage the improvement of standards in the environment. Vehicles whose vehicle is one of the electric or hybrid vehicles have a significantly higher market value than vehicles using another drive and it is clear that they are mostly purchased by natural persons whose purchasing power is extremely high. I believe that this measure should stimulate primarily economic operators, especially those registered for the activity of transport, i.e. the transport of passengers or goods and the purchase of these vehicles, as well as those companies, or companies that have a large fleet. This change was the motive for the proposal that my colleague Dejan Radenkovic and I submitted through the amendment. In addition to this, we have proposed another category of vehicle that could be covered by this tax policy, which are vehicles of historical importance, i.e. old timers. By supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the roads last year, we defined the status for the first time, introduced the term vehicle of historical importance, and thus for the first time defined the existence of these vehicles. The exact number of these vehicles in Serbia is unknown, because, as I said today, these vehicles have not had their status, so neither identification nor registration nor records of these vehicles have been legally defined. These vehicles don't usually drive. Most often we can see them at fairs or exhibitions, sometimes on the street, very rarely. We don't think it's economically justified that these vehicles are registered exactly under existing regulations. This is not the only reason, there are several reasons why we think that the registration of these vehicles, or tax relief in relation to registration, is important and we will discuss this in detail. Several important changes and additions to this law, as I said, concern provisions governing tax policy regarding arms and ammunition. I would like to commend one of the most important, for those who possess weapons, especially those persons who have a license to hold and carry weapons. In view of the fact that the gun-carrying machine is not issued for a particular piece of weapon but is issued to a specific person, who can, of course, carry only one piece of weapon, but cannot be defined which, it is proposed that these persons are paid for the first piece of arms in the amount prescribed for carrying, and for all other pieces of weapons that have paid a fee, i.e. the arms-holding tax. This is important because so far, gun owners who have a license to carry paid taxes for every piece of weapons they own, and that was collectively much higher cost for citizens, and thus illogical. Of course, we will vote in favour of this proposal and support this proposal, as well as other provisions concerning arms and arms, as well as the suspension of taxes, i.e. taxes on vessels registered by the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, in order for my colleagues to have time to speak, I would like to refer to the discussion, thank you, colleague Sarovic, for his support, my distinguished colleague Branimir Jovanovic, but also the previous speaker, when it comes to public service fees. In fact, a public service fee is paid everywhere, but the determination of this fee is actually a methodology of charge different. TV is not paid, especially in today's era, when media houses use different means of communication, not the transmission of the programme is paid, but rather the financing of the production and availability of this programme. I would take advantage of the opportunity to point out, as a positive, when it comes to public services, support for documentary emissions, which in previous years, can be freely said, more space in the overall content. Investment in the serial program is something that is visible to citizens. I would like to commend, of course, the RTS Digital Channel, which is primarily intended for culture and education, but also for the RTS Planet platform, which is certainly necessary, in line with world trends, but this is something that we still need to do media public service on, I mean, improving this platform. In times of different forms of reality programs, I think public services can make one step, design perhaps some scientific program that will give a different answer, make this program more attractive and make the content certainly educational. He thinks that this world trend should also be exploited and that one of the public service channels can be designed to promote science and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65060	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65061	Thank you, Chairman. I love it when we talk seriously about Public Service. I will, of course, speak very briefly about it in the rest of the time of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. My esteemed colleagues who spoke before me, Branimir Jovanovic, from my parliamentary group and just a colleague of Stefan Miladanovic, have very much seen what is the role of the Public Service. I would like to and I keep saying that every time we talk about public service, because the survival of public service is an extremely important topic and the financing of public service is an investment in the future. It needs to be stable and sustainable. There is no public service without independence from politics. What public services are broadcasting must be verified and credible, and the programme must be open, responsible and innovative. This is what the public service obliges us to do, and the law that this Assembly adopted in 2014. Public service everywhere in the world is the backbone of public information and it is in all countries of the world, so is ours. And when we talk about funding, we need to be aware that public service is pulling society forward. Public service when we strengthen it, it gets that strength and power, and in a cultural and valuable sense brings society forward, not to mud and hopelessness. It is therefore very important that the Government, of course mandatory under the law, ensure stable and sustainable financing of RTS. The increase in subscriptions, while reducing public service subsidies, is precisely showing one seriousness of the state. 16/1 VS/MT 12.40 – 12.50 With this increase in the subscription, the public service will be financed with more than 60% of the subscription, i.e. from citizens' income, 15% will be state subsidies, which is good to go towards the fact that one day the public service will be fully financed from the fee and the subscription, and about 21% will achieve income and from marketing. When we talk in this House, but also in public about the role of public media service, the story usually comes down to content, to the presence of politicians on certain political shows, for a minute, etc. People's MPs have the opportunity to present their work in the daily work in direct transmission to the Second Programme, which provides public service. It is important that we understand that public service is not just an information program. The role of the public service is to inform, educate and entertain in that order and, of course, quality. How serious public service will depend on the future of our society and one country. So, in order for the public service to be more serious, we need to be more serious every time we talk about it. I believe that the proposal is excellent, 255 dinars of subscription will, with state subsidies, therefore, be willing to ensure stable and sustainable financing of public service, be sufficient for the public service to operate at full capacity. I'm going to remind us all of a fact that money doesn't necessarily provide independence. The independence of the public service provides a good Law on Public Services, which we brought in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65062	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65063	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, we are all under the impression of making one of the most important decisions, which is the Budget Act that we made yesterday. Every budget in this term was getting better and better, this one is the best. I hope these are the foundations for even better and better-quality budgets that guarantee better functioning of this country and investment in this country. Dear Mr. Sinisha Mali, those who have attacked you and challenged your knowledge these days cannot dispute your knowledge that you have proven in all the places where you have been, in all the jobs you have done so far, and before, at the office of the mayor of Belgrade and now as Minister of Finance. Your result, the result, first of all, of Alexander Vukic and his team is the fact that we built highways, that we built schools, hospitals, completely changed this country and took it one quick step forward. To slow us down, you can't as a man who's emotional about not thinking about it, and when it's burdening you, then you can't work, you can't give results. That's their goal, to get the clips into the wheels and to distract and challenge our work. The president has promised new investments and is certainly the foundation of these new investments and this is a longer period. What matters is that he has promised what has not been said so far, the sewers and the plumbing in all the settlements. It is crucial that we build better conditions, conditions as in the city, and then those wastewaters had nowhere to go, creating septic pits that pollute wells. It's a big venture, but I believe that the president, along with you, will realize what he has promised, because so far he has achieved everything he has promised. This year, on 9 March, Podunavski County visited and what interests me is the municipality of Smederevska Palanka, from which I come. Everything he has promised has been done and much more done. People in the village of Cerovac, Kusadak, are completely surprised because the entire villages are paved. In the town of Kusadak, which once had a desire to join Belgrade, they say -- we don't know what hit us. Twelve-and-a-half miles of a new road in one breath. A path that connects two regional roads. Large investments have been made in the Smederjevska Palanca. The debt of the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka, which was spoken of here in a negative context, was halved. In these conditions, much has been done, much is invested. I hope that the investor who visits Smederevska Palanka these days will come, that we will create new jobs. Once again, the unemployment below 10% and the average salary above 500 euros are our results with kilometers of highways and the infrastructure we have built and which we will build in the future. The laws supporting the budget and considering its income side, our esteemed Aleksandra Tomic, spoke and there is nothing to add. I'd just say it's a significant tax charge. What's very important, which may seem insignificant to someone, to me, because I live with these people and I know, is that there's no property tax on auxiliary facilities, especially auxiliary facilities in villages, what people have, what they need to function, as they say, dry space. There's a lot of investment in the village. I hope they keep the brides from leaving him. I know a lot of people who don't want to leave this country and I think our rapid development and recovery of this country and the new investment cycle will bring back those who are already somewhere in the West. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65064	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65065	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Dear Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, a few days ago, we adopted a budget here for the next year that we assessed positive, realistic, but also developmental. The most important assessment during the debate was that it opens up the possibility of further economic development as an important basis for stability and social progress. The evaluations given at the time are currently opening up great opportunities, as announced that certain changes in the business and business offices and precisely the draft laws that we have in this debate are going in this direction, i.e. they are in fact instruments that allow the planned use of the budget and its distribution. The proposed changes and changes aim, in any case, to improve the position of employers and many eases in their business, to create a better position in the labour market, both employees and owners of capital, to facilitate pay and profit pay, which is a better position in achieving tax policy and, in any case, to support such a single orientation and measures. This means that, on the basis of the very good economic results achieved and the better business achieved, the state has set out towards the legal arrangement of the necessary changes both in the world of work and in the capital world. I support the intention and objectives of a long-term policy that will ensure the employment of young, professional, new staff, the opening of new and innovative enterprises, the development and application of new technologies in them, so that in the labour market in the future and in the way of business we would not lose the battle. The truth is, I don't quite understand this newly-inhabited person who's only named himself as a person who's gone professionally from the state, so he's coming back here under the conditions of both possible and better economic conditions, so I think it should be better explained in some future or other sublegal act. What I particularly want to comment on is a bill on proposed amendments and amendments to pension and disability insurance. It is good that there are real opportunities for increasing pensions and for their balanced alignment in the Swiss formula, as we have already said and the use of one and other models that provide and create this system in order. The introduction of this real budget and its planning create conditions for its long-term economic sustainability and legal certainty and the proper social position of current and future pensioners. With long-term investment in the mandatory PIO Fund, employees, it is true, expected from all previous years that these funds are their guaranteed personal funds for life in the third age and social security at age. However, in the modern conditions of increasingly liberal capitalism, the conditions of the economic collapse that we have seen seem to be in the previous period, the poor transition model that has been applied and, unfortunately, destroyed the factories, fired the workers, on the other hand overnight on that capital created hugely rich tycoons, we have seen that nothing until the end is protected, nor earned pensions. This has also created the fear and dissatisfaction of pensioners and their families, creating mistrust in this Fund and the question of its sustainability and security. That is why I now believe that a good projection of the sustainability and security of this Fund should be created. Then the question that we can ask is, can we only from the economic resources built in previous years from the funds of this Fund, such as roads, spas, etc., can we do the appropriate application of economic measures, its systematic recapitalisation, and not just from the state budget? We have seen what kind of sensitivity this budget can have and in the future there will also be views of population policy, i.e. population results, becoming more sustainable and, in this sense, I believe that it is already long-term to think and apply adequate measures, which are not strictly based on the budget. On this principle, private pension funds are based in the world that are stable and have never failed during World War I or World War II or devalued. I think it's an important foundation to think about, even when it comes to our state resources. We want the development of this other private insurance fund, and with us, its development is possible through the development of the economy, the increase in wages and all these measures and the way the current government is headed. I will also briefly mention the third pension fund of corporate insurance with a possible proposal not only to apply large companies that are economically strong, but also to commit in the future development of the economy and economic growth of all companies of a certain level of capital to have at least a monthly payment of 500 dinars, or 1000 dinars, per worker, because in 20 years it is a large capital that these companies provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65066	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65067	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, the bill on amendments and additions to the property tax laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS are working to reduce the administration in the process of adopting a tax application, and in the case of an heir to inheritance or a gift and a tax on the transfer of absolute rights. In this case, the public register which carried out the verification procedure and which made up and confirmed the correctness of the transfer of the right to the immutability of the taxpayer of the tax application shall submit a tax application on that basis. Data relating to the transport of immovableity, the public notary shall be supplied to the Republic authority responsible for catastra’s operations via E – a tent which shall be subject to the obligation prescribed by the law of registration in the Catastar of immovableity, and the Katastar shall forward them to the Tax Administration and to the local self-government unit to determine the tax. This Law suggests that the tax application is not lodged when the procedure is in place in relation to the exercise of the right to inheritance or gift whether it is immovable or movable property, and when the procedure is adopted by a public notary. These provisions of the law should allow for the initiation of a tax procedure with less administrative procedures and costs resulting from this procedure, but also savings in time after the introduction of digitisation in the tax procedure and after enrolment in the Catastar of immovableity. This also removes the possibility of an error when submitting tax returns and submitting data to Katastar immovableity, particularly personal data on the rightholder whose incorrect registration in the database or incomplete data rights holders can create further procedures for citizens of major problems. We also know that the mistakes that occur in the incorrect entry of data on the owner, especially those entitled to real estate in Katastra, often know that they create problems in terms of demanding corrections made with the need for proof, but also in time as well as financial costs for proving errors in the process of enrolment of property rights. The public register, which is a professional person, will reduce the appearance of such errors and reduce it to a minimum and speed up the process of obtaining a tax solution, thus reducing administration. I would particularly like to refer to the proposal for a law relating to Article 4 relating to the closer and more precise definition of objects in the composition of agricultural land and buildings on agricultural land used for primary agricultural production. The law so far has not been absolutely clear as to the indication that these facilities are exempt from paying tax on property. Article 4 of this Act states that these are: accommodation facilities for machinery, for agriculture, accommodation facilities for repromaterials, accommodation and storage of finished agricultural products, livestock breeding stops and breeding facilities and the production of autotonic breakdowns of domestic animals, as well as facilities for the cultivation of snails, fish and mushrooms. This provision clearly defines which facilities, which are not subject to payment of the property tax, and also assists the Serbian farmer to make it easier to carry out production that is very important for the development of the Republic of Serbia, given that Serbian agriculture participates with 7% of the total GDP. In view of the fact that the proposed amendments and additions to the laws that are now before the MPs contribute more effectively to the work of the Tax Administration and speed up the adoption of a solution as well as a more effective definition of the obligations with the aim of facilitating the citizens that the Law provides. In voting day, as will representatives of the SNS in the National Assembly, I will support this set of tax laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65068	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65069	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, have already discussed a number of laws in this search in today's debate, and I will refer to two others who are also in the proposal. What is essential when it comes to this package of laws is, above all, that the laws that follow the budget, which we have just adopted, are the basis for filling the budget. Another important fact is that such a projected tax is the result of a multi-year trend in economic growth, and thus GDP growth, which reaches as much as 4% this year. Col. Petronijevic was right when he praised everything we could hear from him and what the government had proposed with this set of laws and the draft budget. What is most important for me and my parliamentary group is that this tax package will relieve the economy, which we believe will have a very positive impact on new investment investments in the economy both domestic and foreign investors and thus increase employment. The laws have been harmonised with each other in terms of tax relief or exemption from the payment of the employer's and employee's taxes, which seems to me to be further disrupting the economy. I will look first at the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and some of the solutions I want to highlight as good, noting that the tax burden on this basis is reduced from 62% to 61%. What are the most important changes in income tax? The untaxed amount of scholarships and loans from students and students to 30,000 dinars is increasing. Instead of 11741 dinars, the untaxable amount of scholarships and loans from students and students will increase to 30,000 dinars, which will contribute safely to the scholarship, above all, to a greater number of talented students and students and to higher amounts. Another important thing is to increase the untaxable amount of earnings from 15,300 dinars to 16,300 per month, thus reducing the tax base, and thus the amount of taxes to be paid on profits. The system of flat-rate taxation of the income made by the bonds is improved on the basis of the performance of the independent activity. The new simplified procedures will determine the status of paushals by automation, as well as the level of the pausal tax debt. New reliefs are being introduced for employers. The tax base on earnings for persons who establish a working relationship with the employer as newly-inhabited bonds in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for which there is a need on the domestic market is reduced. The measure concerns, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are currently resident abroad, who have special vocational education and for whose work and knowledge there is a need on the domestic market. Namely, if citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have not been in the country in the past years return and work in Serbia, they will have a reduction in the basis for tax and contribution of 70% over the next five years. I think this is a good stimulating measure. Another stimulating measure is the extension of the period of application of existing incentives for the employment of new persons in the form of the right to recover part of the tax paid on the basis of a new employee's income of 65% to 75%. By extending existing reliefs to another year, as well as using other fiscal reliefs, the private sector is encouraged to create new jobs and employ more people. This is a number of new tax measures that confirm the government's pro-active tax policy with the ultimate goal of making Serbia more economically rapidly developing tax burdens and strengthening the economy, hence new employment. Our goal must be to stop the outflows of young and professional personnel. Youth unemployment remains evident, although the unemployment rate has fallen, so adoption of this tax package expects faster and easier employment of young people. When it comes to the second law I want to talk about, it is a bill on amending the Law on the temporary way of regulating how to charge a fee for public media services, it increases from 220 dinars to 255, i.e. 35 dinars. This amount of funding is estimated to be sufficient to finance the function of the Public Service, which is precisely the amount of funds in the budget provided for by the Ministry of Culture and Information. So, this gives the opportunity to increase the self-financing of the Public Service, which is the ultimate goal, but with a very small increase in the burden of citizens. Of course, when increasing the amount that citizens should pay, or 35 dinars, other economic parameters, such as salary and pension increases, were also taken into account as simply one of the parameters for not being excessive. What has been heard in the discussion today and what seems to me, with the right of citizens, is that public media service, or RTS and RTS, really be citizens' services, have enough representation of the informational, but also of the educational and cultural programme, that the software content is, above all, quality, that there are no programme failures that can misrepresent our history, culture, tradition, music, to promote our cultural heritage and Serbia in general, and to pay particular attention to what is a children's programme, because next to them our children grow up and it is terribly important in times when more and more televisions are showing reality programs and possible expansion of unhealthy lifestyles. A number of criticisms could be heard on the Committee on Culture when it comes to perhaps the programme scheme of the Public Service. However, this is not really the topic of today's debate, and I would not look back at it, but I get the impression that it is an obligation for all of us to once again remind the Public Service of Serbia, even commercial televisions to pay attention to their programming schemes precisely because of our children who are formed as human on this basis. The Socialist Party of Serbia, the MPs will support a set of proposed laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65070	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65071	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are considering a set of laws in the finance ministry and the labour ministry, martial arts and social issues at today's session. These 11 draft laws are certainly in the role of further development and progress of the country of Serbia, a promotion clearly visible over the past seven years since SNS' responsibility for Serbia took over with President Aleksandar Vukic at the helm. The measures set out in these draft laws are related to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which we adopted yesterday. These draft laws encourage further investment in the Republic of Serbia, as it significantly reduces the burden on earnings, and thus opens the door wide for new employment for further development. This is an example of real social responsibility in running the country. By opening up a new investment space, by reducing the burden, we get this new, realistic, on a healthy economic basis secure employment and further development. These measures are clearly visible in reducing the contribution for PIO by 0.5%, and in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, as well as in the increase of 1,000 dinars of the non-taxable part of earnings in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Also, huge reliefs are provided for newly employed people with a reduction of 85 per cent to 100 per cent, as well as a reduction in income tax over the next three years of 70%, 65% and 60%. In 2012, the Serbian Progressive Party assumed responsibility for leading the country before the economic collapse. Meanwhile, the government owed the country 7 per cent and more interest loans. We've made more difficult moves in recent years, but we've consolidated the situation, we've pulled the country out for the edge of the break-in. The world appreciates our approach like this. Today, Serbia is in debt with five times smaller interest rates in rare situations, with interest that can be served. Both east and west, the world understands and appreciates what President Aleksandar Vukic is doing in Serbia today. It's not just clear how some people don't understand him in his country. So we will continue to work and build our land. Of course, in voting day with pleasure I and my colleagues will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65072	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65073	Thank you. I'd only ask you to tell me how much time I have left. Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, I will briefly refer to this set of draft laws on the agenda, which are the result of the government's good and stable economic policy. I will refer briefly to the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Pension and disability insurance in the Republic of Serbia is mandatory. Amendments to this law, which is covered by matters of pension and disability insurance, are also prescribed by voluntary pension funds and pension plans, which are governed by a special law, but were also required to be introduced into the roof law. The main objective of reforming the pension and disability insurance system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which will ensure legal certainty and a better social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. We are witnessing changes in the demographic movement of the population, in other words, due to the extension of the life span of the population, there are more and more of those who use this system of pension and disability insurance, so that an unfavourable relationship is created between the number of employees who pay contributions and the number of pension beneficiaries. Currently, due to this unfavourable relationship, the state from the budget touches the PIO Fund. This relationship required reform of the pension system to become sustainable. Reforms have been implemented in several stages. An age limit has been raised for retirement, for men 65 years, and for women gradually raising the border by six months, annually to 65 years. Then, the conditions for going into invalid retirement were strengthened. An early retirement pension was introduced, when the conditions for a work internship were met, but not for years of age, as well as more effective collection of contributions for pension and disability insurance. In addition to all the measures taken for the long-term stabilisation and recovery of the pension and disability insurance system, the key factor lies in new investments and new employment, as for the time being pensioners bear the burden, especially their material and social situation was made worse by restrictive measures that the state had to introduce because of macroeconomic stability. Fortunately, thanks to economic growth and stable economic policy, pensions are allowed to be brought into line based on consumer price developments and the movement of average earnings of employees in the Republic of Serbia, according to the so-called Swiss model, which is established by this law. This bill, which I would especially like to commend, establishes the right to a family pension and an out-of-marriage spouse, because the marriage and the out-of-marriage community are even, so it's only natural that other than the other rights of an out-of-marriage partner, there is also the right to a family pension. The second law, which I would briefly refer to, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. This bill reduces contribution rates for compulsory pension and disability insurance from 26% to 25.5%. This reduces the fiscal burden of income generated by natural persons on the basis of work. Also, the rate of contributions for pension and disability insurance is reduced and employers from 12% to 11.5%. The reduction of the contribution for PIO should contribute to the greater motivation of the employer, i.e. economic operators, to higher employment and thus to new investments, both domestic and foreign, as this solution ultimately reduces the cost of the employer, therefore, of the economy as a whole. This stimulating measure, at the very end of the line, should contribute to faster economic growth, and thus better filling the PIO Fund and helping its self-sustainability. Also, this law extends the time limit for the return of part of paid social security contributions and for employers on the basis of earnings for each new employee. This subsidy is also extended to 2020. Next, the law lays down the exemption from the payment of contributions to the burden of the employer and the burden on the newly established companies in the field of innovation activity, i.e. for the founders of these companies, starting from 1 March 2020, for a period of three years from the establishment. All of this assures us that Serbia's development path will be continued, and the SPS parliamentary group, the party that takes care of social justice, will support all these legal solutions, as they improve the position of the economy, increase employment, and thus the social economic position of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65074	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Violeta Lutovac Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65075	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, the main objective of adopting the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO is to achieve long-term sustainability of pension and disability insurance. The key factors are very clear. They lead to long-term sustainability of pension and disability insurance, and are certainly in the development of the country, new investments, as well as an increase in the number of employees. The long-term sustainability of the pension system directly affects the improvement of the social status of pensioners, both current and future generations of pensioners, also leads to their legal certainty, as well as a better standard of living. Thanks to the economic results achieved, we have led to the fact that today, as in the proposal for this law, we use the Swiss model for accounting, i.e. the Swiss formula, has actually shown that the best solution for long-term sustainability of pension and disability insurance is because pensions are paid in line with economic opportunities in the economy, i.e. directly related to inflation, i.e. they will protect them from inflation and provide for real pension growth, of course, with growth in earnings. Since we adopted the 2020 budget yesterday, which is indisputable, I would say that our Government of the Republic of Serbia has certainly set priorities. These priorities certainly include pensioners, and in January 2020 their pension will be increased by 5.4%. Since we have 1,700,000 people in Serbia who are pensioners, all of these pensioners, an increase of 5.4% for pensions will apply to the total number. Compared to 2014, when pensions were cut due to debts left by the previous government, by 2020 pensions will increase from 13.7% to 19.4%. Out of the total number of pensioners, it means 1,700,000 people, the largest number, the percentage number of pensioners is from the category of employees, as much as 84%, agricultural pensions 10%, and pensions from independent employment are 5.63%. The reforms carried out in several phases were restrictive, but they had to be because we had an unfavourable relationship between the number of employees, i.e. the number of insurance companies on the one hand and the number of pensioners, the user of pensions on the other. All of this led to deficits in the business of the Republic Fund for PIO and we came to the conclusion that 40% had to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In order to reduce donations made from the budget for pensions, and to stop the further growth of deficits created in the Republic Fund for PIO, we had to implement these measures. I would like to commend this law, or proposed amendments to the law, to persons who, in accordance with the law, carry out temporary and occasional tasks, also, persons who are engaged on the basis of a work contract, persons who carry out jobs through youth cooperatives, this law puts them in a level playing field with all other pensioners in our republic. I will also remind you that in November 2019, we paid one-time aid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars, thanks to the only existing surplus in the budget. I would also remind citizens that pensions had to be reduced in 2014, as public debt rose from 8.7 to 17.7 billion dinars during the government of Dragan Gilas from 2008 to 2012. It was also made minus in the 7.6m-euro budget. Thanks to the responsible government, its hard work, we have reached a surplus in the 46.6 billion dinar budget, and that is why in October of the month we adopted budget rebalances, and in doing so we focused some of the money on increasing salaries for public sector workers from 8% to 15%, and also in November we managed to pay for single aid to pensioners. Once again, thanks to the responsible work of the entire government, we have made it possible for surpluses to exist in the budget, as well as stable financial conditions in the country, and so we have managed to create conditions for the state to help the oldest citizens and directly affect the improvement of living standards in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65076	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope finally the ministers get involved. If not, I really don't know what they're sitting here for, they better go to their ministries, maybe they're getting lost, and they're doing something useful for the citizens of Serbia. Since this morning, we've been listening again to praises and listening to how good it is in Serbia and hearing it's a golden age. We heard exactly how unemployment for the first time probably fell below 10% in Serbia's history, and that, to say the point was, I was asked to do some of this official data, and that, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, because there was absolutely nothing to prove to you, to prove to you, and to prove that it was actually just a game of statistics that you're doing, and practically, on the basis of official data published by the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the National Employment Service and the Ministry of Finance, it's very difficult to determine what the real state of unemployment is, what the number of employees are, and on what basis you're even declaring that data. The first, I think, delusion that needs to be broken up with Serbian citizens is that you count the number of employees on the basis of, for example, the number of salaries paid in the previous month, as you don't count average earnings on the basis of actually paid salaries, it's also a statistical category. When you determine the number of employees, you move... So, it's not about the right number of employees in Serbia, it's about some statistical assessment done by polling a small number of people and then asking you, I'll read it, it says -- did you do any work for a profit or income that could be in cash, goods or services for at least an hour, be careful, imagine, for at least one hour, at the employer, on your own or on the farm property, even if during the week under observation, you didn't receive a profit or get income in those forms? So, no absolute connection to this has anything to do with reality, it has nothing to do with people who do, but you see for yourself, based on what the surveyor decides, and what you estimate on that basis, you can say anything. How pointless your polls and estimates are are the following data. Here, for example, in 2012, the total number of employees was one million 866 thousand citizens in Serbia and then the official unemployment rate was 23.9%. Next year, a million and 865 thousand employees. So, a thousand less employees in Serbia, and the rate has dropped in a magical way to 22.1%. Imagine how pointless that is. A thousand less employees, according to the logic of things, should grow the unemployment rate, and according to your official data, the unemployment rate has dropped 2% and then someone should applaud you and say how good it is in Serbia. Next year, it's even more crazy. Instead of a million and 865 thousand, we now have a million and 845 thousand employees. Twenty thousand employees less in the second year of your regime, and yet in a magical way the unemployment rate continues to fall to 19.2%. Lose 20,000 employees from the previous year and reduce the unemployment rate by 3%. Who's crazy here? Is this accurate data? These are, to inform the minister, official data from the Ministry of Finance website. This site has been my favorite lately, most of all I like to go there, to supply data and to point out to the citizens of Serbia what ways you deceive them and how false your statistics are, how pointless and how much they mean nothing. The following year, with a million and 845 thousand, then the methodology for calculating the number of unemployed is also changing, reportedly increasing the number of employees, the absolute number, per million and 896 thousand. At the same time, the unemployment rate drops to 17.7%. So one year you lose 20,000 employees and the unemployment rate drops 3%, next year supposedly 40,000 new employees, then the rate drops less than the previous year, falls by 1.5%. What kind of correlation is this? What does this make sense? No, I mean, as you can see, absolutely none. Next year 20,000 new jobs and the inflation rate drops to 15.3%. So 2.4% is falling unemployment, although it's twice as busy as the previous year. How can you explain that? How can this be explained year by year, that your statistics are completely pointless? Some surveyor asks, once again, that famous question, so the number of employees is determined by asking someone – were you doing any work for profit or income during the week under observation that could be in cash, goods or services for at least an hour at the employer, either on your own or in the agricultural household? Malten when they call someone and get a wife, a housewife, and they ask whether she cooked lunch or ironed laundry, she says – yes, if it lasted an hour, she did, did you get a salary, she – I am not, almost busy, she doesn't have to take it. That's what you do and that's how you deceive Serbian citizens. It is also interesting that at different times, as you agree, you have different data on the total number of unemployed. Let's take an example of Alexander Wolfie. He claimed here that he was, for example. In 2013, the unemployment rate was 28.7%. According to official data, which are available, it is not. Today, the claim has been made that the current unemployment rate is 9.5%. Unemployment is not measured right now, gentlemen. In 2017, you claimed that unemployment was only 10.6%, and this was claimed in August 2017 by Aleksandar Vucic, so it is official data for 2017 13.5%. Who cares about these current data that are absolutely not maintained by the end of the year and cannot even be comparable to the previous years? It's a similar thing with many other criteria. You know, you're talking about the third quarter right now. According to flashes, economic growth is 4.7%, and you've repeated it 100 times. What was the economic growth in the first quarter? Why didn't you talk to all the bells on TV about how small he was? It didn't occur to you. One more thing, I must ask the finance minister again to give me the information, that is, to answer the asked parliamentary question both publicly at the session and in writing - how much did you save by anti-constitutional law, which you called the Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions, what are the savings for each individual - 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017? So let's see how much you've taken from the back of your pensioner, how much you've earned, because I'm saying that those funds for the state aren't big and that they could have been provided in much better ways unaffected by those rights that I think are inviolable. The rights acquired cannot be touched. And you're stuck saying that – it's not the right amount of retirement, it's the right to have a pension. Give back the money you owe the pensioners. Thank you. They're not interested. First, you tell the exact information about how much you've taken, and then you get back, let's see how we're gonna get that money back to the pensioners, even if it's the ones who are alive and the ones with interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65078	I thank my colleague Sarovic. The word has a representative of Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65079	I'd like first, honourable MPs, to refer to the fact, since I've heard here in the previous days of the debate that someone's been kidnapped unconstitutionally, etc. To inform the public - The Constitutional Court issued a statement on 24 September 2015 and decided on 23 September 2015 that it had completed the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the Law on the provisional determination of how pensions were paid. Following an analysis of the provisions of the contested law from the point of view of all relevant allegations, the initiator found that there was no basis for launching the procedure for establishing the constitutionality of this law and its discrepancies with confirmed international contracts. Then, they say the law meets the requirements of the allowed limitation of property rights, starting with the measures prescribed by law, not by a lower legal force act, that the law does not affect the right to pension, that the measures are prescribed to achieve a legitimate objective and to create conditions for the regular payment of pensions even in a reduced amount of general and public interest. Then, that there is proportionality in the regulation of measures, because these measures are less affected by persons with lower pensions, which is achieved precisely by the fact that the percentage of the reduction is not the same for all pensions, more than 25,000 dinars, and finally given that it is temporary measures, and that the Court has also established from the provision of the Law on the Budgetary System, which binds the pension pay limit to the participation of pensions in GDP, the Constitutional Court has assessed that they cannot be accepted as the basics of the initiator on the non-compliance of the contested law with the Constitution and confirmed international contracts. It's on the Constitutional Court website. So I'd like us not to deceive the public and our pensioners, bring them into unnecessary cost. What is a fact is that our primary goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the material position of all our citizens, including pensioners. The proof of that is years ago. The increase in pensions is from year to year which next year will be 5.4% and we will continue with such practice in the future. As much as anyone likes it or doesn't like it, it remains a task for us, and so it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65080	I thank the ministers. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65081	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, again, we have heard a series of lies and interpretations of data that are very clear, only of course, for those who deal and understand in formulas based on data and on employment rates and unemployment rates, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but throughout the world, given that the formulas used, that the definitions used, that the questions in the surveys used are in line with the international organisation of work and their definitions. For information, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, unemployment rates, the formula for calculating the unemployment rate is the number of unemployed through, or relative to the number of persons in employment 15 plus. The employment rate is the number of employees 15 plus compared to the total population aged 15 years. So, one formula with another formula, given that the difference, has no causal-consequential connection, honourable MPs, in the way that you tried to show it. If you'd just... . Marko Atlagic: He's confused. ) Well, I can't say that he's confused, because he's going to say that I don't respect the honourable MP, but what's obvious is that if he got into formulas and both of them, if he saw the way these two formulas are calculated, and yet according to the standards that work in the world, then he'd come to the same conclusion that I've just presented to him. The formulas aren't the same. The formulas differ. The denominator differs in those formulas. Thus, they cannot be balanced or cause each other and vice versa. What is much more important to me than this ignorance is information for Serbian citizens, and I will repeat, 9.5 is the unemployment rate in our country in the third quarter of this year. Historically ever since the rate of unemployment was measured since 1995, it's the lowest level. Somewhere the average in Europe is about 6% to 7%. What we are going to do, and we are also doing with the 2020 budget, which you adopted yesterday and all these incentives for employment, which we are discussing today, to continue to reduce this unemployment rate to that level which is the average in the EU, but this is already in itself a historical result. For our country a few days ago, I have repeated, I will repeat and repeat again, from the other side of 2012 until September of this year over 625 thousand new jobs in our country. What anyone can see, who wants to see, of course, is that factories in our country are opening up, highways are building, new jobs are opening up. So not only does the unemployment rate and the number of employees show it, but also the rate of economic growth of our country. The third quarter of this year is 4.7% and we will wait for the last quarter of 2019. We expect a growth rate of over 5.2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65082	I thank Minister Mali. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65083	It has been injured, Mr. Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly and the fact that this much anxiety and the minister and those who are trying to represent some views of the ruling coalition are actually talking about how much they themselves don't believe what they're saying. You see, Mr. Mali, how soft this applause is when you announce historical, supposedly historical successes and results and wonders one thing, but not even those who support you and who vote for your bill. Mr. Mali, I didn't say anything wrong. They're all absolutely accurate and they're all from the Ministry of Finance site. The way you're going to interpret certain data or someone else is, of course, something that can be discussed. You're trying, as you used to have a communist wing – statistics on our Dick, what you want that picture, I think it's something that best describes your regime. You yourself admit that it doesn't have anything to do with some real indicators, but this is calculated on the basis of the formula, this is based on another formula, and that's exactly what I'm saying. So it's not a lie. It's not about real numbers of jobs, it's about polls, it's about real estimates and it's statistics. Serbian citizens know best how hard they live. I proved to you at the previous sessions that the real value of pensions is at the historical minimum, that today it is at some 86.17% compared to the base of 2012 and that is your data and that is what hurts you. That's what it is, Mr. Minister, which is the point. So don't hide behind false statistics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65084	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. You've pointed out a violation of the National Assembly's dignity, Article 107, I suppose, since the breach of the Rules of Procedure can be done by me as chairman, I don't see that I've done an injury. (Nemnja Sarovic: You did not interrupt the minister when he said MPs are telling the truth. ) I do not see that I have done any harm to the Rules of Procedure by allowing the Minister to answer the questions and findings you have made during your presentation. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65085	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, gentlemen of the House of Ministers, don't get too excited about reading the data that my dear colleague had for a while, because when someone can't read a working-law and replace words evenly while reading and replacing a week with a word-session, I'm questioning the data that stands out. Because he probably doesn't know, when he can't read words, he probably doesn't even know numbers. At least that's how I see it. Now, let's clear up some things because there's always talk here about statistics that are essentially methods, not science, let's deal with the exact data where no one can object, or whether there's a poll, or how many people have been surveyed, or whether faces are older than or younger than 15, but clean numbers that can be checked. You can check from multiple sources what our pension fund looks like. The first thing, to be clear right now, is I'm not talking about it because of a respected colleague, because he will never figure it out, the Pension Fund is filled with two basics, one of the basics is the contributions paid by employees, but since the Pension Fund is destroyed by one policy, which was led by 2012, unfortunately, the missing pension part is paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This total mass paid to pensioners, let's say, since 2012, was 562.33700.000 or 271.152,000,000 almost, touched by the Republic of Serbia's budget and this is the first one we should take when comparing the authorities of Dragan Dilas, Šolak, Boris Tadic and their followers in the Fiscal Council, but also here as far as I can see, among the opposition MPs present, because you remember a scientific paper by the President of the Fiscal Council - the growth of the number of employees did not happen without GDP growth. It is the one that receives 400,000 dinars on various grounds, and says that we cannot raise salaries to public sector employees, which in most cases for young people are 36, 37,000 dinars. Now, let's look, here, in 2019, today's total pension payment fund is 668,140,000,000, which is roughly larger by 104,000,000 than it was in 2012. Let's also look at the amount paid from the budget to this much larger fund. In 2012 in the golden age of Boris Tadic and Gilas were paid 271,151,000,000 or 102,000 more. Now, we see that the difference is over 200,000 million. I'm asking the question now -- here, Minister Mali, Minister Djordjevic, where does that difference come from? I think the difference has been due to an increase in the number of employees... Nemanja Sarovic: You think. Yes, I think, unlike some who don't think for themselves. Someone has to tell her what they have to think every morning. The increase in employee earnings is mostly in the real sector. Now, that's the data we have to deal with, which is that pensions are both nominal and percentage and in, I say, foreign currencies, bigger than they were in 2012. It's a rapper, the rest are methods that someone reads and interprets as it suits him. Now, is he sorry about Dragan Gilas, because he participated in the work of public enterprises that destroyed Belgrade and took over commercial banks, and later it had to come back from the Belgrade city's budget, I don't know. Did he have any use for it personally, I don't know. But as soon as he cries out for them, I believe he did. So much for their methods. So we have over 100 billion larger funds and over 100 billion are being paid less out of the budget. Well, I guess that's what employees pay for. They don't pay someone else. It's not from abroad, it's not from the moon, it's from Mars, it's from our employees. Although it seems to someone, I am sorry that the Republic of Serbia has growing employment, the better it lives, the better it does not love its country, let it find the right argument to criticise the government, not to invent and reverse facts and accurate data. Another thing, Ministers, my colleague Marijan Risticevic will talk about it a little bit more since he asked the parliamentary question, and my discussion is part of the TV subscription issue. Those who are criticizing her the most were introducing her as a tax. I don't want to talk much about it right now, but where does that measure? You know, if my esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic asks a parliamentary question to Director Bujosevic – is it a contract concluded between RTS and companies or companies where Dragan Gilas is owned, he gets the answer that there are such contracts, but they can't be made available to the MPs either, because they are part of the business secret. Now, someone's got something wrong with it. Not RTS d.o.o. but it is a public service which has the status of a public undertaking and cannot at all be any contractual obligation it has out of regular activity to be a business secret. But it is the manner of Dragan Gilas, Boris Tadic, Solak and the team. We'll discuss the School later, and that's that whenever they figure something out, it's all secret. Remember only ministers, the Fiata contract is secret. Even today, we must not disclose the provisions of that contract. That's why they attacked and accused us all, then you were mayor of Belgrade, you put a contract on building "Beograda on water" for a complete review of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they accuse Alexander Vukic and you, and everyone else, that you stole something. Let's move on, the Etyhad partnership agreement, available, again accused of stealing something. The "Nikola Tesla" Airport concession treaty, once again available to the public, again says something is being stolen. They speak of those who put on every document a degree of secrecy, as if it were maltene war, security or any other secret, so that they don't know how much money they're taking, or how much damage they're doing to the state. Now the contract between the yellow Buicket and Dragan Gilas is a secret contract. Well, it can't be secrets. And he doesn't have that degree of independence of RTS, to hide his financial business. Its independence relates in the way of information, to editorial policy, rather than business policy. It's a thief. Nothing else. Mr. Minister, unlike what he can't read, I have one question for you. He's referring to the finance minister. He can't read Nemanja Sarovic. Proved. Is it normal, here we are discussing the tax on the profits of the company's legal entities, call them as much as you want. Is it normal that the owner of the company, the founder, pays his company certain funds, leads them as a loan at interest rates that are higher, the interest rate is higher than can be paid by business banks, banks that are registered to lend credit, lend money to their company, charge interest, and the amount of interest charged goes to him as a tax relief. Is that normal? Let me say it again. The owner of the company, not because of you, Mr. Minister, for Serbian citizens to know what kind of bastards Nemanja Sarovic defends. So, the owner of the company pays his company a certain asset as a loan, charges an interest which is greater than the interest paid by the commercial banks, and that amount or interest amount is considered to be a tax relief when calculating the tax on the profits of the legal persons. I don't think that's normal. That's what happens to SBB, School. He pays SBB loans through his company registered in Luxembourg. These loans are accounted for by interest which is greater than the loans provided by the banks. He refuses our tax rate 15% at the billing rate and pays it in Luxembourg with 5%, money, profit and income in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that's normal. It's not normal because, first of all, you know who can lend loans. The bond law knows the loan, doesn't know the loan. That's the one that throws as a lawyer needs to know. The loan is one thing, the loan is another. Credits may only be granted by institutions that are registered, authorised by the Central Bank, or by the NBS. If the interest is greater than that given by the banks, then it is a classic green credit that serves only for one purpose, in order to silence the tax in the Republic of Serbia. Nothing more. It is only one of the parts that Solak, Dragan Gilas and the SBB team have been making money from the Republic of Serbia for years, because the law was written by them. Those provisions in the law still stand. The first next amendment to the law on corporate tax is changed. She can't be cashed in any way, the interest to be accounted for, and the tax not paid on her. Where the owner of a legal person, whether he is domestic or foreign, charges that interest and reduces the tax base. It can't. That's not normal. That's absolutely not normal. These provisions have been made, especially when it comes to tax relief, to return to the employees and the unemployed. As I see it, despite the tax reliefs that we are about to establish with these amendments and amendments to the law, it is planned for 2020 that the pension fund is 696 billion 898 million, and that the grant from the Republic of Serbia's budget is 157 billion or about 16 billion less than it is today, which just shows that someone can't read statistics, that the number of employees is increasing because the funds and pension insurance and health insurance are increasing, and they reduce budget grants. It's credible data, and the methods someone uses, I don't care at all. That's why, in voting day, we need to support this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65086	He's got a word... You'll get a replica, Mr. Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Is it according to your Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65087	Mr. Milicevic, this is certainly not the first and last insults that Veroljub Arsic has brought to my account, but, you know, the insult must be assessed by who it comes from. When he says I don't know how to read, how to make a deal. You know, unlike him and his colleagues, I graduated from the state college, and I finished it when it was years to finish it. I didn't end up with 40 or 50. Therefore, those who do not know how to read, and have diplomas, have master's and doctoral titles false, may seek in their ranks. Besides, no one better than the president of your party has told you what to do. He says himself - rip out your diplomas in time, don't wait. To tell you the truth, I expected this morning when I just came to the Parliament of a bunch of papers that before you came to the wallpaper, you'd rip it up nicely and solve the problem that way. But when the gentleman says – I mean, I can only say the end of the joke – point, because that way you can't argue. What might be the most important. Here, they listen to Serbian citizens and listen to the previous speaker's ministers say a huge robbery is being held in Serbia over the previous years, a robbery by Serbian citizens, a budget robbery. Here, we're all shocked, but I'm asking you why none of you are doing anything. What do you allow the robbery? Why don't you arrest the thieves? Since you are not ashamed to talk, you who are in power, you who are all and all, to talk about how someone has robbed Serbian citizens, and for seven years you have allowed that robbery. You can't say - we're not agreed, so you're accomplices if you don't stop that robbery, and you have all the instruments to do it in your own hands. You have absolute power at all levels. Why do you allow a robbery?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65088	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure for one simple reason, because first we heard your subjective opinion, and then the subjective opinion and attitudes of fellow Arsic, which is in any case both yours and his legitimate right. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65089	I want to, Mr. Milicevic. I answered the replica earlier to the presentation of Minister Djordjevic, who completely misread mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65090	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I understand that you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a representative of the promoter, Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65091	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I think it is important that we conclude this part of the debate with information that is of paramount importance to the citizens of Serbia. I'm not gonna deal with whether someone got a round of applause, didn't get a round of applause, how high or strong that applause is. There's a lot of things that are said and just aren't true and I don't get into someone's knowledge of statistics. I put out the exact two formulas that measure both the employment rate and the unemployment rate. All these formulas are, in accordance with the standards that apply in the world, and if someone knows how to interpret them or not, that's his problem. What's more important than all that is next. The situation in our pension fund is never better. That's what Serbian citizens must know. That's pretty much what our oldest citizens need to know. Here's the exact data. So, ever since that fund existed, some donations have been needed and they've been out of the budget to help pay off pensions. Then one time came from 2008 to 2012, a large number of factories were closed, a large number of people were out of work. These contributions were not paid, corresponding to the rate of pension increases or the number of pensioners that were then in Serbia. It came to the fact that the Republic of Serbia is out of the budget, and at the time it was raising money to touch the PIO Fund, so that the PIO Fund, on the other hand, would have money to pay off pensions. In 2008, the share of budget transfers in the total revenues of the PIO Fund was 35.5%, and then it grew from year to year. At some point, there was 50%. This year, the amount is 22.5%, and the PIO Fund's budget for next year is 20.2%. So if you look from 2008 to today, we have never allocated less from the budget for donations and aid to the PIO Fund, for only one reason -- which in Serbia you have never more employees, which is paid taxes, contributions are paid, factories are opened in all Serbian cities. These taxes and contributions from a full PIO fund, which is why pensions are paid, and that is why pensions are safe today, on real grounds and growth year by year, precisely thanks to the economic results we achieve, and the rates of growth of our economy and the reduction of public debt and the increase of the number of employees, but, above all, it means safety and security in the cost of pensions. As our economy grows, and just before I said, 4.7% of the third quarter of this year, over 5.2% are expected in the last quarter of this year, next year we projected 4%, I'm sure there will be more, and so will pensions grow. But again, I say, on a secure basis, on a real basis. This data that people may be neglecting is very important -- the PIO Fund is becoming more and more independent, with less and less support from the budget, it manages to pay off pensions that are growing year by year and that is the most important information for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65092	Thank you, Minister Mali. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65094	We also had before this beginning the injury of the Rules of Procedure of Col. Sarovic, well, here, I will use these nine minutes as far as I have from time, later I ask you to finish that part about procedure and work. Mr. Minister, these laws that are ahead of us and this set of first joint debates, what I'm going to say is, first of all, the Ministry of Finance, but I'm also going to talk about contributions to mandatory social and pension insurance. First of all, here's what I'm going to start with, since you're here right now, and it's about compulsory insurance by the warlords, or farmers in Serbia. In the register of farmers who are due to pay contributions in Serbia, however, 370,000 are assumed to be no longer in that register on various grounds, and on the other hand only 50,000 to 70,000 of them are able to regularly settle their obligations. These commitments were slightly lower by a few hundred dinars of 6,000 dinars for 2018, approximately this year, and although this amount is considerably reduced by 2020 – who is in a situation to pay for it? We have a big, really big problem that we, as the MPs of the SRS, are dealing with in an institutional way and through the work of the Committee on Agriculture. There was also a meeting in the Serbian government, I attended the meeting, there was a three-member commission of the government, and we still haven't found a solution to help our poor farmers who can't raise that much debt to pay, and especially that part about the health care work. Health leave, because they, practically some of them, haven't been in a situation to pay regularly, so you know how that debt was accumulated and interest on interest. They just came into a situation where they didn't even have a health book. So you're not the resolute minister now to say how much these total debts are and how much you're willing to write off at this moment of debt, and this has to happen, because we're really going to get into a situation that many of them who have spent so many years and decades paying can't retire now. Minister Sinisha Mali said the government would find a solution. But it's also an inherited debt, right, from the past, from this yellow bandit government. But you must see as soon as possible with the new law on how it will be a special law for farmers, which Minister Nedimovic also announced last year. On the other hand, what is the general remark of all those who pay flat-rate taxes in Serbia is that they do not receive accurate, on the basis of flat-rate taxation, which are craftsmen, entrepreneurs, all those who belong to that group of taxpayers, solutions on time and with the exact amount to pay. Either the Tax Administration of Serbia doesn't work, or in the centre they belong to, it's not registered. What's a taxpayer's concern? They've already introduced them that they now have to run accounting like they're enterprises, so whoever has a STR, who has a buty, whoever has any store has to run a grocery bookkeeping like it's a registered company. That, you know, collects bookkeeping services then. As far as administrative taxis are concerned, this is truly inappropriate and absolutely unacceptable for Serbian citizens to, above all, raise double tax and a new driver's license from a total of 760 to just over 1,100 dinars. When you look at percentages, it's much, much more than pay increases, pensions that you brag about. It's simply incomprehensible that you're punishing someone who's been picked up in city traffic and now he has to pay that amount for his I.D. The state is supported by taxis, from contributions, from taxes, but you don't have to bang every day and every year more and more on the citizens' pocket, because you don't have a valid reason for that. What's that got to do with anything? Did the printing of that, the re-promatter? That's where you put all the machines and equipment that you needed in the ministries. Don't, really, because drivers over the past 10 years have been having some intrusions that are amazing. You changed the law last year, that the technical inspection of the vehicle with the amount that was really somewhere around 1,000, 1,200 dinars, as who gives you some discount, depends on which insurance house, where you register, and so that amount was approximately, to climb the incredible 4,000, and even 5,000 dinars. Where is it in the world that you look every year for a new vehicle technical inspection? These car houses guarantee a vehicle for five plus two years, and in most countries, if you want the EU, which you boast and which you want to get into, registration of vehicles, primarily for new vehicles, does not charge at least two, but up to three years and a technical review of five years. What I'm leaving for the very end, that's going to be said by the amendments, is this new level of tax for RTS. Citizens need to know that it's not just that they're going to pay out of their pockets through an electricity bill for those who say they're a public service. You have the right to know everything, and in fact it's a television that's under the yellow administration, the yellow Buicket and the other editors who make television and software schemes, mostly informative, as they will, making huge money by allowing REM to have a longer period of advertising within an hour than it is allowed to others, when some spectacular series are, and rephrase the series that were recorded 20 years ago. Citizens, in addition to that, and today said one of your colleagues and we care about repeating it, both pigs and cows and objects, because, you know, the procedure is for you to check out some object where you have a number, so to say, yeah, now you won't pay an RTS tax of 255 dinars on that. So, the weekenders pay both the old and the sick, no one taught them to make demands, it's minimal, and don't give it as an excuse. The TV with its programme policy, above all, informative policy, serves Western forces and mentors who give them certain indications, how to display pictures in Serbia, not how citizens want it, and it is no public service in the function of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65095	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. All right, what are you nervous about? I'll give you my word. Pick up the Rules of Procedure, and I'll give you my word. It's no problem. The word is Mr. Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, tell me how I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65096	Mr. Marinkovic, you hurt him by disrespecting the order of speakers. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that whoever reports for the replica has the advantage. It is also determined that whoever reports after the breach of the Rules of Procedure has the privilege of receiving the word immediately after the previous speaker has been delivered. Do you understand now? My application was in the system before the break. You abuse the permanent position of the chairman and you and all others who chair the sittings and are privileged in an inappropriate manner by the minister. Just before Minister Mali said - here, before the end of this session. How does he know when it's gonna end? Who is he to finish the sessions and parts of the National Assembly session? You are constantly giving them the advantage when it comes to replicas and ending a circle of replicas when MPs from ruling parties, or ministers, speak, and that's embarrassing. Are you so afraid of the opposition? It hurts so much the words we say, the arguments, and this little time we have. Twenty-eight minutes, or 27 has an SRS parliamentary group for 10 laws, and that's a lot to you, and that's unbearable to you. Is that the democracy you're propagating? Then cancel the system logs and move on as if nothing had happened. I still haven't answered Minister Djordjevic about the Constitutional Court. How many speakers there have been in the meantime, and you refuse to give a word. And then you ask how you broke the Rules of Procedure. Let me get this debate on fire and we'll be making arguments for each other. We're not afraid, well, you have 10 times as much time, but give even that crumb to us who are in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65097	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I owe Mr. Sarovic an explanation. We are really trying, all who chair the Assembly, we are trying to give everyone the same chance, and so does President Maja Gojkovic, Veroljub Arsic, Milicevic and I do not see the reason for such a meal. I really came here to chair the 14:00 hours, I have here a number of speakers, and therefore I gave my word to your party colleague, Mrs. Jovanovic. If I'm wrong about you, I'm sorry. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I can't, I don't have a procedural option right now to give you a line, I'm here to chair at 1400 hours. [[Inemnja Sarovic: I have the right to replica.]] There, I apologized to you publicly. I have a number of speakers here. Yeah, I'll apologize for no problem in doing that, so we have simple normal conditions to do that. I will now give my word to Minister Djordjevic, because I have no procedural option to give you the replica now, and then again, the violation of the Rules of Procedure and everything else that you want right now. Nemanja Sarovic: How come I don't have one? You can look for anything you want. Please, let's just establish a chance for normal work. Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I'll take that as a wish. Nemanja Sarovic: You can't consider anything. ) The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65098	Thank you. Here, let me answer this question when it comes to the debt of agricultural pensioners. It is currently 240 billion dinars, of which 180 billion is for the PIO Fund, and 60 billion is for health care. It currently has 172.037 agricultural pensioners. For them, 2.6% of billions of dinars are allocated monthly, and they cover barely 6% of those 2.6 billion with their contributions. A Task Force within the Ministry of Agriculture has been formed to see how and how the future criteria should be for payment of contributions. Certainly, immediately after this is over and new criteria are put in place, the old debt will be settled, and I know that this is the biggest problem for all those who want to retire, and they do not have 15 years of taxes and contributions paid. What is important, we are certainly aware of the fact that for them it is a big problem that the current law represents that the ownership that has more than half a hectares should pay these taxes and contributions, and many of them cannot, since these land are not located in some areas where it is possible to make such a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65099	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65100	Mr. Minister, in addition, a group should be formed to deal not only with the Ministry of Agriculture, but also with the Ministry of Finance, so if you want your ministry to be resolute in the matter of contributions to contribute to the future for agricultural pensioners, that is how they calculate on the basis of income and useful land areas. What does it mean now that someone has a property that barely even processes, an old mechanism, someone sows something, so is it going to pop up or not? On the other hand, you have people who were really seriously able to invest in agricultural production more yields and so on, and it's normal for you to think that way. What you're saying is, you've separated nicely, thank you for this information that I'm not guessing, and I'm not looking for something on some websites that isn't true. So all that's being calculated and what's in their debt and it's being done as a health debt, everything has to be written off, because believe me, they didn't use that favor. It's impossible to pay something, and it's retroactive for something they weren't in a position to use. If one host is the only insurance company in the family home, not only could he not be treated by larger members of his family who through him confirm health books. There was Minister Lonchar, a few months ago, now we have all these, as you would like to say. system laws, when we talked about the Health Insurance Act, he also said that he didn't know about it and that it was incorrect to pay for it. Well, if that's how you get them off this debt right now, let the IRS work there, let them issue new solutions, and then see for this second. If it continues to build up in 2020, many of them have long met pension conditions, then there is nothing. After the election, there's a new government coming together, make sure you do it as soon as possible because that's what people are looking for. Do you believe me, Mr. Djordjevic, you have here your colleagues who are the presidents of the municipalities and who we have been participating in some municipalities, people farmers since the morning itself, how they know that the doors of the municipality will open, come and ask the president what we're going to do with our debts. They know about that door where to knock. He, when he goes to the tax office, comes or, God forbid, preying on everything, takes away their houses and their machines and their equipment. What was to be done about this subscription, as far as RTS is concerned, because they draw a lot of money from the budget, and that's inappropriate and this "lex specialis" that was brought in and now with this 255 dinar tax, that you see what is beautiful and how much on the facilities that are used for food, for keeping cattle and for other purposes farmers charge a tax for RTS?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65101	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65102	Mr. Marinkovic, you've noticed me at last. I've reported in accordance with Article 104. It's funny to you now. You know very well that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, although you will not admit it and you know very well that you have had not only procedural opportunities but also a procedural obligation to give me your word. Mr. Djordjevic answered me, completely misread my presentation and talked about some decision by the Constitutional Court. I've read that decision, Mr. Djordjevic, long before you, but you seem to have misunderstood it. What are the arguments that this Constitutional Court has used and which are yours? He says it's a legitimate goal for the government. So it's not against the law because the government's goal is justified? Well, what constitutional court can the government's goals assess whether they're justified or not? Is it the Yellow Constitutional Court, here, first tell us, because the court hours are working, the hours are not working. The D.A.'s time is working, time's not working. Time is good, time is bad. Another argument, he says, was taken away from pensioners in proportion to their financial power. Well, is that an argument to kidnap pensioners for what they've earned honestly? I don't think so. If it were a respectable Constitutional Court, it wouldn't be an argument. And lastly, you say -- it's okay to kidnap the pensioners because it's temporary. By what time is it temporary? How many years can it be temporary? You have announced that there will be a year, so it has been much longer than that. If it's okay for a year, if it's okay for four years, then it could be 40 years, it's temporary again, or a table. So decide whether the courts and other institutions in Serbia are worth it or not, whether their decisions are respected or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65104	I'm done here, and I won't answer again. So it can't be when it suits you, then it's good, and when it doesn't suit you, then yellow thieves are like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65105	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Nemanja Sarovic: No. ) Thank you for your understanding. National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65106	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107, paragraphs 7 and 8. Because you do not comply with the Rules of Procedure and you did not give a measure in accordance with this article with paragraphs 7 and 8, I will go home well now, and you do not have to apply the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If the previous speaker was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, then I don't know what this is all about? It was a classic replica, and you let it happen by who knows which time. Let's not have that MP misusing these provisions over and over again, but you're apologizing, you're not applying the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking to make a statement on this vote on the day of the vote, and now I'm going to make it nice for your injury to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65107	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Thank you for your criticism. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Marian Risticevic: No, it's me! Everyone has their own way and perception. Some accuse me of talking to a professor, sir, for apologizing, but I can't please everyone. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Marian Risticevic: Are you deaf? Thank you. (National MP Marijan Risticevic dumped the card. ) The word has Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65108	When it comes to the PIO Fund, I agree with you and it needs to be done very carefully, but you have to be aware that when it comes to the build-up of debts, we have to first resolve how and how we're going to work in the future and how these taxes and contributions will be paid, because for now, as things stand, our debts are still piling up, so that even if we start to settle now, nothing, we'll just chase and all future debts. So, the Ministry of Agriculture must, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, make criteria and how future taxes and contributions will be paid, to be on realistic grounds, to have a whole new criterion that will enable those who have not been able to pay, to pay in the future and then to see how we get out of all of this and how these debts, to say, to cancel. What matters is, there's only one thing you said wrong. It's okay for health care, what's not paid and maybe someone's been treated, maybe someone's not, but they're not just investing in the current treatment, they're investing in the future, because in the perspective of the moment when they become farm pensioners, they're going to get paid by the PIO fund, and we don't have an inflow of funds, we'll only have new pensioners. The debt is big, and if you know that we've managed to get what out of the budget to be about 22% in this year, and next year 20%, what we're touching from the budget, and if you take the information that it's 2.6 billion, of which 6% is just covered by their taxes and contributions, that's about 2.45 billion every month, we're coming from the budget. When it's multiplied by 12, it turns out to be about 29.3 billion, which makes an additional deficit for the PIO fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65109	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65110	That's not possible, Mr. Minister, because health care is what you need to use at a given time, and what's disabled because you're in this problem, that you don't have all the taxes and contributions paid, so you can't verify in the Social Security Fund is one aspect. And that, you say, savings for future time, so now that you of all of us who are employed are accumulated and being paid through taxes and contributions to the pension fund is what needs to be used in future times, and now simply nobody has taken advantage of it and it's something that can't even be remunerated legally. After all, we talked about it at this meeting that was held in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and came to a similar conclusion. Now no one could tell us because she wasn't a competent person from the Ministry of Finance how much that health debt was in total. You have this problem with both ordinary craftsmen and other people who, due to various circumstances, have come into this situation, but this is something that must be dealt with by special laws, and above all by the proper taxation of farmers on the basis of their assets and surfaces that are processed and based on the yields they make. You know, and in Vojvodina, that problem is very big. A colleague, Arpad Fremond, talked about the fact that several tens of thousands of these were in North-Baba County when we were in that meeting, where there was a higher yield per hectare than in some rural environment. What to expect is the one there at Despotovic's, on the Podovice around Prijepolje or around Baja Basta, on Bobija near Ljubovia. You know, I've gone along and across, and probably you, all of Serbia, and even in that period when the most cattle should be on the pasture, believe me, there's an Uvec around the cave, if you find three, four herds, where the most cattle should be, and he has to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65111	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65112	Mr. Chairman, Article 106. I've only been in the Assembly once since there's a multi-party assembly seen a worse thing in the Assembly than today, and that was, if you remember, when Pop-Lazic's shoe was shot by the chairman. I'm begging... Nemanja Sarovic: What is it now? Marian dumped his card from here. Nemanja Sarovic: He shot the chairman? As he went to the chairman, I thought he'd get hit. What he did... Please, I don't plead for anything, but it can't pass without being sanctioned by business. I implore you, Mr. Chairman, that as chairman of this action you will respond and sentence, so the matter will be resolved where it should be resolved. But this is no easier offense than anyone you give a warning to. Therefore, it cannot go unpunished, for you will, without need, hurt the Rules of Procedure and it will be severe. And secondly, I really don't want to sit in the assembly where my colleagues are going to behave like that. Tomorrow we're gonna fight each other again or something, and we're gonna fight here out of nothing, because someone's mad about something or I don't know why. Really, this is what I'm saying, if my own brother were my own brother, I'd say the same thing, but I don't think this is right. This is not appropriate to the Assembly, in any case. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: And what? Well, he was kicking a card here and acting like he was on the street. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: And who? ) Well, Marijan Rističević. So, were you blind?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65113	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Thank you for your suggestions and suggestions. I am used, as my colleagues here chair, to have a high threshold of tolerance and in the interests of the Assembly and the MPs, the greatest interest is to work and discuss laws and to bring as many legal solutions to the benefit of Serbian citizens, and current anxiety, or anything, we will sort of overcome. Don't worry about me. I didn't get scared of any of the previous ones, they bounced off somehow within two feet of me. Everything's under control. Let's move on. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Borisav Kovacevic: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65114	Chairman, Article 27. Of course, I'm not one of those people who likes any kind of anxiety, but I don't like it when any anxiety causes even more serious anxiety. So, I think you've responded adequately, in accordance with your way of running the session, so there's really no reason for this situation to expand further, talk and fully support it, but I'd also ask you to explain to your colleagues that there's no reason to go past the moment when they have the word, that there's a microphone on there, that they continue loudly to distract us from following what you're saying. So, what anyone does with their credit card, this credit card, it's his personal business. So, I think the card is just like the SRS MP once asked for a word, trying to insert his credit card, and apparently there was no credit card, so our colleague has the right to do whatever he wants with his credit card. I really thank you for one understanding. Looks like it's a weird day today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65115	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. You've brought a little spirit and humor into this whole situation. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jorge Komlenski: No. Thank you very much. We're moving on with our work. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65116	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia hastened steps forward towards a new, safe, certain future, the future of a certain future that this government and SNS will leave for our children and our descendants. The better quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is in the focus of the work of this government, in the focus of the work of the SNS and in the first place in the focus of our President Aleksandr Vukic. The government and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs have provided a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and we of the SNS consider it both significant, because sustainability and pension security are also an improvement in the quality of life and improvement of pensioners' standards, which include 24% of the population, and how significant for this government, SNS and our President Alexander Vukic. What happened by 2012? The economy destroyed, the factories robbed, sold out, 600,000 people on the street, unemployment never higher, in the budget money to pay for barely one half of the pension. In 2014, brave, or then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic took the brave, but only possible, realistic and safe in terms of a better future, fiscal consolidation measures, which led to the payment of safe and safe pensions today. But there's something else I have to say. And during the fiscal consolidation measure, these difficult and painful measures, 60% of pensioners, those with lowest incomes, were not covered by pension cuts. Thus, at that time, the government, whose prime minister was then Alexander Vukic, led a responsible economic but responsible social policy. I also have to point out that 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 were an increase in pensions, but also one-off payments, at 5,000 dinars in 2016 and 2017, 3,000 dinars in 2018 and now, by decision of the National Assembly, we again gave pensioners one-off aid of 5,000 dinars during this year. What I particularly want to highlight as the quality of the law, the amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, is that from 1 January 2020, pensions will be calculated in a different way. What we want to send as a message to the pensioners is that their pensions will be 5.4% higher, that they will increase year by year, in line with economic growth and, of course, by the Swiss model, by the formula that you have foreseen by law. Also, as far as this law is concerned, I would like to point out that the Government has come in a responsible manner to amend and supplement this law just as regards increasing the percentages of persons who have the right to obtain an old and early retirement, and who have so far not. They are, for example. in the area of social protection, family accommodation contracts, and that service is provided by foster parents. There are people who have a contract on occasional and temporary jobs. There are individuals who have copyright contracts. There are persons who have worked or worked in youth cooperatives. Also, I would like to point out that these amendments and amendments to the laws have led to an agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in a work relating to the equalisation of out-of-marriage and marriage partners, i.e. the legal possibility that out-of-marriage partners can also inherit a family pension. Of course, I also want to say that next year's average pension will be 235 euros, compared to 190 euros, as it was in 2010. The pathological hatred of death promoted as its policy Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, those who robbed Serbian citizens by 100 billion euros, those who put on the cover workers who go to work camps, or concentration camps and resist bayonets in President Aleksandr Vukic, is the past. They will be wiped out and sent to a historic dump by Serbian citizens because they are a common human den and ordinary moral creatures. In Serbia, it will win life, it will win decency in Serbia, it will win work, diligence and responsibility in Serbia. It's a policy represented by Aleksandar Vukic, and that's why she has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65117	Thank you. The word now has the People's MP Petar Jojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in the sense of Article 204 I would like to ask a specific question to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor. The reason for such a question is precisely a photograph published in the daily newspaper, and in the first row published by the newspaper "Today". The photograph shows the president of the Republic of Serbia with automatic weapons pointed at him. I ask a parliamentary question – is it a professional or criminal responsibility for whoever came up with this? In view of the provisions of Article 138. The criminal code, it is a threat to security, and this article is prescribed in paragraph 2 – who makes the act of the first article more than one person or if the act has caused public harassment, it is precisely public harassment, harassment of citizens, and the legislator has predicted that punishment can be imposed from three months to three years. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at and interpret the provisions of Article 3, which is prescribed by the following - who shall do the work referred to in Article 1 to the President of the Republic, the MP, the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the Judge of the Constitutional Court, the Judge, the Public Prosecutor, the Deputy Prosecutor, the Attorney, the Police Officer and the person who performs matters of public importance, the perpetrator will be punished for up to five years. I ask the question to the Republic Public Prosecutor and Minister of the Interior, specifically, which measures are taken, procedurally, according to these idea makers who, as "political" writes on the first page today – Aleksandar Vukic at gunpoint... This, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it had been done in some other countries with a developed legal system and a more orderly one, than we have here, would have been the DA, the investigative judge and the police taking steps and already someone would have found themselves in the chair of responsibility. I ask the question exactly – what did the Republic Prosecutor and the Ministry of the Interior do, as law enforcement bodies, in particular, and what is the intention of this ideologist here, and this intention was not intended to protect the state of Serbia, protect the state order, protect the constitutional order and protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65119	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. Now you have the word in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65120	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to direct my presentation to two points of the agenda. This is the tax proposed within the meaning of that law and on administrative fees. I'm sorry that there's no finance minister here today, because he's well aware of some things I'd like to talk about and they're about taxes and it's about budgeting. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act. I ask the question - why did the Proposer at this point propose this law that has a cosmetic effect and is it in the function of next year's elections, which would be a political demagogy and the dizziness of citizens and MPs, because the financial effect of this law is zero? It does not matter whether the tax return is personally filed by the taxpayer or by the public register or by the cadastre, because the financial effect is the same, but it is of the importance that this law cancels and does nothing to collect one-off tax amounts owed by large taxpayers, which is hundreds of millions of dinars. The question arises – why does the proposer draw the public's attention from the burning issue of large tax debtors, which protects these debtors and enables you to gain great wealth in the event of the bankruptcy of large taxpayers, which cannot be charged, and the damage to the budget is great, because the tax is unpayable and, above all, by such behaviour, by the proposal of such a law, protects large taxpayers? I ask the Minister of Finance to answer my question today – who are the big tax debtors? Their list must be published once a year by law, and I think it should be published twice a year, because it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance, Mr. Mal, because he worked at the Privatisation Agency. I will draw attention and ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what has the government done to resolve the issue and collect the damage caused by 24 harmful privatisations? I will mention only some of them: "Sartid" is a million and 700m euros; "Azotara Pancevo" 80m; "Luka Belgrade" is a 50m-euro damage; "Gallenika" is 34m euros; "C market" has damaged 29m euros; "Keramika Kanjiza" is 15m euros. Import sugar. Ten thousand helmets were imported sugar, repacked and exported, as if it were produced in Serbia, which damaged sugar producers in the Republic of Serbia, and the importer received five sugarcanes for 30 euros. He was supposed to be dressed up and taken away from him everything he gained, and he got five sugars thanks to the then government and then the DOS government, which enabled him to do so. Tanjug is damaged by 4.5m euros. The National Savings Bank for sevenm euros. Now I'd like to say something. The greatest crime of deep roots - the availability of state agricultural land. In the process of issuing state agricultural land for use and renting to the tenants, the agricultural gang is the government. So there's a farming gang. Since 2001, as the DOS came to power to this day, we have repeatedly asked parliamentary questions, MPs from the SRS, ministers and the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, six months I've been waiting for an answer - how many states does Serbia have of state agricultural land, who are the tenants and whether they paid or not? However, someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia protects tycoons that in an organized, criminal manner come to the lease of state agricultural land, but most of them do not carry out their obligations under contracts, payment of money for use is not done so that the state land becomes a milk cow and is used only by tycoons. From the tycoon and that gang, citizens as individual agricultural producers who are interested in obtaining this land in the lease can't get a single hectare, because there's an organized gang of organised crime here. What are they doing? They report for bids and those who don't even have a bug, then give up the bidding, but that's why the tycoons are allowed to rent three, four thousand acres, but they didn't pay even 30%. As he came to the DOS power, as the state land was leased, large crime of deep roots began, and it is at the gang's place along with those who betray and those who hire, and the Republic's budget suffers hundreds and hundreds of millions of dinars. As far as court fees are concerned, I have to say that it is not clear why no comparative analysis has been given in court taxis. It was necessary to see how the proposer came to the proposal to determine such large and administrative fees in the law. What I must say is that it is positive that administrative fees will not be charged in the future on the basis of sublegal acts, i.e. contracts, regulations, regulations, but are united by one single law. However, the only thing I can see is that this allows citizens to do certain tasks in a more efficient way and not to be exposed to the various sublaws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65121	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Thanks for the exposure. Now the word is Professor Marko Atlagic. Professor Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65122	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, I am pleased to see you very often in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This speaks of your self-produced work and your relationship to this high house, as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, we have before us a set of laws with the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. That's two sets of measures under these laws. One set of measures is aimed at further reducing the burden on earnings, to boost the growth of new employment, and this is one of the strategic objectives not only of these, but also of the former government, or one of the SNS programming tasks. In a set of laws that today are ahead of us to abolish the part of the PIO contribution to the burden of employers of 0.5%. Thus, the rate is reduced from 12 to 11.5% and in the Law on Income Tax, citizens increase the untaxable share from 15,300 dinars to 16.300 dinars. The two measures together allow the burden on earnings to be reduced from 62% this year to 61% since 1 January of the year 2020 and the process, honourable MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be continued not only in 2020, but in 2021 and 2022 years to come. The second set of measures is direct tax incentives aimed at new employment and are related to reducing contributions. Dear People's MPs, a former government decorated in today's Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and others did not take care of the employment of our citizens. They had an unemployment rate of 25.6% in 2012, and instead of hiring citizens they fired between 500 and 600,000 workers from work, and the SNS authorities headed by the party president and the government's current president, Mr. Vucic, reduced unemployment to 9.5% with a tendency to further reduce the unemployment rate. The Alliance for Serbia daily does everything to stop works in all the cities of the Republic of Serbia. You, respected citizens, are witnessing it. That's how they were against revitalization of Jellyzara Smederevo. Remember the former prime minister, Mr. Zivkovic, who is not here, but on the street to scream, who suggested that Jellyzar be shut down and that we send the workers home. It's their program. They were against the revitalisation of RTV Bor, against the construction of Beograd on Water, imagine, against the restoration of the National Museum, against the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art, against the revitalisation of the Square of the Republic, against the construction of hundreds of factories throughout the Republic of Serbia and against strengthening and equipping our defence forces. Why? Why, ask yourself, respected citizens of Serbia, why are they against strengthening and equipping our defence forces? They were against strengthening, and today they are against strengthening and equipping our militia, against building hundreds of schools, hospitals and health homes, against building highways, national, regional roads and bridges, against reconstructing streets and facades on buildings, against military neutrality and independence of our country. Right, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? They are against subsidies to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this high house, they were against it. In one word, respected citizens, against the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. Can you imagine, respected citizens of the former University of Belgrade rector, Prof. Dr. Marija Bogdanović, visiting the N1 CIA together with academic Todorović Dusan, a known head of earthquake, said, quote – we do not burden them with tons of concrete. They are against the country's economic progress. This Mr. Todorovic, who appears daily with various insults, an academic, said, has on his tweet, quote – Atlagic explains that I shake my head when SNS and Vukic are mentioned. It fits – it's possible, it's good that we're still normal. What's wrong with you, Mr. Academyman? You wouldn't happen to have a small salary, would you, Mr. Academia? You, Mr. Professor, are an academic to Todorovic, driven away from Traffic College as an unemployed. You, Mr. Todorovic, were one of the first fighters on October 5th when the second biggest blow in the parliamentary life of the Republic of Serbia, a blow to this state and parliamentaryism. You, Mr. Academymen, fled to your bosses in the U.S. during the bombing. When it stopped, you came back. You've been legally admitted to college. Dear citizens, you know who he took to college? I see you people know that. No one but Serbia's Turajlic. Against the law, against the opinion of the Scientific Council, etc. So, so much for Mr. Todorovic, called a headache, out of hatred. Those from the Alliance for Serbia show their hatred for the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS and for miracles, the Serbian Orthodox Church. One of their champions, Dr 6789, insulted the Serbian Orthodox Church on 25 November 2019 in the most primitive way, because he also said in street demonstrations, quote -- that the Serbian Orthodox Church is trading in medals, finished quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia have not said a single communist official to the Serbian Orthodox Church during the ICTY, and as far as I know, a historian by his profession is no official in Serbia's history. For them, nothing is sacred, church, state, army, police, or citizens. Their hatred for President Vukic and his family has changed right, respected citizens, madness. So Bosko Obradović said on November 19th, 2019, quote – Vukic must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States in order to survive at all. That's why now is the time to intensify all attacks from all weapons, complete quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is this Ljotic-style? Is this Fascism style? The President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic answers their insults, lies, inventions and threats, I quote – only you point a sniper at me, and I will tip the pen on the map of Serbia for one of the factories, complete the quote. Is it true that the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Of course it's true. I especially appeal to "N1" TV and Nova, which daily spinning, lying, inventing about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his family, closest associates, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Aleksandr Vulin, Sinisha Malo, satanicize not only them, but also the state bodies that they represent you see every day and night, from time to time, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I claim, and you know it, respected citizens, that this violates our country's economic defence capacity. You from "N1" I invite you, turn to professionalism and journalistic code and good journalistic tradition. All the pressures on our country and the accusations that come from different sides from outside and inside, domestic NATO dusters, the honourable MPs speak of the regularity and strength of Serbian political independence and independence that our country's president, Aleksandar Vukic, has. Dear citizens, that's why it's not weird what I'm about to say. I've been doing graphics and research for years, in 10 cities of the Republic of Serbia, there are graphs of citizens' messages of dozens, the president of the state, and I quote -- the more slander and lies, the more and more Vucic we prefer, the more and more the quote is finished. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, me and my colleagues will vote for this set of laws in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65123	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65124	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs and citizens of Serbia, the budget we adopted the other day for 2020 is a budget that certainly aims to raise the standard of living of Serbian citizens, but also aims to increase Serbia's investment, i.e. economic growth by 4%, which is a very high percentage since we know that other countries in the environment have a lower growth in economic development. However, today we have a set of laws on the agenda which are only an integral part, I can say freely, budgets and which in certain ways facilitate the implementation of the 2020 budget. Among other things, today's draft law on amendments to the Law on PIO. Those who criticise pension increases today should remember, and I will in one particular case remind them, in 2011, in the company where I worked, JP "Resavica" or dinar was not paid for contributions to PIO. So 19 months of miners working without payment of contributions to PIO. Over the next few years, when they got a pension condition, they couldn't get that right, because the contribution wasn't paid. Where there was a yellow company, there was nothing left but desolation. However, our President Aleksandar Vucic and our Government have all the problems they have left behind, and my God, too many, have managed to overcome them in a very efficient way, and thus these contributions. About two billion left a debt and managed to solve it, so all the miners could retire when they had a condition. Today, the pension would only be a mental noun, fortunately in 2014, who dares and can, and that was our President Aleksandar Vucic who came into play and started with a restrictive financial policy that today produced fruit. Today, in 2012, budget donations were 48.2% for pension payments, today they are 22.5%, which is 2.8% of GDP. In 2017, the revenue from the contribution to PIO is 397 billion, today in 2019 is 476 billion, making up 8.8% of GDP. In 2018 more than in 2017, 24 billion were paid, and in 2019 39.2 billion were paid than in 2018. For these two years, 2018, 2019, 63.2 billion dinars were paid more than before. What we can also praise our government for which it really needs to be proud is that the total contribution of the pensioners to GDP has been reduced from 10.7 in 2018 to 10.5% in this year, and we know that GDP growth in the third quarter of this year is over 4%. The pensioners understood very well that nothing overnight could be resolved, and so they were on the side of our President Aleksandr Vukic when he decided in 2014 to take restrictive policy measures. But I can't look back today without looking at the current political situation, especially these 1 out of 5 million leaders, who pointed a gun at our president, I don't know if they're aware that they're pointing a gun at Serbia's country, and they're citizens of this country themselves. They're probably not aware that they're pointing a gun at schools where children are educated, against health care facilities where they're being treated. All of this today would not be if our President Aleksandar Vukic had not taken up the strength and launched reforms both in health and education, and in industry, and today we are leaders in investment and today Serbia can boast that over 2,380,000,000 foreign direct investments are in our country. However, nothing is sacred to them and they can only continue to behave like this and the worse they are, the SNS and our president, our government, will be better at achieving their results. In voting day, I will support this set of laws that are on the agenda today, as well as my SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65125	Thank you, Mrs. Kostic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65126	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with associates, the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance will provide tax incentives for new employment, including employment of young people who are just entering the labour market. I'd like to discuss the importance of determining who can pay a flat tax and who can't. It is important to test independence to determine whether the entrepreneur is an employee or an independent service provider and whether he can be taxed on a flat-rate basis. A test containing a list of nine criteria, which will determine whether an entrepreneur is making an income from an independent activity or the income of a natural person. In the event that the undertaking fulfils at least five criteria, it will be considered not to be independent, and the compensation it makes will be taxed as other income in accordance with Article 85. Income tax law, and such compensation will be charged with contributions to PIO at 26%. The government has worked on all these solutions, of course, with representatives of the IT community for a year. Since the bill does not exclude working with an ino client, the only correct alternative remains to open up the company's representation in Serbia. Another alternative for most entrepreneurs who do not meet the conditions will be to open their stock companies and to self-employment, thus losing the sense of stand-alones and the basic goal of all of this is to reduce the grey economy. What exactly do the regulations bring to the cobwebs, and what do they do to the companies that hire them? Companies that increase the number of employees and employ non-working persons during 2019 will be exempt from paying 70% of the income tax and contributions to them during 2020, 65% of 2021 and 60% of 2022. The measure will also apply to the employment of the unemployed, regardless of whether they are registered with the National Employment Service, whether they are students or quitters. Serbia is currently one of the leading countries in the number of refrigerators and their number is in constant growth. On the other hand, the announced measures could have the most impact on the IT sector, as IT companies employ a lot of cobwebs and this way of taxation is an incentive to the entire branch. We're the first country to stand in the way of hacking income tax. A large number of developed countries have laws that prevent employment under the mask of independent perpetrators. Serbia is increasingly stable in macroeconomic terms and since the bill does not exclude working with an ino client, the only correct alternative is for companies to open their representations in Serbia. Another alternative, for most entrepreneurs who do not meet the conditions, will be to open up their shareholders' society. I would also like to say something about the newspaper of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which, in addition to facilitating communication and effective behaviour in the tax procedure, can be delivered by email via the portal. The law provides that taxpayers cannot store and store goods or operate in areas outside the control of tax authorities. There were those who were hiding their supplies and business premises and were thus unfair to both the state and there was unfair competition for them. It's all about curbing the gray economy. It is also provided for which data from the bank's client should be delivered at the request of the tax administration in electronic form. Everything must be transparent, in which cases they should block the account and transactions of clients, except those directed towards the tax administration. For more than 15 years, I've worked in banking with the economy, and I know all the machinations individuals are willing to do, just so they don't pay taxes or credit obligations. One company gets thrown into bankruptcy and with the money allocated to black, they open up another company and so on. Particular attention should be paid to independent trade activities, which pass from ownership, such as father to adult children, wife, second cousins, and the bank and state cannot collect their claims from them. They're technically legally always covered, but what about the essence. They remain in debt to God and to the people and continue in their old ways, with a new store until the whole family is constructed. A small change in company name, a small change in ownership, because everything remains in the family, the same goods are sold and the same recipe is, is due to the point where they can't repay debts, they go into blockade, they remain in debt to the state, suppliers, banks, and the same procedure again. That is why it is very important, which increases control and precise criminal penalties according to the amendments to the law, which I would personally like to see even more stringent. On the basis of the above, I believe that the necessary paper relating to the FIB cannot be assigned to an entrepreneur with a commitment on the basis of public income. The tax administration may also impose a temporary ban on the registration of shares in another legal entity if it has a share greater than 5% if it has unsettled obligations with another economic operator. This simplification of tax procedures and operational activities is aimed at curbing the grey economy and improving tax collection, which aims at and stability of public finances. All this is in line with the action plan for the transformation of the tax administration programme 2018 at 2023. These changes will not contribute to the opening of a larger number of companies, but will indirectly affect improving business conditions, strengthening legal certainty and increasing competition. All these laws aim to increase income and better control and to better collect the same conditions for all. Business discipline is increasing and fairer society is creating. All in order for the 2021 budget to be even more ambitious. I am sorry that Minister Sinisha Mali is not here, whom I would like to congratulate on the 2020 budget. I hope that's why in 2021 the budget will be even better thanks to these changes in these laws that I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65127	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Mrs Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65128	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, I will talk today about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. However, before I begin to explain this law, I have to express great concern, fear, mistrust, I simply don't know what to say, because when I think of the front page of "Nin", I don't feel well. Is it possible for someone in the 21st century to point a sniper at the president of the Republic and Mr. Dodik, two of the greatest Serbs, patriots? It's embarrassing, people. It's a shame. There is great concern in Serbia. If that's how you mark the target, so what am I going to say about myself, what will my colleagues say? Is there any way I can get out on the street without missing something? We may be out of line sometimes, but the goal is a political option, I have my own, someone has mine. If I've ever offended anyone, I apologize. I've never told anyone anything like you're a k, so there's a sequel, so we're gonna hang you, so we're gonna rape you. I think it's the end of such a scandalous behavior. I think the judicial authorities should respond immediately. So much for that. The whole public has risen, whether it's a position or an opposition. A point on such morbid texts and photographs. As far as the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is concerned, when I talk about pensioners, I always speak with a lot of love, these are the people who created our country, not only the pensioners, but before them and before them, and today we continue for our future children, but have borne the greatest burden in 2014, without words. Great patriots, people who understand what it means to have no, because if their pension had not been reduced as much as it was in 2014, 2015 and 2016, it would have been bankruptcy in 2012. Why? Because from 2000 to 2012 a pension fund was devastationed. In 2008, 400,000 people were fired, which means a million hungry people, so who's going to pay the pension fund? With what? People don't work. In 2012, there was no bankruptcy and slowly, slowly, difficult reforms the country has drawn out of the crisis. That's how it works. That's how the responsible government works. What happens then? Is that the kind of man with the sniper? Shame on one in the Republic of Serbia. Enough with that. If we have to, we'll all get out of here. So what did we do? I wish every man in this world only well. One is a political option, and the other is to want someone dead. As far as pensioners are concerned, there are 1,700,000 in Serbia, employed by 2,000,300 people. There was once a relationship of employees to pensioners 3:1, unfortunately, this has been destroyed for generations, but today it is much better. Of those 400,000 fired in 2008 we hired 250,000 people. Here, yesterday we saw a factory open in Kragujevac. It was opened by our Chinese friends. 192 people will be employed only in the first quarter. In a few years, 1,000 people will be employed and the historic unemployment minimum was released on the news yesterday – 9.5% alone. That's how it works. As far as pensioners are concerned, their perseverance and perseverance, we have been rewarding them for three years, and they will be better every year. You know why? We're preventing a gray economy, one at a time. Under two, inflation is stable – 2%. Let's just remember in 2012, minus 3.5% of GDP, and today plus 3.5%. That's how the responsible government works. That's how we're gonna keep doing it. Their pensions are growing slowly. Someone says: Social assistance is given to them. It's not social aid, a gift to the pensioners, that they can afford something nice. And as of January 1st, they have a 5.4% pension increase in the Swiss model, depending on inflation, GDP and the consumer basket. As far as this law is concerned, there are newspapers that I like very much, which is to equalise the rights of marriage and the extramarital community. Namely, every person whose spouse has passed away has the right, whether he is married or not, to get a pension, if he has lived with him for three years, with two witnesses if he is in an extramarital community and, of course, if he has a child with his spouse. Then, if a military person gets hurt, the spouse of a military person, whether they're three years or not, without being in an out-of-marriage or marriage community, means, however, they're going to get a well-deserved pension. There's a lot new here. The point of this whole story is, since the surplus in the budget was 66 billion, we always have money for our pensioners. As far as I'm concerned, it's always the first increase in pensioners and then they pay us. Their pensions have already been increased, and they will be increased every year for as long as it takes and as much as we can give them. What matters is stabilization. The investment will be much more than last year. Last year, foreign direct investment was 2.3 billion. It is planned to be at least 2.6 to 3 billion next year. That way, by hiring us, we fill the budget, and that's how we increase pensions. All the best for the pensioners. The law has a lot of points, among other things, may just point out that their pension increases depend on economic opportunities. I'm sure we'll all always vote here to raise our pensions first, then pay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65129	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65130	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in 2014, we found ourselves in a situation where we were forced to apply heavy fiscal consolidation measures, which we knew were not popular, but we decided to take such a step. Why did we choose such a step? Because by 2012, the government had left us with one disastrous situation throughout Serbia and left us with a budget that was completely devastationed. In 2012, when the SNS took over, we didn't know if we would have any money for salaries and pensions at all. Today we have money for regular payouts and pensions, we also have money in the budget and for their increase. By 2012 and that year when the SNS took over, we found a 26% unemployment rate. Today we try to keep it below 10%. At that time, factories were sold into devastation, privatised jobs were shut down, and today we are opening new factories, opening new jobs, and we can boast that Serbia is the first to attract foreign direct investment. There were no miles of highways then, and at the moment when we're talking about it, 320 kilometers of new highways were done. But what are we witnessing today? Last night on TV N1 a question was asked – where do so many affairs in Serbia come from? It is those who are trying to just carry over the affairs that the Alliance for Serbia and the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia are generating daily, they are asking the question. Every day they place lies, fictions, construct affairs, without any evidence, and without any argument, but it doesn't matter to them, it's only important to them that it revolves on their channels. We were talking about the Krusik affair, the affair where the alarmer was invented. How many times do we have to say why Aleksandar Obradovic is not an alarmer? Here, I'll do it again. Because he did not address the employer because he did not address the authorised state authority to request alarm status and because he did not properly alert the public, although he wanted to do so, and this refers to the part in which he was presenting the secret information from "Kruik". All this was made up just to put pressure on Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. As far as his degree is concerned, pressure is also being placed on one of the ministers in the government. Then we have the next affair, because they're so used to it, they're going out of the affair into an affair, and that's how they deceive the public. We're having another affair, an affair with a Ph.D. with Cynthia Malo, and a purely political decision from Belgrade University, we're pressing on another minister in the government, and we're pressing on the university. I don't know if we've ever seen a university rector take such an open stand, a political stance, and side with the opposition he's allowed to even crucify tents in the rectory building. All these affairs are being constructed for assaulting Alexander Vukic, because they want to do political damage to Alexander Vukic, who is being targeted at the head, but other than drawing a target on his forehead, they then put it on the front page. Here's what that front page looks like. So, we're being accused of censorship, and I'm asking for this to zoom in so that it can be seen, my colleagues have already talked about it, but they're accusing us of censorship. Is this the censorship we're talking about? Does this picture mean that we in SNS call to say that something is written, that something isn't written, what's the front page, etc? This is the real example of that censorship they're talking about. The NIN editor-in-chief says no one called me and no one has to call me, but I still think it's censorship. So how's censorship if I admit that no one called him? And what does that statement mean? We pulled it from the cover? I printed this front page of NIN off the Internet today. So they didn't pull back. I am telling you all this because I want to tell you that we are actually here dealing with people who want to harm the Republic of Serbia, who want to harm the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to interfere with the quality of their work, what they are doing and to run a dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic, just because they have no arguments to kill all the results of the government that they have achieved, and since 2012, and when Aleksandar Vukic was prime minister, and now, when he is President of the Republic. Therefore, what I want to say is that Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government have strong and unreserved support for the SNS parliamentary group and the same support will also have proposals for the laws that are before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65131	Thank you. The word is Studenka Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65132	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, as counterpart Zaric Kovacevic mentioned at the beginning of her 2014 presentation, I will continue in favour of reminding ourselves of what happened in 2014. When the budget deficit was high and the general government debt was around 70% of GDP, there were major fiscal challenges before Serbia, precisely in terms of reducing the deficit and stabilising the public debt. In that situation, a reduction in wages and pensions was necessary. International experience shows that some countries that were in similar situations have reduced wages at a rate of 15% to 30% and pensions to up to 12%. We, for God's sake, were in a slightly more favourable position, but the fact that we came to this situation solely because of the irresponsibility of our predecessors who in 2008, without any economic justification, increased pensions by 20%. In addition to the fiscal consolidation measure, we have also taken measures to make public enterprises more profitable, to reduce the grey economy, to streamline public sector employees and many other measures. If the dossage had lasted longer, these measures wouldn't have been enough either. However, if you remember, Vucic as the then prime minister of the government said: firstly, legislative reforms and an investment environment, the second is to solve the company's problem of restructuring and finding strategic partners, the third is to reform public enterprises that will be disastrously difficult, as he then announced, the fourth is to fight the gray economy, the fifth are fiscal consolidation measures and the sixth reform of the administration. It could not be determined which of these measures was more difficult. Among other things, the Law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of earnings and other permanent incomes from public beneficiaries was adopted in 2014 as one of the mechanisms for implementing the fiscal consolidation measures. A certain level of stability of public finances has been achieved by reducing this expenditure in the state budget and the country's sunflower has been stopped. Immediately thereafter, conditions for economic recovery and long-term sustainable development were created. Today, just five years later, thanks to responsibility, hard work and good economic policy, we adopted a budget for 2020 which, without a doubt and by the assessment of all relevant factors, is developed in each segment. Serbia has achieved excellent results so far when it comes to building infrastructure and creating new jobs, and with this practice continues in the future. The following year, not only will it bring more income to citizens, but every division in the republican budget is marked by increased separations. The largest separation is for the health sector. Compared to the past year, the health budget has increased by as much as 73%, which has increased the treatment of chronic diseases by 25%. The practice of reconstruction schools continues. The capital investment envisioned will be worth a record 260 billion. We are expected to build the Moravsky and Fruskogorski corridor, more highways, fast traffic, high-speed railways, etc. We are the first government to invest significantly in culture. In addition to the museums, which we have put into operation, 2.4 billion dinars will be invested in the modernisation of infrastructure next year, and we will build a concert hall worth over 14 billion. It's going to be invested in every sector, but what's most important, we're spending what we've earned. We've balanced our expenditures and incomes. The economy is recording growth and we are recording the lowest unemployment rate since 1995 and it is now below 10%, and in a few years it is expected to be below 8.5%. At the end of my address, I must point out that I am particularly pleased with the announcement by President Vukic that he will soon focus on investments in eastern Serbia. Eastern Serbia is looking forward to this announcement in the years ahead of us through concrete development projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65133	Thank you. The word is Nevenko Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65134	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, I will first look back at reducing the tax burden of pension and disability insurance on the employer's burden from 62%, as far as it was, 61%, how much this burden will be in next year, with a tendency to further decrease in the coming period. Any reduction in the burden on the economy is of importance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which have exceptional importance for the economy of a country and for the private sector, where I come from. Namely, employers, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, face countless problems in our areas. They are forced to fight and swim in the tumultuous waters of businesses, very often with outdated equipment, with a lack of financial resources, have a problem with labour as well. In the absence of the possibility of paying enough and retaining quality experts, which are drivers of the development of one economic operator, lose the race with competition, become uncompetitive and lagging behind in development. Therefore, any reduction in burden leaves room for this savings to be directed towards human resources, which are the driver, i.e. the development and progress of each company. It is clear that the reduction in tax burden reduces revenues in the budget, but by stimulating employment and strengthening the private sector, real conditions are created for poverty reduction, so there will be fewer allocations for social giving. Another stimulating measure that is very important is tax relief for new employment, therefore, vomiting or refund of contributions of up to 75%, depending on the number of newly employed persons, which has been in force for several years, and now, here, we see that it continues in 2020. All these measures will continue to deliver positive results at the state level and that's good for everyone. What bothers me in particular are small, undeveloped and devastated municipalities, just like my Bosilegrad municipality, which belongs to the fourth group of the most underdeveloped and devastated, where these measures are good, but not enough. In particular, my poor municipality is located in the far undeveloped south of Serbia, and due to its specific geographical location, distance from the roads, highways and railways, it faces huge problems. She lost a third of the population due to economic collapse, and the wave of migration is on fire and galloping a demographic image is alarming. As such, our community is not interested in investors. Since 2016, we've had two serious investors. After a short time, they left our municipality and moved production to neighboring municipalities. The reason for this is a lot, says too far away, too much business costs. The municipality itself has no potential to fight the challenges that have met it. What could be done is a further stimulating reduction of the tax burden of employment in devasted municipalities, i.e. the same awareness of the minimum, which would encourage investors to see the interests and invest their money in just such devastated municipalities. As I said, reducing the inflow on this basis will be compensated by reducing the need for social benefits for the poor. It's the only way we can keep small places and keep the few people who have stayed to live in those areas, and it's the only way we can turn those small places into sustainable systems where local economy will be a carrier of sustainability, not a burden on the state budget. Due to the positive effects resulting from the application of the proposed laws, I will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65135	Thank you, Mrs. Costadinova. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65136	Dear Chairman, Minister Djordjevic and his associates, today we are discussing a set of laws that will regulate taxes and contribute to both citizens' income and amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. These are concrete measures, which are proposed to reduce unemployment, although yesterday we could hear from President Aleksandr Vukic that unemployment is already single-digit today and is 9.5%. At this time, one of the essential measures of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, when the employer is exempt from the obligation to pay contributions for compulsory pension and disability insurance, and this: from 100% for earnings paid from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020, and 95% for persons employed from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021, and 85% for employees from 1 January 2022 until 31 December 2022. Of course, this refers to the number of qualified newly employed persons by whom the number of employees was reduced compared to 31 December in the year in which the performance began. This kind of relief cannot be achieved by state authorities and organisations, i.e. Budgetary users. The basis for the adoption of this law is to ensure conditions for implementing a comprehensive reform of the business environment, as well as to create legal assumptions for the inflow of investment, employment and economic growth, as well as to allow for more favourable conditions for redundancy of economic operators. The bill proposes a reduced rate of contribution for pension and disability insurance from 26% to 25.5%, which basically means that the employer is free to pay part of the contribution that is due and paid on the employer's burden, which is a profit of 0.5%, thus contributing to the employer's burden is paid by 11.5%, while the current rate is 12%. In order to encourage employment, it is also proposed to introduce new incentives for employers, i.e. Newly founded companies. It is also proposed to extend the existing incentives for the employment of new persons in the form of the right to return of part of the paid contribution from 65% to 75%. The application of these laws is possible because financial stability has been achieved in Serbia, stable growth, an increase in investments that today are 33% higher than in 2018. The conditions of employers' engagement are therefore favourable for foreign investors, as well as for domestic investors. In the next period, a realistic reduction in the tax and contribution to the burden of employers, as well as a reduction in the unemployment rate, can be expected. In the end, just a word, two on the cover of "Nina", that embarrassing side we could all see, and after that scandalous page came out a white page, allegedly censored by the editor-in-chief who made such a statement. I call on the economic expert, Milan Culibrk, to resign, as he has already said he will do so when the average salary of 500 euros is in Serbia. But I hope he forgot it when he said it. In Voting Day, I call on my fellow MPs to pass these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65137	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65138	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's day 333 that MPs of the opposition don't come to work for which they receive their salary neatly. The previous speakers and the authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group gave all those arguments in the discussion so far why we should adopt the proposed act. In the debate so far, we have heard all of the results that the Serbian government, led by SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, have achieved in previous work, especially when it comes to results in the economic field and when it comes to the record in the unemployment rate, when it comes to the inflow of foreign investment, the record charge of taxes, the increase in wages and pensions and all other results that are undeniable. When I say indisputable, they are not tried to challenge the professional public or the opposition. But if they can't argue with the results, then they're dealing with making up affairs. Then we have every day, but literally every day a new affair in their media, without any evidence, without any fact, without any argument to support such an argument. Of course, they have their own media, so it's been spinning on their media all day. But the chairman, what is very important, the daily "Informer" published an audio recording of reporters' talks "Informer" and that of Miroslav Aleksic. Remember that Miroslav Aleksic, where we already went public several times with information that he sold his party to Vuk Jeremic? Now, this Miroslav Aleksic, a few days ago, lied facelessly and accused Alexander Vukic, but also his brother, Andrej Vukic, of some alleged affair, brought him into contact with the arrested man over that marijuana, and I think it was "Jovanjica" or something, eyelessly lied to the public, offered no evidence while he was making such shameful accusations, and now we have an interesting situation, so. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, so that the citizens of Serbia know what kind of liars it is. Milica Dakic, a journalist "Informer" says: "Mr. Aleksic, what evidence do you have that Andrej Vukic was the first person whom Koluvija called after he was arrested for marijuana? “ Miroslav Aleksic: “Well, I don’t answer the question ‘Informer’, but I’ll tell you one sentence. All the evidence I have will be very happy to present to the court the moment that Andrej Vukic sues me. “ The journalist goes on, and she says: “You talked to all the media yesterday about this case in order. How did you make accusations without proof? “ Miroslav Aleksic says: “Here, I told you, I will present the evidence in court. “ So there is no evidence or she doesn’t want to tell them. Well, a journalist says: “Why didn’t you give them to the media if you had them? “ Alexic says: “Of course I won’t give it to the media, especially not to you. “ A journalist says: “You don’t want us? Well, we're read by 400,000 people. I'm not asking you as Milica Dakic, I'm asking you on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. “ Alexic says: “I understand that you work for the salary. “ A journalist says: “No, I work for the truth. We all work for pay, but the truth is above pay. "Alexic says, "Serbia is poor if the Informer is fighting for the truth. “ A journalist says: “Absolutely fight, and don’t insult me, but we, Mr. Alexic, answer the question. I ask you for evidence, you make accusations, I ask you for evidence. It's a journalist's job. How can you make public charges and have no evidence? “ Alexic says: “Well, I’m right. “ A journalist says: “You have the right to make accusations without proof? I'm asking you nicely. When he makes such accusations, I guess it's normal to show one piece of evidence, at least, in that sense. “ Alexic says: “You have a bunch of other evidence I talked about yesterday. “ A journalist says: “Great. Speaking of cannabis, I listened to your conference. How do you get along so well in the matter of planting cannabis, the size of a plant, and everything else? You know how well you've described everything, the molding, the height, the age of the plant and so on. How'd you get that kind of knowledge? “ Alexic says: “I don’t understand, but I have eyes, ma’am, and I looked at the photograph. “ A journalist says: “Well, here I have eyes, but I wouldn’t understand myself so well in the planting of cannabis. “ Why did I read all this? Because this is crown proof of what kind of liars we're dealing with here. This is not a lonely example, so this is a whole series of factory affairs that are repeated from day to day. Therefore, the charge is brought, no single evidence shall be provided in that sense. Then you ask them: give one proof of your claims. Then there's no answer. What's he got? He's having new affairs. Then tomorrow a new affair opens up, a new lie to forget that I have no proof of a single claim so far. That's what happened when it came to plagiarism, that's what happened to Krusik, and that's what this latest one is now called an affair. So, all in order to do political damage to Aleksandra Vukic and SNS because they have no argument, no possible evidence of their claims and no way to cope with the results conducted by the Serbian government and Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65139	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65140	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Djordjevic, respected guests from the ministry, respected MPs, I will talk about the amendment and addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The pension system is one of the most complex systems in society. This system provides for the reception of our old citizens to the present and those who will become it in the future. Pension and disability insurance is mandatory in the Republic of Serbia and is based on ongoing funding based on the principle of separation through contributions to pension and disability insurance of current users, thus obtaining the opportunity to exercise their right to their own pension after fulfilling the insurance requirements. From 1945 to 1970, when the age structure was favourable, the population was young, so it was a positive ratio of the number of insurance workers to the users, which is why many favourable solutions were installed in this system - from the conditions for retirement, the method of accounting and the level of retirement. Over time, however, there was a change in the demographic structure of the population. Serbia began to grow old, as well as a decline in employment levels, so this system fell into crisis. The adjustment of the pension system under changed circumstances, and in order to meet the conditions for the long-term sustainability of the system, has been implemented in phases and amendments to the regulations in 2001, 2003, 2005, 2010, 2014 and 2018. The unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners and the constant trend in the deterioration of this relationship has led to deficits in the business of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, so nearly 40% of the obligation to pay pensions touched from the Republic of Serbia's budget. According to the latest data, there were 1,706,189 pensioners in August 2019. In recent years, 85,000 people have been retired annually. Since pensioners account for 24% of Serbia's population, it is clear how important the proposed changes are to improve the economic position of this population category. The successful completion of the fiscal consolidation process created the possibility to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2018, which ceased the validity of the Law on the Temporary Editing of the Ways of the Pension Payment System from 2014. In the context of the bill we are talking about today, the key changes concern, firstly, defining the formula for harmonising pensions. The draft law provides that pensions are to be coordinated according to the so-called so-called ‘retirement’ since 2020. Swiss formula, i.e. that the percentage of pension adjustments is obtained through a formula covering the sum of 50% of the earnings growth for the previous year and 50% of the consumer prices in the same period. As an observed period, June 2018 shall be taken until the first of July 2019. The reason you take these 12 months is because the data of the Republic Statistics Institute is obtained at the earliest 50 days for the last month. Since a new way of calculating pensions will be applied from 01.01.2020, it was not possible to make this projection, therefore a period of 12 months is taken. Secondly, the bill extends the scope of categories that have the right to family pension. The rights of a marriage with an out-of-marriage union shall be equalised, in accordance with Article 62(5). The constitution, which equalises the outside and marriage union. The right to a family pension may be granted by a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner if they are married or an out-of-marriage community for at least three years. This solution removes a great injustice against persons who are usually unable to establish a marriage union for legitimate reasons, but their way of life in no way deviates from a marriage governed by law, and thus the rights of their partners could not be regulated so far. I note that when it comes to 50 or more years of life, only 57,508 people lived in the extramarital community in 2011, representing about 2% of people in that lifetime. Nota Bene, according to this law, a family pension can also be made by a spouse from a divorced brother and an out-of-marriage partner after the end of life in the community and if the court ruling provides them with the right to support, as well as a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner of a professional military person according to rules on the Serbian military who died during the fact that the right to a family pension is gaining, regardless of the completed years of life and provided that he has not remarried. In the end, one happy news. As Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, China's Shinju, has announced, the leading ice lighting company in the automotive industry will open in Nis. The company in Nis should produce lighting for BMW, Audi, Reno, Opel and Foltzvagen. The investment value of this project is 50m euros, and the company plans to employ about 1,000 workers indefinitely, according to the Office for Local Economic Development. Incentive policy measures in terms of subsidies have affected 10,000 people to be hired and paid in Nis so far. In this way, more is allocated to the PIO Fund in terms of contributions, which will make the Republic of Serbia's budget less affected. I would now spend a lot of parliamentary time listing the names of the factories in Nis, so I will not do it so that other colleagues can speak, but let me conclude, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, let them aim with a sniper, and I will paraphrasise his words – we will aim for places where we will build new factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65141	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65142	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, respected citizens, if someone in the future would ask me what this memory is and what is the most impressive impression I have these days from this session when we discussed the proposed laws, believe me, that would be the way we started this session, that is, the information just before that session was announced to the public by the president of the state, and in this distinguished home officially the finance minister at the beginning of the session, which is the information that the unemployment rate in Serbia fell below 10%. Believe me, at least half of us in this room don't remember that once Serbia could be characterized as a country of employees, a country of new factories, or a country where unemployment is not a central topic. Throughout the lifetime of this group of unemployment issues was a central topic in both family and school, on the street and in business and in society at all. Another important thing and other memory, or another significant impression from this session, which I'm sure we'll all take to the future is that after this information has been announced, there has been an unwitting campaign against the state, against the Prime Minister and all, let me say, the governing structures in this country. So then the Prime Minister found himself symbolically on the front page, as the target of one of the most modern sniper rifles, and a group of vandals tried the Ministry of Finance to break the chains and locks and probably as never in history to shut down a Serbian ministry. I don't think that thing ever happened in history. There's no coincidence. Believe me, these two things are also somehow connected. Informing that Serbia has reached a record low unemployment rate and a senseless attack on the state, that is, the president and the government, and that these two things are in correlation. What was the answer of the president and the government? On that threat, the president said that he would aim at a part of Serbia with a pen to open a new factory, i.e. new roads, and the answer of the Ministry of Finance and your ministry, Mr. Djordjevic, is this – a set of laws we are discussing in the last days. These laws will make it easier for these factories to open up and reduce the unemployment rate in Serbia. Well, all of your legal proposals that followed probably and in response to one of these conditions in the state contain all the basic characteristics. There are, of course, some other siders. One of them is the redundancy of the economy through income tax cuts and the increase of that base of profit, the untaxable part of profit. Another important feature is that all these legal proposals retain at least one provision in terms of facilitating and faster employment and further reducing the unemployment rate. There are also side effects in terms of reducing bureaucracy, when it comes to tax returns for inheritance assets, when it comes to equalising the marriage and extramarital community, when it comes to salaries and pensions, or their increase with no distortion of financial stability, etc. However, all of this brings us back together to the beginning of the story, to the struggle to further reduce the unemployment rate. Dear government representatives, the fight will also lead to new snipers and new chains and locks and new gallows and new motor saws and new hooligans who will continue to be threatened by those who are today's opponents, but by Serbia's countries as a whole. However, they will need both snipers and motor saws and gallows and many things, much more than they planned, because behind this job is not only the president and the Serbian government, but we are all SNS MPs, and most importantly, behind these jobs is the people of Serbia as a whole. He's shown it several times, folks, to support everything we're doing. They'll show it, if God does, and in the coming months we'll have another chance to see it. Since both the government and the president's responses were adequate for the benefit of Serbian citizens, when it comes to the aim of penciling and the opening of new factories in Serbia and when it comes to the laws that will help in this work, we SNS MPs will in the day to vote support these answers, that is, these legislative proposals that are ahead of us these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65143	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65144	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia and respected fellow MPs, a set of laws that we are considering at today's session is the continuation of one successful, one profitable and one policy that is exclusively aimed at the benefit of citizens and that is the essence of all policies and all that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are doing. The laws that are being adopted, and of course these laws that we are now considering, and the budget that we adopted two days ago, are just a continuation of continuity, a continuation of good practice, a continuation of good results, but these are laws and that is a budget that is not harmonised and does not work in the interest of the EU, in the interests of Russia, America or Germany. It is not in the interest of anyone else but in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. When there is a problem, and there are always problems, and there were so many in 2012 that it didn't know where to go, but thanks to the citizens of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic with coalition partners and with all those who thought well Serbia, we moved forward and we reached single-digit unemployment. All that was another impossible mission, they couldn't promise it either in election campaigns, nor as a pre-election promise, Alexander Vukic made it into action. What's a fact, it's that they're telling lies, and what Alexander Vukic is doing, he's responding to these lies right now to new highways, new hospitals, new schools, new clinical centres, stadiums and, of course, new factories. When I say new highways, I will commend, congratulate, thank the Government, thank Alexander Vukic on behalf of Western Serbia, on behalf of Sapca, finally, a contract has been signed to build a highway from Ruma to Sapac, a bridge across the Sava River and a fast traffic station from Sapac to Loznica. So 77km, 22km of highway from Ruma to Šapac, bridge via Sava and 55km from Sapac to Loznica, total investment of 467.5m euros. Those who doubt and who do not believe, go out on these highways that have already been made. Thanks to everything that has been done both to these highways and to this highway that will receive western Serbia, there will be no more small municipalities and remote municipalities, or, as our people say, he is there behind God's feet. Now, thanks to these highways, there won't be a god behind them. No, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't. When you say someone's working the highway to get a commission, it's not true. These highways are being run exclusively for Serbia's citizens. What we do know is that 400 kilometers of highways have been done. What we know is that it will be done even more in the next period and we know that Serbia will finally be a state that has a regulated road infrastructure. When we talk about unemployment, of course it's single-digit, and yet it's the result of full work by both the government and the ministries and the president of the state of Alexander Vukic. There were both Ruma and Mitrovica and Sombor and Pančevo and Kragujevac and Nis and before Alexander Vukic, but there were no investors. We didn't exist on a map of states where anyone would want to invest one single dinar or one single euro, and now, thanks to all these measures, we are the most desirable country for investment and we are probably the first in the world on conditions that we provide and the perspective we give as a state. It's not about statistics and indicators, it's about whether people objectively want to see what results from hard work, but above all from honest and dedicated work. You can't say that someone who gets up and goes to work in the morning and goes to work because he has a place to work, that you tell him it's not true, and how true it is that citizens in all the elections held from 2012 to today. When we talk about the budget, and it is good, it is no surprise that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed, and the assembly majority voted in November 2019 for 2020. Yeah, of course it's good that it's no surprise, because exactly because of everything that's been done, it's a natural thing. There are cities, like the city from which I come, where, at the moment when the Serbian government proposes, the National Assembly is considering the 2020 budget, in the town, in Sapac, on that day they are working on a third budget rebalance for the town of Sabac. In the city, the mayor abused fivem euros from the city of Sapca's 2015 budget and instead, as a result, already ends up in a place where thieves end up, it is precisely because of slow response and slow work in the judiciary that still does not end with thieves. What's good is that the elections are very fast, so the citizens will know that they appreciate what it is and what way it's done both Zelenović and Bastic and all those who are not thinking well of their citizens at the moment, and don't think well of this Serbia either. All those who, along with their boss, are rooting for opponents of Serbia, root for poor results of Serbia, I have the feeling that they also cheered against the "Star" and against "Partizana" and they have no chance of coming to power, so as hard as they try and as hard as they promise. If we're talking details, and each of these laws we're considering today gives an answer and solves the problem and a certain detail... (President: Bringing the end, colleague. )......................................................................................................... So I'm going to set aside the equalization of the rights of the marriage and the extramarital community when it comes to retirement. It's all simple stuff. Of course they're simple, but until someone analyzes it and does it and suggests it just doesn't see the light of day. In the coming days, I'll talk about the details when there's an amendment debate, but I'll end up with citizens knowing who they're supporting and the threats that our president's sent to them right now, but who's going to protect them, who's going to take care of them, they're just deciding. They weren't scared for sure I wasn't even a citizen, our president certainly wasn't, we're not as MPs. We will continue to support the brave and honest and, above all, dedicated policy of our president, and those who lie to each other, who lie to each other, continue to do so in the next period. We have our president, we have someone to support, and we will, of course, support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65145	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65146	Thank you. I'll talk about this point 11. – Proposal for a law amending the Act on the provisional arrangements for the payment of fees for public media services. Since it was the subject and the Committee on Culture, I think that only a few debaters have looked back on it and I don't think it would be good if this complex search with many points somehow pushed this important topic, especially for a good part of the citizens of this country. Of course, it is an increase in tax from 220 to 255 dinars, starting from January 1st next year. The increase, of course, is not great, and I guess that's what the representatives of the government are going to justify, that is, when you switch to percentages, is an increase of about 15%. What's interesting and probably forgotten by colleagues, and maybe citizens, but before or after showing up in our pocket again, is that exactly one year ago, we had an increase that was, on average, much larger, although it didn't work that way, an increase of over 40% of the tax, from 150 to 220 dinars. So a year ago there was an increase of over 40%, now there's an increase of 15%. When it's multiplied, how many citizens are paying, at 12 months, it's a serious asset. We have a principled dilemma here. When it comes to public services at all, their functioning and their financing, I should say immediately that I am not against charging a fee, or against citizens financing their public service, but I would remind those who may have forgotten, and I could be here from the phone, there is a sound record, or a tone statement, when the president, the candidate for the highest function, the SNS, promised that the subscription would be lifted, and then it was abolished for a short time, so that his promise would be respected, and then the subscription was returned, first, to a modest 150 dinar, and then 220 dinar, and now to 255 dinar. Mic by mic, we return the TV subscription, practically, the fee for the media service. It is one thing, then, that this promise is one of the many pre-election promises that has not been fulfilled, but it is the problem of the ruling party and their voters and their memories. What's wrong with me is... What do the citizens of this country get in return from public service for that tax they pay? Approximately, not from this point on public service, when we say public service, we usually think about RTS, there is not RTS, there is also the TV, or the Public Media Service of Vojvodina, which also participates in this, or in the incomes that are thus collected. So, what do citizens get in return? I say, they won't become richer now because the share of the state, the subsidies of the state are reduced in this budget, that was said, about the amount that could be expected, that would be collected by this increase in the tax. So I wouldn't mind that the state strengthens in its various aspects, including in the information aspect. I don't think it's fortunate that the state media is, in this way, liquidated, such as in a wave of modernism and alleged European practices, such as what was done and what was done is a real killing, say, at a local level with local potential public services, i.e. information centres at the bar, which were either destroyed, grassed up or turned into often suspicious private hands, and then mostly shut down for some business space or for nothing. So I support the fact that the state has a strong, i.e. that citizens have a strong public media service, but I say, most lightly when I look and speak, I think our public service, it's one of the few things that we agree on, even a good part of us here MPs, doesn't meet that function enough. There's an exaggeration on both sides, when I'm talking about both the government and the opposition, when they're like everyone else unsatisfactory. I think the opposition is much, much more needed and has to be dissatisfied, although I don't think everything is bad, far from it. Secondly, which reminds me of a colleague here for a little while, of course, public media service is not just an information program and other segments of the RTS programme and our Serbian public media service are quite solid. This may be better, but in any case, when compared to the programs of most commercial television, the public service convincingly bounces by quality. There's no doubt about it. What needs to be achieved, I'm simply drawing attention to it, maybe we'll do a little more of that on the Committee on Culture, is that we need to have a strong public media service. At the same time, this public media service shouldn't, should not be wasting and canceling, destroying private broadcasters, or commercial broadcasters, or they should shut down him, which was probably a tendency, or that because of his privilege, and objectively he is privileged, because all citizens finance him, should not destroy him, fill the space so that there is nothing left for them. We are, of course, interested in the most informative programme, but it is only part of the segment, part of the work and product, or the production of a media public service. Other segments are relatively satisfactory and can always, of course, be better. But if I and all the citizens of this country are already singled out the funds that are relatively small, but only relatively small, for that, then I will, now I speak as a citizen, not as an opposition MP, at that media service to watch Serbia's team games, even when it plays badly and when the results are bad. So that's the minimum I'm asking for, and I expect it to be... I'm not going to hunt on some private channels, cable TVs, see if anyone's going to be broadcasting this time. First of all, I mean football. Of course, I mean all other teams, that is, all other sports of the Serbian state. That's what's absurd. It would be desirable, but now we know that it's hard and it gives it expensive, if I could follow, of course, and the highest-quality sport, the League of Champions type and so on, especially when they're playing there, or the League of Europe, and our representatives, and not again to see if, when and what days, there's a transmission, and it's not, but it's already something else and it can be discussed, it would be desirable. But first, when it comes to team games, it's an absolute unconditional condition, or it's necessary to provide us with our media service and ordinary citizens expect it. I've been asked these questions many times in the street -- why don't you ask how it's possible and so on and so on. I've also asked the Ministry of Culture and Information and I've received some answers, but I think it's something that is necessary to provide for us as citizens and for all citizens, no matter what political options we are. And now, when we talk about political options, so they are obliged, of course there is a commitment, and other private broadcasters who use national good, resources, such as frequency, but media service has a much, much greater obligation to ensure a relatively equal representation of various political options both from both authorities and opposition, to allow debate, to enable opinions to be heard. Don't do me as someone here did in a debate, not here in the Assembly, naked in a debate under the roof of the Assembly when talking to representatives of the European Parliament, so someone gathered these transfers, so how much space there is in the transfer, so he says, "Here, there's an opposition to how much time there is." These transmissions are special, but the first RTS and TV programme is required to allow debate not on one show a week, where they get together, so everyone talks out loud and nobody hears and then just makes noise and a bad picture and leaves a bad impression on what our political scene looks like. So one can't, and it's a very deep problem show a week to meet the need to face different political views. That's not enough. So, I think in that light, regardless of what I, conditionally speaking, support this increase, but I think that RTS should work a lot harder, and this circuit service, which somehow always stays a little on the side and in the shadows, should meet the expectations of more citizens, regardless of their political options. The Public Service cannot be expected to activate and be biased, as some commercial television can be. Not that he shouldn't be, he can't be. It's not good, it's not acceptable, I say, that private broadcasters break the law and some rules, but RTS has an obligation more, and to be more cultural and to be more versatile and to be more versatile, and unfortunately, it is, but not as much of a quality as because this competition is mostly weak, or much worse. That's all I'm saying. I speak now as someone who knows, because I ate some of that bread myself, but I know a lot of people who do press work. Being a journalist of the Media Public Service is still a privileged thing compared to, say, a job in some other or most other media – and security legal, professional, and conditions are much better there. That's why maybe colleagues, I call them colleagues, in any case, people who work there, should fight more and try to preserve both professional standards and levels, and that's why, because of that consciousness, when everything is collected and taken away, yet in a privileged position compared to their colleagues from some commercial televisions, especially those at the bar, who went the way they went. So, just out of that, they should have a commitment, and among other things, that their leadership, I have and I know the good part of those people, and we're very good, but there's no excuse, that was words, but not only that now as well as that, it resented you, and that we were silent. A dozen days ago at the discussion of the Committee on Culture, it was a kind of public hearing, and there was no formal public hearing, where all the representatives of various political options and where representatives and international observers and others were invited all commercial broadcasters, managers, that neither the director nor the editor-in-chief came in front of RTS, but came in, otherwise dear to me and I think he's a good professional, editor, Internet editions of RTS, who is in charge of their website and Internet presentation. Even these most notorious private broadcasters sent a director, first man, editor-in-chief, even if he took a walk or said or appeared there, the RTS in the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Parliament Committee on Culture had no circumstances for either of the two first men. It's a symbolic very bad message, whatever we think of them or whatever they think of us as MPs, such types and such acts of factual disrespect of the institution are not good and can only produce evil blood and send a bad message to a guy - talk about what you want, we are, I don't know, secure or we know who our survival in that place depends on and what we care about this talk room in the Assembly. So I want the public media service to be better. I think it's a common interest. The obligation is, even more so, you should never allow us to lose the public media service to run out of marketing and there are such demands anywhere said - well, they get state aid, even a tax, so they have commercials. Our goal is to stop the state, so it doesn't have to pay for the public media service. That's what I support. This is the goal to be pursued, but it should not be a condition for the elimination of marketing, but that marketing should be at least half as serious and so successful, and not just pro forms as well as the marketing of private broadcasters, which are much more difficult, and the percentage and proportional are much more successful in providing and selling advertising space. So our common interest is to keep the public media service as good as possible. This increase, which, by the way, is being transferred from the state to the burden of Serbia's citizens, this increase in tax is something that is not a simple thing, attention should be paid and out of it, I would say, some additional commitment, I end it, RTS and RTS, or public media services, to make up for the quality of compensation or in some way justify this increase in both the quality of the programme and of the gestures, such as this petty incident with no presence or no entry into the Committee on Culture in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65147	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65148	I thank the chairman. I was just about to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. At one point I thought I understood the weeds without translation, but there was no translation in the headphones, and now I don't know if I didn't understand the weeds until the end, but I just didn't realize anything, even though I'd be happy to discuss it. The only thing I've realized is that this is some kind of complex search, etc. I really don't know what's put together in a few agendas. You have 20 minutes at your disposal, but let me stay out of the debate. It's not serious, but I'm asking you next time to let us figure out what our colleagues are talking about, so now with translation or no translation, whatever. I wouldn't even come to work today because today is November 29th, and it's a day that I'm deeply emotionally bound by, and that's until the DOS came and on November 14, 2002, it was a holiday for the country where I was born, for which many citizens who remember it are connected with positive, positive thoughts and I to all those who today feel like a holiday congratulating, but I simply couldn't respect it the right way and today that I don't do it because this would be an unworkable day for those assholes who got into this assembly on October 5th, it would probably be a holiday so we wouldn't even have to do it. We would enjoy our families, but since it is one important thing in this very simple debate, I will focus exclusively on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Obliged Social Insurance and Only and to Article 1. In fact, with these amendments and additions to this law, we introduce a whole new term and a whole new category called the newly-inhabited obligor. I followed very well, as I say this is not a complex session and the text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, which, unlike the law I'm talking about, quite precisely defines the concept of a newly-inhabited taxpayer. I think it would be useful, given that Article 6 of the existing law, and the amendments and additions that you have proposed, does not provide for a clear and precise definition of the concept of a newly-inhabited obligor, is done through Article 15a itself, adding new attitudes defines the question, or defines the concept of what a newly-inhabited obligor is. With the proposed draft amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax, Article 15v, which quite precisely defines it, is nevertheless expressed as necessary when it comes to financial laws, and my view is that this law too had to be done by or by supplementing Article 6, when it comes to definitions of terms or through Article 15a, define what the newly-inhabited obligor is. For this reason, we will of course do this in particular, I have made sure that, in accordance with the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, I propose that this article be complemented, because it is simply not enough for it to be precisely defined in the second law, but also necessary for this law to be defined in the right way. I know that in the next 20, 30 years, since around that time there will be no change in power, there will be no reason for the wrong attempt to change the interpretation of this article, but we laws when we adopt can and must count, that they can last for the next 100 years, and this is the detail that needs to be accounted for anyway. This is, of course, not for any malignant reason, I understand what is the reason for the proposed changes and additions, and considering that this is one of the things, when it comes to persons who are working or should get jobs in the Republic of Serbia, especially under some unfavourable conditions, and we are introducing one concept that has not yet been brought into life in the legal life of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps from an economic angle, perhaps from some other angles, this is more than enough, but since I have been doing the right in that practical and pragmatic sense when it comes to law enforcement, when it comes to justice, I'm afraid if we don't define this concept to the end, it can happen without any wrong to apply in some future application of this law. Here, that's the reason. If it wasn't for the rights and obligations of the workers, I'd be celebrating today. Once again, to all those who think like me, I congratulate the Day of the Republic, let them at least have a pleasant afternoon or tonight with their families and enjoy at least some memories, although today may be much richer, we still have a lot to do that when it comes to workers, it will be even more humane to them than it was before that state stopped existing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-29-0.u65149	Thank you. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We'll be working on Monday at 10:00. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 17.40 p.m.]]
