ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Djordje Milicevic, Milorad Mijatovic and Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft laws of the proposed agenda of this session as soon as possible. In the context of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda, a proposal for a merger of discussions, a proposal to conduct a search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled review of a draft law and a proposal for a change of the order of each item of the proposed agenda. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Securities Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 March 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 138. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The SNS parliamentary group proposed putting on the agenda as an emergency procedure - a proposal for a decision and amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 March 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 145. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Marija Obradovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 March 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total - 145. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Žika Gojkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters, War Disabilities and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2019. Does MP Žika Gojkovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52684	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, since I have very little time, I will read what I have to say. The reason for this law is the need for the state to repay the people who defended the country in the war, namely to finally resolve the issue of fighters, wartime wartime peoples and families of missing and dead fighters in the Republic of Serbia. This law ensures that war fighters from 1990 to 1999 get the national recognition they deserve, that they get certain material privileges as a form of national recognition for participation in the defence of sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. The bill also regulates all rights that fighters, wartime wartime disableds and families of missing and killed fighters come from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and at the level of local self-government. Dear fellow MPs, as someone who himself participated at the age of 19 in the unfortunate acts of war and, under the circumstances, remained alive and well, I have a personal responsibility to propose one of these laws. People who have defended their country in wars and people deserve to be recognized and helped by the state. The same status should be given to children of fallen fighters. The least Serbia owes to those who have given their lives for this country, as well as their children, is the right to a normal and dignified life, not the status of social cases, as we have had opportunities, unfortunately, to see from the media how some of the heroes from Koshar and other wartimes ended. The national pensions, the reduction of working hours spent on the battlefield, are just some of the proposals we're going to ask to be regulated legally. Small for society, and important for our veterans are the concessions in the appointment of medical examinations, that they do not wait for order, that they are a priority in the granting of banana treatments, and that they receive the vouchers of resorts owned by the state. Workable veterans should be given priority in employment in state-owned enterprises, and give their children the advantage in granting scholarships and staying in dormitories. Many athletes, cultural workers, singers owed our country, but none of them owed as one who lost a father, a mother, or a brother or someone else in their family, and that is why I think they deserve at least the same national pension, especially considering that those who are athletes and who in some other way hired the state are financially secured, and these families would be very much cared for by 40 to 50,000. I believe there is a time coming that will be as in the Kingdom of Serbia, that much more will be looked after and pay attention to the fighters, their families and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52685	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstention – has, in total – 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52686	We have proposed that the current Labour Act be amended, or complemented, and perhaps put out of force as it is in this context. He did not give the desired results and therefore it is necessary to carry out a detailed analysis of the effects of the application of this law. The basic reason why a detailed analysis of this law should be carried out is, in fact, the abuse of this law in these two basic institutes, which is the Institute – working on a certain time and the Institute – setting the minimum labour price. Working for a given time should be an exception and the minimum labour price should be an exception. However, given that we have something quite different going on in practice and that the minimum labour price is taken as a valid price, and the foreign employer does not think that we should increase the labour price, as well as work at a certain time is taken as a rule, and not as an exception, so at this point we have over 90% of employees at a certain time and over 90% of people who receive a minimum labour price. This law is also closely linked to the Foreign Investments Act, where foreigners are allowed to export most of the profits lightly from our country, without any income tax being paid, and also abuse by foreign employers, and to the harm of our country, and the fact that all the means of production are imported without customs duties and without any income related to our country. So, in any case, the government should analyse this law in detail and reduce its abuse as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52687	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52688	The position of the SRS is that there is no more immoral matter in politics than taking office, than stealing a mandate. This was quite present in our newer political life, and what was worst in 2009 when the Democrats made the advances, then even in the law provided for an unconstitutional provision and allowed the theft of the mandate. Today it all hurts your head for it. Today, we have, here, and the king has an MP in the National Assembly, we have Marinika Tepic, who has changed four parliamentary groups in just this term, four parties. We have Sanda Raskovic Ivićkoja as party president and as party president, she entered parliament. Meanwhile, he's at the third parliamentary club, etc. We Serbian radicals want a healthy parliamentary life to return to the National Assembly and therefore we suggest that the constitutional provision be returned to the Law on the Selection of MPs, by not touching our proposal with that unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court, that you as "legalists" would not say that we cannot vote for it because the Constitutional Court said otherwise. We, therefore, propose that the MP's term cease, among other things, and now this is a full quote from the member of the Constitution, if he leaves the political party on whose proposal he has been elected as a MP, if he has made his term of office irrevocably available to the political party on whose proposal he has been elected as a MP before the election. So the law must allow the MP to make his mandate, if he wishes, available to the political party, the party, the list from which he becomes a MP. It's a matter of political parties whether they're going to ask for something like that. There's probably no one abnormal who wouldn't ask for it, but if there's one of his things, we insist that every one of these rights must be made possible. Since 2000, you have prohibited the MP from having his mandate, and in essence you say, the messenger has a mandate. No, I don't. You've banned an MP from saying before the election that his party would return his mandate if his membership in the party ceased. It is available by mandate, not by what you put on the list in some order of yours, which each can change five parties during the day, which can be traded with parliamentary mandates, which is done, because no one changes parties while in parliament, especially while in parliament for ideological reasons. Everybody does it for serious money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52689	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? (Yes) Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52690	About a month and a half ago, Ana Brnabic said that Serbia had been eradicated, as she said, quotes: "Extreme aspects of poverty have been eradicated." On the other hand, statistics say that in Serbia, more than half a million people work for a minimum, or guaranteed profit of about 27,000 and five-six dinars per month. This means that the government's position is that someone who earns 27,000 dinars a month is not poor. He probably won't starve to death, but the question is, how will he survive? If that's the government's position, then we can't accept the second position of the government declaring poor families who have children and their children to foster families and to these foster families give 30,000 dinars a month for each child. So more than that minimum profit the government considers enough to live. If so, instead of foster families, the government needs that 30,000 dinars to give to that poor family, so the child will grow in its natural environment, with love, the attention of his family, his parents, and will survive with those 30,000 dinars, he will no longer be extremely poor. Why do you do that? Because foster families are a side stop for selling children, and unfortunately that's true. When this law was passed in 2005, I remind you, there are MPs here from that time, then the "yellows" spoke, then it was the actual Angelina Jolie, who took children in the white world, adopted, and then they said that she was human, so that one of our children might say she or someone like that adopt. It is the famous actress, known for her extremism against Serbs, known for campaigning against Serbs, known in regular visits to Potocari, etc. She was a motive and they spoke plainly, she was a motive for the then assembly majority to pass this law with this possibility of adopting children by foreigners. We were absolutely against it back then, and there are MPs here who are now in the ruling majority who have defended this position, so here I remind them and I urge them to vote for this proposal today, to show that they haven't changed their minds at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52691	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the importance of the subject and the problem that the Law on Psychoactive Substances deals with, it's a good thing we have a chance to bring this law closer and light up with several different aspects. I tried through my discussion not to repeat myself, for that very reason. My intervention refers to the preservation, storage and destruction of psychoactive substances. I asked for the addition of an article that reads: “If the period between the seizure and destruction of psychoactive substances is longer than six months, re-sampling and qualitative chemical analysis is mandatory. ” Why? Because qualitative changes in chemical properties can occur. Another member: ‘The destruction of samples must take place during a period not longer than six months from the moment of storage of samples’, because they cannot be kept indefinitely and most importantly in order to avoid any abuses. Both production, transport and use, and storage, storage and destruction of these drugs that are not for further use, must have their protocol and procedures. Plants that also produce laboratories where they are made, are so widespread today, and work so well that individual police successes in the detection and withdrawal of drugs have not shaken the Serbian drug market much. These drugs are synthesized every day, they're an unknown composition, and they can kill. They challenge a man to a psychotic fact, madness, that drives him to an unsupervised behavior. They're particularly dangerous with a student, i.e. The school population, which is without its own modality and needs much talk and talk and convince that drug abuse is not weaker but stronger. I spoke earlier and pointed out education as an important factor and a major weapon in the fight against drug abuse. Now I would add some other countries' practices here, that they are precisely TV shows that bring drug addicts and addicts, so that when a potential consumer sees what a man looks like and what a drug has led him to, at least he'll think of himself before he decides to take such a step. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes that we can do a lot together as a system, as a society, and not if we rely on the police, I think we will have little success in this field.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52693	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52694	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we consider the current demographic situation in all parts of Serbia, regardless of whether it is rural or urban areas, Serbia, unfortunately, loses a municipality of 35,000 people annually. Our villages remain empty, with an old age population on average for 70 years and more. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed, as well as on several occasions, a proposal to supplement the agenda to find a bill on fosterment in agriculture and rural development. The adoption of this proposal would significantly improve the position of our agricultural producer and the development of this economic branch. We would thus show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the RES, cares about our agricultural producer and agricultural products, which are certainly healthier than the products of the countries that impose Chapter XI, as well as the smaller imports of such and similar products, will raise doubts about the quality and presence of both chemical and genetically modified organisms. With this proposal, we want the agricultural producer to reduce production costs and the market position to improve by reducing the lower limit of milk per quarter to which the premium is made from the current 1500 litres to 1000 litres in order to make agricultural producers with difficult production conditions, e.g. where food and machinery are expensive, they could get the right to a premium. Also, in Article 15(4). We propose that the dairy premium be increased from seven dinars to ten dinars so far. Then, in Article 18, paragraph 1. The Rural Development Incentives Act changes the amount of basic incentives in plant production by increasing the existing solution which provides that the amount of incentives per hectare is up to a maximum of 6000 dinars to a minimum of 9000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52695	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session's agenda be complemented -- the draft law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52696	Immediately after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS demanded that the first Law on Citizenship change. And even then, in 2007, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the request of the Serbians from Montenegro, who came to us as a delegation, right at the moment the Montenegrin mob government arrested the enlightened Ruler Filaretta, so we asked for a change of membership of the Law on Citizenship and to allow all Serbs who recognise the state of Serbia as their country of origin, in their statement to show, before the competent state authorities, so the MUP, to gain Serbian citizenship. At that time, however, we did not know that administrative barriers would make it impossible for many Serbs from Montenegro who were suppressed there under the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic, as well as many Serbs from Republika Srpska who want to become individuals after completing schooling and studying, who have the right to special parallel ties with the Republic of Serbia and to become in Serbia, that their waiting for citizenship would turn into really one agony that lasts for years. To prevent that, in order to allow Serbs from Montenegro and Serbs from Republika Srpska who want to do so, and it has been submitted over the past three years to over 50,000 requests for both citizenship and several thousand for those who have received citizenship to receive Serbian passports, to allow them to issue a confirmation within six months of the competent authority, the unit of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, that they have received citizenship. Why do we think six months is enough? All the certificates and all that the applicant brings to Serbia's MUP are immediately verifiable, whether valid documents, a copy of the birth certificate, a copy of the citizenship of the country from which it comes, and asking for citizenship, and all the checks to be carried out from the Ministry of Serbia, unless there are already some persons who are on the arrest warrants and who are the perpetrators of certain crimes, therefore, for all of these others it is really enough, that is a maximum of six months to enable them, and that many of them have come to us after this request and have written that they have completed colleges, that they have to work both in Novi Sad and in Belgrade and other cities, over the youth cooperative, and that they cannot create a working relationship because they are still waiting for citizenship, we ask you to accept this proposal and to allow them to take within six months with an order request and documentation of the requested citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52697	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another opportunity that I hope you won't miss to give your vote that the National Assembly, or representatives of the citizens, is involved in the job of determining the historic role of Zoran Djindjic. It was recently an anniversary of Slobodan Milosevic's martyrly death in The Hague. At his grave in Pozarevec, unfortunately, there were no official state delegations and were mostly left behind, with the exception of several smaller officials, his former parliamentarians from his political party. A few days later, statesmen, or representatives of the Republic of Serbia, shed crocodile tears over Zoran Djindjic, often change their views on him, but what doesn't seem to be that no one wants to be thoroughly concerned with the political background of his murder, to deal with who the contracting authorities are, to see who the most profitable ones are and to see who are the political inspirers that no doubt exist. We wouldn't be so interested in Zoran Djindjic if you didn't insist on him, like your predecessors, try to make some visionary, a man who brought much good to Serbia, but there was a people who didn't want him alive. I think it's the only thing that can end this kind of polling committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We Serbian radicals have not forgotten that Zoran Djindjic is the one who called for the Serbian bombing to continue. A few days ago, it's been marked 20 years since the start of NATO's bombing of Serbia. From a safe distance, he urged that the bombing continue, that bridges continue to be destroyed, that both women and children and police officers and soldiers should be destroyed, so that Milosevic's regime would fall. He is one of those beginners, the idea that the regimes in Serbia can be fought violently. He's a man whose time has been carried out by a large number of these robbery privatisations. He is a man who has brought into the government of Serbia and Kolesar, and Janjusevic, and Bebu Popovic and many other murky characters Serbia does not remember well. Now, if you want to shed light on his historic role, if you have the courage to do so, vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52699	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52700	Of course I do, Mr. Arsic. The Serbian Radical Party once again calls for the establishment of this composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is how US Ambassador Scott was pressured in this assembly of the National Assembly by individual parliamentary lists. We all know and we remember very well that there were two lists whose representatives are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, which were below 5% after the polls closed, which is a censorship for entering the National Assembly. At that time, there was something that many considered impossible at the time, the meetings of these Dossmanian parties Dvori and DSS. They were then, I would say, by US Ambassador Scott in what they should do, pressure has been made on RIK, pressure has been placed on the top of the state government at that time, and so has Aleksandar Vukic. During the night, RIK, which thanks to SNS representatives' votes, decided to repeat the elections at certain polling stations, despite opposition from both DS and Dveri representatives and those who represented themselves as opposition. It is amazing that it is possible to end the electoral will of citizens in such a way as to enable someone to sit in the National Assembly for four years and, of course, represent the interests of those who have put pressure on them in the Assembly, which are US Ambassador Scott and other ambassadors. Today, there is a lot of talk about whether the conditions for the next elections will be regular, but I would remind myself that since 2000 and the elections held in December 2000, which won DOS, we have never had equal and fair conditions for elections in Serbia. That is the subject to be discussed. There is much to fix in Serbia's electoral system, but the place in which it needs to be discussed first is exclusively the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52701	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks with a proposal to be included in today's agenda for this session. The Serbian Radical Party has long indicated that there is a major problem with publishing and printing textbooks, because today we have a situation for textbooks to write everyone, betray each and every one of them to make their choice. It would be normal for quantity to lead to quality, but here we have a completely opposite situation. We've got all kinds of art textbooks. In the last session, I was showing illustrations of all the headlines in our textbooks. I won't do it anymore, I'm just ashamed to show it. But textbooks are still a matter that the state has to and how to take care of. Tomorrow, in five, ten or more years someone will think of waving textbooks from this period, because we have textbooks on which Kosovo has shown itself as isolated from the Republic of Serbia and then someone will say – well, what do you want, see what kind of textbook you had so many years ago. So, you gave up Kosovo and these textbooks show it, as we show textbooks from earlier times today. We may all have had the opportunity to get acquainted on social networks with the 1907 textbook of the Kingdom of Montenegro in 1907, 1908, where the data shows that Serbs live in Montenegro in 95-96%, while the rest are citizens of Islamic and Catholic religions. So this problem with textbooks and how it exists and must not be ignored at all. Here, we had a really unpleasant and unkind situation yesterday in Paris, in the Serbian Cultural Centre, where you saw that under pressure some people from the West were removed from an exhibition dedicated to the 20th anniversary of NATO bombing, because it is supposed to be the representatives of the forces that bombed us and that's something that's inadmissible. That's how it happens with textbooks. So I urge the ruling majority to accept this item of the agenda, which we would discuss at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52703	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP Rose Nikolic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52704	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the main reason for proposing amendments to the Law on the Transplanting of Human Organs is the abolition of the so-called assumed consent by which each adult citizen of Serbia is a donor of the organs. The assumed consent provides a large space for abuse and can lead to the criminal part of organ trafficking. The amendments we have proposed relate to Article 23. The human organ transplant law, which requires that the organs for transplantation can only be taken if a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia has declared for life that he wants to be a donor of organs, not that we assume unless he has notified the Biomedicine Authority that he wants to be a donor. Article 23 The law on the transplantation of shell organs is a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the case. 23rd and 25th. There is no law to impose something that is contrary to the Constitution. The donation of organs for transplantation is only possible if it is the donor's will only. You can't call a donor someone whose organs are taken apart from his will, and that represents a voluntary act. Paragraph 1 of Article 23 of the Law states that the organs are taken from the deceased unless the person opposed them orally or in writing. The question arises: who is the person who has been orally told that he is opposed to organ transplanting in case of brain death, and if so, what is the guarantee that this person will convey such information at a critical moment? This is absolutely unsustainable and raises real security. On the other hand, it is impossible to expect that people who do not want to address biomedicine management in mass and that it is unrealistic to expect young people to think about death, to be at all interested in organ transplanting. Unfortunately, young people get hurt most often in car accidents and as a result of these accidents come into a state of brain death and it is possible that a large number of them were right against organ donations, that they didn't even think about it. All these rights, which we have stated, are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and by Article 23. The human organ transplant law violates that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52705	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on repealing the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so-called Public perpetrators continue to pose a great danger not only to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but also to the state in general and, as I say, always some examples, and this time I will say that on October 18, 2018, private contractor Mirjana Dimitrijevic kicked out of the apartment of a baby of 10 months and a child of five years to buy the apartment in such a way or similar way. The latest example yesterday was that an official of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a former MP in the Republika Srpska Assembly had a siege by the perpetrators. Perhaps they once supported such a law whether they are the same people or not, it doesn't matter now, and last time I said – today some others, to us unknown people are on the hit by private perpetrators, tomorrow it can be every one of us. The execution is not a profession and is not a science, as before private perpetrators do not have the possibility of measuring the solution, the decisions, the judgments they need to carry out but simply do so. There must be an expression of one skill, an opportunity to negotiate in the most painless way for the debtor to ensure the execution of that trustee. So, in the most painless way, the simplest way. The Ethics Code of Public Executors, which was adopted on 21 December 2016, when it only serves as a form and is essentially not applicable, is therefore possible to artificially raise the costs of the procedure so that these costs of the procedure sometimes exceed the main debt increased by interest several times. Very often solutions are not delivered to the debtor, but are uploaded to the ad board so that the debtor is unable to make any objections and to get time to end his problem more effectively. Executors do not respond either materially or procedurally. They respond disciplinaryly in their chamber, and what is someone over whom an unfair execution has been carried out, and such a number of cases are far the greatest, is that the private executioner will answer only disciplinaryly? Even the resolution of a private executioner will not improve the material position, i.e. it will not be compensated for the damage suffered by the debtor. Any action by private contractors presupposes and requires payment of advances, regardless of how this will later end. And, one very serious and big problem that happens in practice is that private contractors have very often agencies dealing with the purchase of items that are taken away from debtors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52707	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52708	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the representatives of the government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are persistently ignoring SRS proposals, but we will not give up the bill that can affect the improvement of certain areas of life, in this case in the area of childcare, more specifically financial support for families with children. This proposal for a change and addition is comprehensive and accurate in the part where children's and parental supplements are regulated. The adoption of these amendments to the laws proposed by the SRS would put an outside force of the discriminatory provisions of the applicable law, which are defined as having the right to children's and parental allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic's budget in the future, whether it will continue as usual or make a permanent redistribution of funds by finally ending funding various NGOs and defining the money for the payment of a child's and parental allowance. The way the SRS proposes these changes and additions to the Financial Support Act for the family with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We witness the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia. Young people leave Leskovec and other municipalities of Jablanic County, young couples with small children. Those who leave will surely never return, but all efforts should be made to keep those who are there and stay. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. When we add to that the mass departure of young and middle-aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to go deaf about such proposals, it means that the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52709	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52710	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born on KIM, who spent his entire life down there until a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. As soon as the international circumstances slowly change in our favour, I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. If God does, they will hear Serbian trumpets again through the Gjilans and play the famous "Gjilanka". Therefore, there should be no compromises on state territory while this and other topics can be discussed with Albanians who, you see, the Republic of Croatia also demonstrates hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that by adopting such a law as I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52711	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a bill on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52712	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three days ago we've marked 20 years since the start of NATO's criminal aggression pact on our country. That day, with my soldiers and elders, the parents of the dead, I laid crowns on monuments. On that same day, gentlemen, I was present when members of the government of the majority also spoke of the dead fighters, with a lot of pythians, spoke of the heroism of the fighters who defended our country. There is nothing controversial there, I support it, but if the parliamentary majority has a relationship to this law as it has shown it 12 times, then gentlemen all that the prime minister, the president and all the others who go to the monuments of the dead fighters are farces. Right here in the Assembly, essential things are being solved, and the essential thing for the fighters and families of the dead fighters is a law that regulates their rights to those who have defended this country, and today they are gravely ill, they can be treated. For the first time today, we had one MP to propose such a law from your parliamentary majority. The Serbian Radical Party unanimously supported MPs from the ruling majority. We don't care who proposes this law, it's important that after 27 years, this law is finally passed. Otherwise, gentlemen, everything you say about fighters, everything you say about the dead, then it's one simple farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52713	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of a pension reduction under the Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 21 September 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item - Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 25 September 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which was submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas on 17 August 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does MP Miladin Ševarlic want a word? Here's a colleague of the Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Almost two years after I submitted the proposal for a declaration of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms to which I asked MPs of the National Assembly to adopt only what has been adopted by about 7,000 committees in 136 congregations, municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia unanimously, and to add only one member to the vote – the National Assembly undertakes that, when considering the 2009 proposal for amending and supplementing the GMO Act or the adoption of a new GMO law, the citizens would declare whether or not they were importing, growing, processing, transporting products from GMOs and genetically modified organisms. Unfortunately, until now, the most votes I have received for the proposal for this declaration were held at the last session, only 18. Although in this assembly there are 223 MPs living in the territory of these 136 municipalities and cities, who have adopted the Declaration of Genetically modified organisms. So the question arises, don't you have enough responsibility after NATO bombing to accept the proposal for a declaration of genetically modified organisms that I have proposed and thus to protect our citizens from the possible consequences of healthless genetically modified food? In particular, given the report by the Assembly on the health consequences of Serbian citizens based on the use of poored uranium during NATO aggression. This all indicates that the electoral law should be amended in Serbia, as MPs obviously do not represent their citizens in the way they should represent, if 137 thousand council members in 136 municipalities and cities, and especially those MPs, to whom, for example, Halal standards prohibit the use of genetically modified organisms, do not accept such a proposal for a declaration. The question is, indeed, what are we doing in this assembly, because we are not responding to citizens' demands. We did the same recently when considering the proposal to amend and supplement the Food Safety Act, when we adopted that genetically modified food is unnamed for humans, and then added genetically modified food for animals. So we value more genetically modified food for animals than for humans. Why are we ashamed to point out that this is genetically modified food for humans as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52715	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me tell you that I voted for Zivkovic's proposals, since I have an understanding for my fellow farmer who suffers because he was abandoned by Marinika Tepic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm also obliged to say about the appearance of Mr. Chevarlic's previous MP, a modified farmer, you know, when you're changing, you're wearing a folk costume, which you've never worn, but when you've reached the Assembly, then you take it to lead people astray, you're wearing a folk costume, a paratrooper, and then you're trying to say that you're the original representative of the farmer. I think it's a modification, no matter what the Duke throws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am also still asking – is it true that Nikola Kojo received 20 million dinars from the Serbian Film Centre, since he persistently disputed it? I expect someone to give me that answer. As far as Jeremic is concerned, you all know that in 2004, he was an adviser to Boris Tadic. You all know he went to America and boasted there that year about arresting all the generals with a war past. Also, you all remember the murder of young soldiers at the Karash military facility. That's what Wolf Jeremic covered up. There are statements from certain officers that there was a stash of drug dealers, probably the money from that drug was bought combined by Vojvodina. Also, you remember the March pogrom in 2004. Boris Tadic and his top adviser serving military time in his cabinet did not move a small finger to protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija against pogroms. You also remember that Vuk Jeremic actively participated in the construction of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija on our territory. I'm sure you remember in 2008 when Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic changed the country for the chair, when they said Boris Tadic would be elected to the US Embassy in Belgrade, they said -- that this would happen, Albanians must be convinced that Kosovo and Metohija are prolonging after the election of Boris Tadic. That's what happened. Convinced by the US Embassy and Vuk Jeremic, Albanians declared independence on 14 February 2008, and Boris Tadic took an oath in February 2008, thanks to Albanians for the election, but the Albanians were also grateful to Vuk Jeremic for that and repeatedly, Thaci and other representatives of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija, stressing that the International Court of Justice's opinion, which Jeremic unnecessarily sought for them, in fact, confirmed the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why I think the polling board should deal with these issues and sanction the authorities afterwards, both Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52717	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be completed by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the accidental spending of funds allocated for the pre-election campaign, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us who deal with political parties, at least registered, know that the funds from the election campaign that are not being spent, which are derived from the Republic of Serbia's budget, have to return to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Bosko Obradovic did not do so, and over 250,000 euros or 30 million neutral funds did not return to Serbia's budget, but pumped it up through the establishment of entrepreneurial stores and placed it probably in his own pocket and the pockets of his supporters. So it's about 30 million dinars and they're mostly pumped up through corporate stores in Borca, Crepaja, Ubu, etc. In Borca alone, he pumped up fake warrants, or to fictitious jobs of over 15 million dinars. He also bought himself suits, lunches, etc. He bought, say, a man's jacket, and another man's jacket, and a third man's jacket, and a man's pants, and a man's pants, and a man's coat, and he bought everything at the expense of his party, which is called the Dvori, and everything from the means he used. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is his statement, where he says -- he calls on the honorary officers of the Serbian Army and the MUP to arrest the president of Serbia for violating the constitution, stamping out the presidential oaths, etc. What does the law say, and I don't know why Zagorka Dolovac doesn't do it? Article 309. The Penal Code says: "Whoever calls or encourages the force to change its constitutional arrangement in order to endanger the constitutional order or security of Serbia, the highest state authorities or representatives of those bodies, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years." So, there were all the conditions that Bosko Obradovic, this person here, when entering the Radio Television of Serbia, and before that, because he was found committing a crime for which a five-year sentence was intended, is so, Mr Jojic, deprived of the current freedom. So I ask Mrs. Dolovac why she didn't do it. Also, you must remember this truck, so this is in front of the Serbian presidency, since it did not get the support of officers and police, Bosko Obradovic decided to take the truck down on the president of the Republic of Serbia and at that time ordered the driver to break the glass and ask, "This one will not drive," Bosko Obradovic says, "Bull his glass, throw him out, let another driver sit down and drive." He was actively calling for a truck to be forced into the police. Thus, he was found again in the commission of a crime for which a sentence greater than five years in prison is foreseen. That's why I want the committee of inquiry to deal with these issues and make up for what's been missed and bring that face to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52719	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Such Insurance", Kragujevac, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Gilas, multibillionaire. A man, who was at the post of minister and man who served as mayor, while the city of Belgrade pushed to minus 1.16 billion euros, earned 80 billion dinars or 720m euros. Today, Dragan Djilas, the owner of the alliances of thieves, frauds and Latvians, is. Dragan Gilas owns Dvori, Dragan Gilas owns DS, Dragan Gilas owns two cable systems, Dragan Gilas and his partner Solak own dozens of companies, in Cyprus, various islands, etc. They own a dozen TV channels. All of you are witnesses that we had to watch the game, the ones that we could, which is against the rules, only on Gilasov and Šolak's channels, which are called "Sport Club," and I think now this new TV called "N2". Dragan Gilas was in America these days, this is Matthew Palmer, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Europe, Europe. Why does this matter for the EU as well? So it is a person who, in his time, sent by the US Embassy on 13 August 2009, said and openly expressed dissatisfaction and criticism by Russian Ambassador Konuzin. So it's not just about Serbia. Well, Gilas also boasted to the US envoy that he was so firm, it says "The WikiLeaks", that such a firm anti-Russian stance has brought him into an unenviable position, that same Dragan Gilas has been narrating on alleged force these days. Also, Dragan Gilasa praised Jennifer Bras as a trusted co-worker and a reduction of Russian influence in Serbia, as well as a reliable protector of the announced homosexual parade. I don't know what Boškiæ – Ijotic says about it? Also, Dragan Gilas said at the time that he would immediately indirectly accuse his Western masters, the US and the EU, it is my comment that they were not pressured enough against the SNS to plead openly and plead for the arrest of Mladic and co-operation with The Hague. That's what Dragan Gilas was saying at the U.S. Embassy. After Pristina, after Skopje, after Brussels, here he is in America to advocate the collapse of the state. This is what Dragan Gilas praised and said that all protesters who threw some items at RTS should be sentenced to years of imprisonment. Today, Balsa, claims that today's government has applied to force, which is nowhere near this, this is what Dragan Djilas advocated, this is what Vuk Jeremic advocated, and Bosko has recently advocated, so it is that eight men beat and kill one, they have advocated killing Protestant Panic, they have advocated killing young Zaric with five centimetres, just because he committed a traffic violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52721	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and "The Storm", which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52722	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know if Sanda Raskovic Ivić is treating herself, is she her own doctor or her own patient? So only half an hour ago in the National Assembly, she said Alexander Vukic was "pinocchi". That's this lady, who greets some strange greeting next to Bosko Ljotic. He calls on us some forms of fascism, attributes to us some forms of fascism, and stands next to Bosko Ljotic, who leads fascist Falange these days in an attempt to harm the state of Serbia. I don't know if she's treating herself, and if she does, she's doing it badly. It is, in effect, the person who said in time that genocide was committed in Srebrenica, and thereby directly violated the National Assembly document that qualified it as a crime, but not as genocide. Also, I must say for Mr. Ševarlic, that I do not miss, that there is a law on GMOs, which states that the production and transport of genetically modified organisms in the territory of Serbia, the Law, and Mr. Seselj will explain that the declaration is weaker than the Law. You are proposing a declaration, although there is a law that strictly sanctions it, and the declaration means that we stand up for it, and the law says - that must not happen. But, my God, there are various modified peasants, so they can bring it up. So this same lady said for "Storm" that it was an action of humanitarian nature, so for her, Srebrenica is where civilians, old men, women and children are safely evacuated to the safe territory they wanted. That's what happened at Srebrenica. I don't justify a crime, but I can't say they're committing a crime for three years around Srebrenica, and in Srebrenica they went to Dodik, Tadic, Vukic, to bow down to the victims. Who went to Bratunac to bow down to Serbian victims? Nobody, nobody on the other side. So this lady claimed that "Storm" was humanitarian, that they were non-selectively killing Serbs, women, over 90 years of age, children, all ethnically cleaned, and Srebrenica declared genocide, and I think it's time to deal with the polling board with this issue, because it does irreparable damage to the state of Serbia and Serbs in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52723	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—24, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law supplementing the law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2019. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 1, v – no one, abstentioned – no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to Aleksandra Jerkov, and a link with foreign intelligence organisations and spy services, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2018. Does National MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52724	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very dangerous phenomenon. This is the biography of Alexander Jerkov herself wrote. It says that there has been more training in forms of education, seminars and training of the CIA, on political engagement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may seem insignificant to you, not to me. It is an MP who can decide, under certain circumstances, the fate of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine that the relationship between 125-125 and Aleksandra Jerkov, who has been through all of the CIE's training and who in many disputes the state of Serbia, has disputed the accession of Banat, Baka, Baranja and Srem. Imagine such a person coming into a position to decide, her vote on Serbia's fate, we're done. So it's not normal for me to have someone like that sitting in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I just got an affair about the demonstrations that Alexander Jerkov is participating in, this is the text. I have already claimed that political infrastructures of the yellow opposition are involved in the demonstrations, but that they are involved in the situ, well-trained and drunk. This text says that the protest of high school students was staged and it's very clear who wants to read it in this magazine, "The Sunday Day". So, it's about politicians who called, here's the unfortunate Sergei Trifunovic, who invites high school students to do it. So here are the high school kids. Look at the megaphone, the megaphone is the same as Boskov, amazing. They probably raised high school, and I'll tell you why. Two detainees, one son of state secretary, former MP Dragosavljevic, who was from the DS, and was Tadic, former friend Bogicevic, tycoon, State Secretary for Mining. His son and he broke into RTS, and his mother was the one sitting in front of the cordon to prove the police arrested her son, etc. It's about the functioning sons. The second is the son of former editor BETE. Moreover, the same editor was Council of Marovic's adviser while he served as president of the common state. So it's about the officials and their sons. And it's unacceptable for our services to be taken care of. Who raises our youth and why raises it, who stands behind it? Sergey Trifunovic, Gajic, a certain lawyer, Bosko Obradovic, who is the leader of fascist phalanges. We must keep our youth from such ones and therefore ask the Committee of Auditors to take these facts into consideration as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52725	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision to educate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts of the circumstances relating to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52726	Dear People's MPs, the man who fell into RTS on the first week of the post, tried a coup for me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first attacked RIK officer, then broke in and bullied the municipality of Cave Secretary of the Municipality, then beat up journalists of Pinka, shot down the chairman of the Administrative Board, broke into the office of the President of the Assembly, tried to break into REM, broke into the police station and called for a riot, in Luciani or Guca, and eventually, when they tolerated him, he fell under the orders of foreign services in the RTS itself. If he'd done it in America, the police station wouldn't have gotten out, they'd have taken him down like a pigeon. If he had tried it in Democratic America, he could have asked Scott, his friend. So it's a person who's working with the Bulgarian Attack, a pro-fascist organisation. No wonder he co-operates with fascist organisations, but wonders why DS, Jeremic, Marinika Tepic and Aleksandra Jerkov march with Ljotic Falangs. It is also known that he collaborated with Bosca Fernar, whose grandfather asked – since it is Serbian blood. Lately, Bosko Obradovic is not choosing allies. There is the Workers' Front from Zagreb, she came to protest Boško Ljotića. Workers' Front, Katarina Prejovic, candidate for president of Serbia. I think that Vojislav Seselj will be saddened, given that he is a fan of Colinda, but the lady is trying to overthrow Colinda at protests in Belgrade. Sam says -- the Workers' Front is travelling to Belgrade today to join protests against Brussels. Great for Bosko Obradovica. Also, here is our party from Tuzla, which is called, led by Omer Berbic of the canton of Tuzla, who came to fight for rights, for democracy and for free Serbia. Better to fight to expose the murderers of young soldiers who went through Tuzla, who were brutally liquidated by members of the Bosniak army, better to do so. However, it is known that Bosko Obradovic does not elect allies from Scott, Take Pernar, the Workers' Front, Omer Begić, Muslim brothers, etc. I think we need to form an Survey Committee, and examine all of these allegations and propose appropriate measures to the competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52727	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, abstentioned, for – 14, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Article 170 and Article 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: Joint Principles on: Proposal for a Health Insurance Act; Proposal for a Law on General Use; Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Substances used in the Unauthorized Production of Drug and Psychotropic Substances and Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Roads Security; Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on Co-operation in the fight against Crime; Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Decisions on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Decision in the Selection of a Decision of the President of the Commission for Securities of Values. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, has, in total – 148. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Marija Obradović, pursuant to Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 157(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that an examination be carried out in particular on the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act immediately following the completion of the principled review of the bill. Does MP Marija Obradovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for – 131 against – four, of the total - 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Marija Obradovic, based on Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 93(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety of Traffic, which was submitted by an emergency procedure, be considered as the fifth item of the agenda. Does MP Marija Obradovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for – 132, against – one, with abstention – there is not, of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda, a proposal for a merger of discussions, a proposal to conduct a search in particular upon the completion of a principled review of a draft law and a proposal for a change in the order of each item of the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, v – 12, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has by majority established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Health Insurance Act, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Health Protection Act, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on general application cases submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Substances Act used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Marija Obradovic; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Act establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on co-operation in the fight against crime, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group and 9. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President of the Securities Commission, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health with Associates. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda for items 1 to 5, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Health Insurance Act; Proposal for a Health Protection Law; Proposal for a Law on General Use; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Substances used in the illicit manufacture of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances and Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Traffic Safety Act on Roads. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52728	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is my great privilege to be here today in front of you and to present proposals for health insurance laws, health care laws, general application laws and amendments to the Law on Substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, which the government has submitted in principle. Let me especially point out the importance of bringing two so-called so-called. roof laws in the field of health care, which are the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act. I am convinced that you will recognise our wish as a legislator of these laws that the health system of Serbia, in which the last five years have invested far more than ever before, make it even more quality, faster and more efficient. We are not satisfied with the results and assessments of internationally recognised factors about the progress of our health system, but our intention, as well as our obligation to Serbian citizens, that quality health care services be equally available in all parts of our country. I will try to present to you the most significant elements of these laws in the next few minutes. The health care bill. The basic reason for the adoption of the Health Protection Act is the need for this area to be more detailedly regulated and brought into line with the amended socio-economic relations and newspapers in the health care system compared to the period of adoption of the previous Health Protection Act of 2005, and in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the basic legal framework for the regulation and security of the system in the field of health. After more than a decade and all the changes that have occurred in the area of the health system, the need for health care to be reformed in order to take a closer look at all the relevant factors that follow them. The most significant amendments to the existing law are as follows. Three new categories of population have been introduced in the group of the population covered by social care for health: young unemployed persons who are in school and up to 26 years of life, persons with martial status, refugees, or persons exiled from the former republics of the SFRY, as well as displaced persons who are unemployed and with low monthly incomes, who have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, persons who are provided with only mandatory and recommended immunisation and victims of terrorism. The plan for the development of health care is brought by the Government. The general interest in healthcare is being introduced and financed from the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund: conducting targeted preventive checks, i.e. screening, management of medical waste in public-owned health institutions; providing health specialist studies and close medical specialist studies of healthcare professionals and health associates employed in public-owned health institutions; providing staff for replacement of selected doctors during the period of specialisation; ensuring the property and collective insurance of staff in health institutions in public property from the consequences of an accident, insurance in case of serious illness and surgical intervention, as well as the provision of responsibilities to third parties in public property health institutions; ongoing maintenance of facilities and premises and the ongoing service of medical, non-medical equipment, transport and equipment in the field of integrated health information systems in their public health institutions. The means of organising and conducting regular external quality checks of professional work shall be provided by the competent chamber of healthcare professionals. The founders of a public-owned health institution are the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP for health institutions on AP territory, and for pharmacies is the founder of a local self-government unit. A health center is being introduced as a kind of health institution. A health institution may be established in accordance with the rules governing a public private partnership. The medical institution shall be entered in the register of the Agency for Economic Registers instead of the previous registration in the register of the court. The conditions for establishing private practice have been facilitated in the following ways: the possibility of establishing a rope specialist office. Polyclinic can be established for at least two forms of private practice, except pharmacy. Private practice can temporarily stop performing health activities for no longer than five years, instead of 12 months so far. If the founder of private practice is temporarily absent due to temporary prevention of work, professional training, exercise of labour rights and the like, private practice may continue to work for a maximum period of five years if it provides an appropriate fit. Private practice is not an obligation to provide continued access to sanitary transport. Then, provisions related to overtime have been improved. It is predicted that a contract on supplementary work with an employer with which an employee has concluded a full-time contract, as well as a maximum of three supplementary work contracts with another employer, can be concluded. The House of Health, in public property, is founded by the Republic of Serbia, and on the territory of the autonomous province an autonomous province according to law, a network plan. The home of health must provide health care from dental medicine, laboratory and other diagnostics, independently or through other medical institutions, or private practices in accordance with the law and plan of the network. The House of Health can perform the work of medical work and other specialist-consultative work, as well as apothecary work. The House of Health provides sanitary transport, as well as the transport of patients to dialysis, independently or through another health institution in accordance with the laws and plans of the network. The Institute for Pulmonary Diseases and TB, the Institute for geriatry and Palitative Care and the Institute for Palitative Care may have a stationary in their composition. The law provides for new types of health institutions: a health institution of polyclinics, a laboratory diagnostics office, a paliative care facility and a radiological diagnostics office. The hospital may have organisational units outside its seat. Minimum conditions have been facilitated for a Special Hospital which has no obligation to perform pharmaceutical activity, laboratory, radiological and other diagnostics, which can be provided through another medical facility. The plan for the development of health care personnel relates in line with the plan of enrolment in the colleges and schools of health professions, with the agreement of the minister responsible for education affairs, which includes the Ministry of Health in the adoption of an enrolment policy in this educational institution. The terms of the appointment of the Director have been changed. A professional preparation has been defined for the director, who can be a health care professional, a doctor of dental medicine, a pharmacist, a pharmacist, a medical biochemist, or a person who has a higher education in the field of legal and economic, or organisational sciences in academic master studies, at least five years of working as a medical institution manager, or head of an organisational unit in a medical institution. All members of the Management and Supervisory Board must have a higher education in academic master studies. Most members of the Management and Supervisory Board are proposed by the founders. Only a member of a single management body, i.e. only one professional body in that health institution, may be employed by healthcare institutions in the network plan. A change of professional titles has been made, in accordance with the Professional Regulation Directive and added Mr Pharmacy to a graduate pharmacist. Deficitary sector specialisation can be authorised for both unemployed healthcare professionals and employees for a certain period of time. The costs of continuous education shall be paid by the competent Chamber of Health Care Professionals, i.e. the employer, or healthcare professional. The provisions relating to apothecary work have been implemented in the draft health care law and form an integral part of it. I'm going to present to you the most important elements of the Insurance Act. The main reason for the adoption of the new Health Insurance Act is the improvement of the health insurance system, which is also this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52729	Mr. Minister, just set up the microphone so your fellow MPs can hear you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52730	Namely, first of all, compliance with other regulations affecting the organisation and implementation of compulsory health insurance in the fields of work, medicines, medical means, protection of the population from infectious diseases, sports, administrative procedure, inspection supervision, as well as protection of personal data has been carried out. This law regulates the system of health insurance completely, which implies both compulsory health insurance and voluntary health insurance, which has not been the case so far. Also, insurance and the scope of compulsory health insurance rights have been expanded, an additional payment has been introduced for health services, medicines, medical rehabilitation and medical resources. The procedure for the control of completed contracts for the exercise of the right to health care, as well as the procedure of centralised public procurement, was improved more precisely the regulated arbitration procedure, the procedure of appointment, or the resolution of the Authority of the management of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and more powers were proposed by the Ministry in the work of the normative activity. The most significant new solutions are the following: a new insurance base is introduced for farmers for a more precise definition, for persons performing public notary and public enforcement tasks in order to identify the specificities of these professions that are relevant in the mandatory health insurance system, for persons receiving pension or disability exclusively from a foreign insurance carrier and have a residence or residence, i.e. permanent residence or temporary stay in the Republic of Serbia, for victims of terrorism, as well as for fighters whose status as a fighter is established in accordance with the rules on the protection of fighters. Data is the possibility that an entrepreneur who has ceased to be an insurance undertaking due to the temporary check-out of activity, as well as a spouse, or an out-of-marriage partner whose rights and obligations are at rest for the purpose of sending another spouse, an out-of-marriage partner to work abroad, shall be included in compulsory health insurance in order to provide compulsory health insurance rights for himself and family members. A package of health services covered by compulsory health insurance has been defined, which are health services established by the Health Services Nomenclature and the Health Services Pricer provided by the compulsory health insurance funds. The scope of mandatory health insurance rights has been expanded in the sense that all adult insurance individuals have the right to preventive and other family planning checks, which encourages the government's population policy. It is predicted that the insured persons can be immunised and hemiprofilax recommended under the rules governing the protection of the population against infectious diseases under the conditions laid down in the new law. Data is the possibility of extending the right to profit during temporary prevention due to some member of the child's family to 18 years of age, when the amount of profit is 100% of the basis for compensation, which affects the improvement of the material and social status of the family, in which the child until the age of 18 has a severely damaged health condition. The cost of transporting post-mortem remains of the insured person to the place of residence in the event of organ collection for transplantation has been secured, given that, in the event of this human act, the families are not materially additionally burdened. It has been extended to insured persons, women who have had one or both breast mastectomy, which contributes both to the better mental and health condition of the woman after mastectomy. Data is the possibility of additional payment to the insured person for provided health services, medicines, medical rehabilitation and medical means by providing the basis for the addition of individual cases, as well as for the possibility of introducing new products of voluntary health insurance. It has been proposed for a longer period of 12 months to calculate the basis for the remuneration paid from compulsory health insurance funds, i.e. that the basis for profit compensation constitutes the average earnings made by the insurance undertaking in the previous 12 months prior to the month in which the temporary prevention for work took place, in order to use more rationally the means of compulsory health insurance, i.e. to prevent abuses by the employer and the insurance company. In the case where contributions for health insurance have not been paid, other than emergency medical assistance, it is proposed that the costs of palitative care, the implementation of compulsory screening under the national programme, as well as mandatory immunisation according to the rules to be laid down, the protection of the population from infectious diseases shall be borne by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, extending the circle of health services provided by the means of compulsory health insurance to insured persons, when no contribution has been made as a condition for the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. The importance of preventive checks is recognised in such a way as to ensure that insured persons on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds are provided with screening checks according to the relevant national programmes as a whole of the means of compulsory health insurance, in order to recognise the importance of preventive checks on the health status of individuals, i.e. responding to screening checks, the participation of insured persons in health care costs is envisaged only in the event of unwarranted absence from screening, as the insured person is called multiple times within one cycle. If an insured person who has been unwarrantedly absent from screening is later affected by the diseases for which the screen has been organised, he shall participate in the costs of further treatment from that disease unlike the insured person who has responded to the call for screening and who, in the event of subsequent illnesses for which the screening has been organised, does not participate in the health care costs, but all costs are borne by RFZO. The period for which the selected physician may determine the length of temporary prevention for the work of the insurance undertaking has been extended. Instead of 30 so far, it's been proposed for 60 days. This further recognized the role of the selected physician on the one hand and, on the other hand, made it easier for the insured person to exercise this right, but there remained an unchanged solution regarding the payer of the salary for that period. Up to 30 days of funding shall be provided by the employer, and 31 days of funding shall be provided by the RFO, except in the cases provided for by law. In case of need, the insured persons are allowed to be treated directly by the specialist doctor who treats him, and not only by the selected physician, thereby simplifying the process of exercising the right to health care for the stationary treatment. The law provides for the establishment of a single waiting list, which is established and run by the RFZO. A detailed voluntary health insurance has been arranged as part of health insurance in the Republic of Serbia. A legal basis was created under which the RFO can, in accordance with the rules governing a public-private partnership, conclude a contract for the exercise of the right to health care and with legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, as well as a public-private partnership. Two stages are proposed in the process of controlling the implementation of concluded contracts between the RFO with health insurance of healthcare providers, as well as the possibility of managing the administrative dispute, in which way better protection of both the RFO and healthcare providers is contributed. The precise deadlines for the submission of requests for the conclusion of an arbitration agreement and the proposed dispute resolutions by means of permanent arbitration or ad hoc arbitration have been established, in such a way as to remove the perceived doubt about dispute resolution and thus enable the arbitration to be carried out more quickly. It is possible for healthcare institutions outside of the network plan and private practice, with which the RFO has concluded a contract for the exercise of the right to health care on their behalf and for their account the RFZO conducts centralised public procurement activities with their consent. A precise procedure for the appointment and resolution of the management body of the RFO, as well as the matter of gender-legal relations in the RFZO, has been arranged. I'd like to introduce you to the reasons for the adoption of the law on matters of general use and a brief explanation of this law. The signing of the SAA between the EU and the Republic of Serbia recognises the importance of harmonising the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the EU, as well as the implementation of those in order to bring the standards of consumer protection in the Republic of Serbia into line with the ultimate objective of a valid functioning of the market economy. Prior to the start of work on the text of the new general application law, an analysis of the area has been carried out both in terms of the degree of application of applicable legislation in the area, the problems that arise in application and in terms of degree of compliance in the field of general application with European legislation. The proposed legal solutions will remove the indeterminateness and ambiguity of the applicable Health Law on General Use, and will allow for the harmonisation of this area with EU legislation to a significant extent. Also, the new legal solution will replace the applicable rules in this area that are in a certain way institutionally obsolete, primarily from the aspect of their effective application, and not sufficiently harmonised, or not in line with new ways and scientific knowledge. By adopting the applicable Health Law on the general application of the case in December 2011 of a single group of articles of general application which have traditionally been subject to sanitary supervision and subject to the regulation of this Regulation have been unduly omitted from the Health Law of the subject matter of general application. This resulted in the fact that tobacco stopped being controlled in terms of contamination of residues of polluting substances from the environment and the means of maintaining hygiene in the household, in industry, including those used in the production and placing food on the market, disinfectants and biocides for household use also ceased to be controlled in terms of health regularity in production, as well as in imports for delivery to the Republic of Serbia's market. The new law on general application cases achieves that a more complete legal basis will be created for the transposition of EU rules relating to the health or safety of general application cases and requirements that these items must meet during the delivery to the market, the responsibilities of entities in business to meet the prescribed requirements depending on the moment in the supply chain, and with the ultimate aim of ensuring a high level of protection of life and human health. The improvement of the free movement of these products between our country and the EU Member States, as well as other countries, with an adequate level of professional supervision of the application of the law removes any suspicion of any barriers to the free movement of goods and capital. The above-mentioned general use groups, such as tobacco products, smoking supplies and household hygiene maintenance products, including those used in the production and placing on the market, disinfectants and biocides for household use will be re-covered by adequate health control, i.e. safety at all stages of production and transport in order to protect the life of the population. This legal solution introduces the obligation to report serious side effects resulting from the use of certain groups of items of general use, such as cosmetic products. Thus, the collected information on unwanted effects will be used by the ministry for market analysis, market surveillance, as well as for the purpose of informing consumers. In relation to the applicable Law on the Health of General Use, this legal solution does not introduce a large newspaper in terms of the obligation of operators to operate on the subject of general application, but is more specific and clear, both in terms of documentation which demonstrates the health or safety of the product and in terms of handling the abovementioned allegations with the ultimate objective of ensuring that the safety and protection of consumer health, i.e. delivery to the health market or safety issues of general use. This law gives clear definitions of certain concepts, so it is expected to be easier to understand for all entities in the general business, which is certainly a positive effect of this regulation. I have yet to brief you on the amendment and supplementation of the Substances Act that is used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. Since the Law on Substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances does not fully comply with EU regulations governing the area of precursors, and does not fully comply with the national rules adopted after 2005, amendments and additions to the Precursors Act have been applied. Amendments and additions to the Precursors Act shall establish a traceability system, which shall be viewed through the possibility of monitoring the precursors in all stages of production, processing or transport, in collaboration with the Ministry of Customs and subsequently, adequate reporting by the International Bureau of Narcotics Control. Also, significant objectives will be achieved through the establishment of a quick check system before the export of precursors, which will improve the exchange of information on potential risks related to precursors, i.e. about their possible abuse in the production of drugs and on-the-spot substances. It is important to stress that new legal solutions facilitate the business of legal persons in the following segments. The number of evidence is reduced, i.e. the documentation needed to obtain the relevant production permits, i.e. the transport of the oversours. The time limit for issuing a licence for production, i.e. the traffic of precursors after the submission of complete documentation, shall be reduced from 90 to 60 days and the period for the change and renewal of the licence shall be defined as 30 days. The work of the person responsible for the production, i.e. the transport of the precursors, can also perform a person with a completed university of technology professions. Transport of small third category precursors in accordance with the rules governing the field of chemicals, biocidal products and the subject of general use, as well as the precursors of a solid category in accordance with the regulations governing the field of medicinal products, human health and animal health. Legal persons authorised for the production of medicinal products or for the marketing of large-scale medicinal products issued by the Ministry, or the Ministry of Veterinary Affairs, may, on the basis of that authorisation, carry out the production or traffic of the fourth category. Medicinal products containing first category precursors – ephedrin, pseudoephedrine, norefedrine or their salts. It is precisely defined that a licence may be issued for one substance in the first or fourth category of precursors, i.e. for a maximum of two substances of the same category of precursors, the second person of the third category, and that a Republic administrative fee is paid for the authorisation. That would be in the shortest, regarding these four laws. I will only ask that you allow me to read the fourth law of the Ministry of Finance, which is a proposal to confirm the act establishing the Asian Infrastructure Bank. There is a bill before you to confirm an act establishing an Asian Infrastructure Bank and I would like to mention the basic information on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. It was based on the initiative of the People's Republic of China in 2015, when 57 members signed an Act of Accession, or adopted an act establishing, of which 37 countries are regional bank members and 20 non-regional. The bank began working in January 2016 as a relatively new multilateral development bank with a capital of $100 billion. It was originally founded to be a regional financial institution, but was approached by a large number of members outside the Asian Pacific region, such as Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and others, so that the bank has an international character and currently numbers 93 Member States. The bank's headquarters is in Beijing. The aim of the AIB is to encourage, maintain economic development, create wealth and improve the integration of infrastructure in Asia, invest in infrastructure and other manufacturing sectors, as well as promote regional co-operation and partnership, work closely with other multilateral and bilateral development institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52731	Mr. Minister, it's the second debate and it's the turn after this one. Thank you. The speaker, National MP Marija Obradović, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52732	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you, as well as the general public, are familiar with the dissatisfaction of a number of our citizens dealing with agriculture and in recent days of law, are upset about the amendments to the Law on Road Safety, which we adopted in this high house exactly a year ago, which would mean that the provisions of that law will enter into force on 3 April. No matter how hard we try to bring economic power and normal living conditions into line with our daily obligations through a number of laws, with the intention of ensuring greater security of citizens, we are convinced that these changes to the law a year ago, when we adopted them, were absolutely high quality, but it turns out that in one part of them they represent a significant burden for what we fight from day to day to day to save and what needs great help, where it is our priority to recover, which is a village in Serbia and the villagers. In the first place with the interests and voice of the Serbian peasant, I will present at today's session a proposal that can solve this problem that is important for the existence and everyday life of people in the country, especially farmers. In fact, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the roads of which the state's interest should be brought into line with the citizens' interest, because the interest of the state is the interest of its citizens. That is why, Article 351 of Article 9 of this Road Safety Act provides that a certificate of registration of a motor-powered vehicle, hence, working machinery, motor-cultivator, tractor intended for the performance of agricultural works and connected vehicles pulling these tractors ceases to be valid after a year after the date of the amendments of March of last year, or 3 April of this year, in a few days. That would mean that these vehicles have to register again, and that's why the great dissatisfaction I mentioned at the beginning of the speech. The change I'm proposing, and I assume you'll support me, because it's good for all the people who own this kind of vehicle, is extending the importance of this vehicle registration certificate, so, and the working machines, and the motocultivator, both tractors and similar vehicles. So we stay with that previous item on the permanent registration of the vehicle. There's one thing I want to point out. We have also introduced a re-registration story in order to ensure traffic safety and to think about the enhanced technical correctness of these vehicles, to protect farmers and those people who use this type of machine. Obviously, this year has not been enough for our society to adapt to the new standards that we insist on and therefore make this change. We'll talk about it today and Friday, when we talk about it according to the amendments. According to the MUP, it is estimated that the extension of the importance of this certificate would relieve the owners of more than 493 thousand of these vehicles. It's an administrative obligation, so about 500,000 vehicles would be disbursed. This, however, would not have a significant impact on safety, because the owners of these vehicles continue to have an obligation to be technically correct and to carry out regular technical checks, and on how many regular technical checks are carried out, how correct all those vehicles we are talking about today, we can do so elsewhere and at some other time, but it certainly deserves a lot of space, both here in Parliament and on committees, on which I chair, which is a committee which controls the work of the MUP, namely, and administrative tasks under which the registration of these vehicles is included. So, according to the MUP, I'd like to point out that when we talked about security in tractor-related accidents, only 34 people died last year, and 394 were more serious and more easily injured. It's a large number of people who have been killed in this species or injured in this type of accident, and when this type of agricultural vehicle is concerned, which only gives us the right to insist that the safety and technical correctness of these vehicles be at a much higher level than it has been so far. We have a few more amendments in this law, actually three more, but this permanent registration was something that took the most of the places in the media and the public, most concerned the peasants about what would happen, would there be a new charge? We've had a few more changes. The proposed amendment of Article 247 of this Act, according to the MUP data, has shown that there are problems in the processing of infringements of the rules, as a large number of citizens provide information on the identity of persons not available and cannot be determined whether or not they exist, or whether the address abroad is correct. In this way, with the introduction of an obligation to provide relevant evidence on the basis of which it can be determined in an undeniable manner that the person has just operated the vehicle at a specified time and expecting that the owner, i.e. the vehicle user, will provide complete and accurate information on the person who manages the vehicle at the time of the infringement. Let me get this straight. At the time of driving, unless it is owned or authorized to use vehicles, often the owner of a vehicle or user who has the right to use gives the wrong information about who was driving at the time of the accident and gives frequent names and data, addresses of people abroad who are difficult to reach and difficult to determine who is the real perpetrator of the offence. You can see on the camera that it's not the owner of the vehicle, obviously, but you can't get a real identity. By changing this attitude of this member, you undertake the owner of the vehicle, or one who had the authority to drive that vehicle to give you true information and to bring a certified statement where that person confirms that he was actually driving the vehicle at that time. In a situation where you can't get that license, responsibility falls on the owner of the vehicle. I think this way we will reduce the number of abuses and discover the real perpetrators and participants in certain traffic offences. Also, the amendment of Article 253 of the Law has emerged as a need for reasons that, in addition to the print-up of the number of boxes, vehicle identification codes in practice are very often required to print the number of engines, which is also an important element for the vehicle registration process. And, finally, a minimum extension was proposed for the start of issuing a test driver's license on a new form. This change is the product of an estimate that this will save the budget, because for technical reasons it is not possible to issue old and new forms at the same time, while the original intention was to issue old B-category forms until the consumption of these existing forms. The start of issuing new test driving licence forms within the time limit left by law would mean that the remaining quantities of old forms are declared by a card, i.e. unnecessary cost and can be avoided in this way. So we're supposed to start getting plastic test permits, not those in the paper, as they are currently being issued, but we're moving the deadline until 2 September of this year to wear out the existing printed forms in paper for the next five months. It's about simple budget savings. Another option is being considered, I will only talk about it now, and later we will have a concrete document, which I think would significantly facilitate the life of citizens in Serbia, to work with the Post of Serbia, but this is really something that is only in negotiations, maybe I shouldn't talk about it, but it's a good signal for citizens to see that the state is really thinking about them, that in agreement with the Post of Serbia we are delivering to home addresses, in cases of extension or making new permits, where you will order it, and you will arrive at home, because the state will also obtain all the documentation itself. You don't need to be on the counter anymore. But it's one of the options we'll talk about in the next period when these agreements are concluded. It is important to me that in the heads of the people who are following and listening today, and otherwise the citizens who will listen to us in the coming days, the impression remains that the state strongly insists on being a citizen service. These changes we make, just a year later, are a sign that we follow the situation on the ground and that they see, that citizens know that the state is their service. I'll be at my disposal as a proposing all these days to discuss details. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52733	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52734	Ladies and gentlemen, you've, like, had a little bit of a mispractice about joining agenda points, but it's still not enough. Instead of having a single discussion, as you have been used to, you've divided all the points of the agenda into two continents. But there are still things that cannot be discussed at the same time, because they are absolutely not connected. That's why, because in 20 minutes I don't have time to talk about everything that's started within this first block, which is probably four points, or five, five, I'd like to talk about what's most important, and that's the Health Insurance Act. This law has been written quite voluntary and dilettaneous and it does not create conditions that Serbia's health system works more efficiently than it does now, that it leads to solving the most important problems and adequate meeting the health needs of the Serbian population, to stimulate better quality and economic work, so my advice would be to withdraw the proposal and complete the text or at least correct the mistakes in it. Here's the mistakes I made after a careful reading came into my eyes. You have a revolutionary newspaper here. It does not concern general interest in health care because there is a definition given in an explanation that corresponds to both the previous and nothing new is given. So far we have had a used term – service providers also in the Health Protection Act and in the Health Insurance Act. Now someone smart remembered to change that term and say – service providers. Here we now need a philosopher undermining linguistic knowledge to show us the difference between the donor and the service provider. It's not the same anyway. Why'd you change that? If so, why haven't you changed the Mandatory Health Insurance Act and introduced there – service providers. That's where you kept it - the donors. A simple colloquial conversation, when you show up at work in the morning, after an hour, two delays, so you drink coffee, so you eat burek etc. As you normally do in our ministries, then you can have an optional conversation. However, when you write the text of the law, you must be precise, and the text of the law does not suffer synonyms. Each term must be marked by no term, and not by one law, provided that the concepts are indeed identical here, one term is used in one law, a newspaper introduced, by whom it has come to mind, and in another law an old term. It's intolerable in the context of a modern legal order. Next, if you do this like this, you'll have to change one law or another soon, you'll have to coordinate this. It can't go on like this. I can see that the parliamentary majority is not interested in what I'm saying, but someone will find themselves intervening. Then, the term was expelled – health care, which is a huge mistake. You think the term – health care can be replaced by a term – health system, and cannot. It's not the same. Both terms have long been defined in the World Health Organization dictionaries and you should have consulted them. I see that the ministry is full of old, very experienced ministers, and at least you weren't expected, you're not fliers, you're not just an employee of the ministry, so you don't know what it is. The health care department describes the professional part of the health system that performs health care. You should know that. So it includes healthcare professionals and health institutions, and the health system is a broader concept. It includes both healthcare professionals and health institutions and much more, including individuals, families, communities, etc., all those who have a specific place within the health system. Therefore, there must not only be professional protection measures within the healthcare system but also unprofessional. Mixing these terms, you've made a termological mess. That termological confusion obviously doesn't bother you because you have no reason to get a little deeper into it. Then, here you have this problem of differentiation of healthcare workers, when you define that employees in institutions in public property from which incomes are obtained outside health insurance can be increased, in accordance with the rules governing public service employees' salaries. This is a big mistake. Health care can be excluded from that, especially surgeons. Here, for example. Look at the difference in the salaries of a surgeon in Serbia and Germany, and Germany is ready for each of our surgeons to hire, because a surgeon and if he doesn't know German, he knows how to operate. Come on, for specialists of other professions, it takes basic language knowledge if they haven't perfected Latin enough to literally do anything in Latin. But for a good surgeon in a non-atmosphere, a job can be done without a problem. This outflow of top experts, of course, cannot be stopped without adequate increases in their salaries, and not only top experts among doctors, doctors and professors, but also top experts among nurses and medical technicians. Furthermore, you have here at the appointment of the institutions, the DRI has already made a complaint to the infinitely long mandates of the director of certain health institutions, and here you have defined that you v.d. The mandates may take a maximum of six months without the possibility of an extension. It's in Article 117, and then in the explanation you listed a year. Is that dilettanteism, is this an amateur approach? Yes, it is. I'm sorry to have to say this, otherwise I have great sympathy for the Ministry of Health, not to say, both for the minister himself and for my staff. But what do we do? Furthermore, some health care matters had to be elaborated more thoroughly. We have a vaccine problem, a terrible problem. The health ministry this year covered up the number of deaths from the flu. We've had, apparently, the worst kind of flu that's appeared in the last 20, 30 years, not to compare it to the former Spanish flu, but what happened? Just the vaccine we received in time was responsible for that kind of flu, hit him in the forehead, and there are rare cases that someone was vaccinated, yet he got sick. However, inoculation of zero, about 50,000, as it were, the minister said it once. Why not half a million, why there were so many health employees who didn't vaccinate. The law requires that every doctor, every nurse, every nurse, every medical technician, every employee of the administrative and technical staff must be vaccinated against the flu every year. How much damage to society has been done to those who have not been vaccinated and have been given the flu, so they have to lie at home for seven to ten days to heal, and the vaccine simply does not cause side effects. I've been inoculating for 30 years every year, 29 full years. It has to be mandatory. Anyone who doesn't want to be vaccinated, and has no strong health reasons, nice, should be hired somewhere else, can't be in a public institution dealing with the health of the population. With the inoculation of children, there should be an immediate arrest of all those who have propagated that vaccination is dangerous, that it should be avoided, and everything else. When I was little, when I was a child, there was no vaccine against rubella, against welds, against mumps. We were all sick of welds, we all got over rubella, but we all, I didn't even go to elementary school, we warned, if someone had mumps that they had to run away with their heads, regardless, and they told us there was danger, the one who got over mumps that could happen tomorrow couldn't have kids, get sterile. Now there is a vaccine for all three diseases and someone to say – thank you, I won't or my child won't. You can't do that. An irresponsible parent must be punished. Let's put aside the BSZ vaccine, how many lives she saved. Almost all of us were vaccinated, was it 1970 or 1971 when the great goddesses appeared. There are doctors who wrote that a vaccine that is once taken against the great goddesses and passed on to the offspring of a particular part. To pass it on to the genes and to the offspring. Imagine now, after 30 years of persistent vaccination, he is resistant to all kinds of flu. When you don't hit the vaccine with the right species, there's been signs of protection in recent years, there's always something left. So that's where you had a huge failure as a ministry. I said, more than 200 people died of flu. You didn't list yourself, you died in hospitals, people came because of diseases you wouldn't die from, and then they got sick and died there. There have been cases like this so far. I know a lot of people. We have another problem, it's hospital bacteria. It's a terrible problem, and his little attention is being paid. A man comes from a relatively serious or relatively dangerous disease, but he's not exactly lethal, he wouldn't have to be. The doctors are doing a nice surgery, the surgery's working, everything's working, and it's due to now-inflammation from the hospital's bacteria to the death. As many of those bacteria are in hospitals, it hasn't been established yet. I heard a group of foreign experts recently came to one of our most valuable health institutions that was built about 40 or 50 years ago, I don't know exactly. What is the solution for these hospital diseases, they say – it would be best to tear down the building and build it all over again. The building is still expensive. And what's the problem? In the ventilation system and in the heating system. Those who once projected this had no idea about bacteria, or that bacteria eventually gained immunity to antibiotics, and now, among other things, they need to apply those outdated antibiotics that we forgot about, like penicillin or streptomycin, and surprise these bacteria that are resistant to modern antibiotics. And what do we do when they adapt to this? There's always a new type of antibiotic that needs to be done, but there's something that needs to be done in the hospital buildings. Thorough cleaning of hospital buildings and changing heating and ventilation systems. Especially ventilation pipes, the ones that spread the virus the most. I have another direct question for the minister, like in the forehead. Minister, what happened to those 250,000 euros you paid to Sergei Trifunovic at the expense of complaining there was no money to treat one child, at first sight humanely. However, that child went abroad, found one human man, a sportsman, a football player, paid the full amount, and unfortunately the child died, and the other's money to Sergei Trifunovic. Here, the other day on Twitter, he says, what kind of expression did he use? What kind of religious expression did he use? No, the expression one was used as a minister? The problem here is that the ministry gave 250,000 euros and it doesn't care how these euros are spent, and what the ministry purposely gave it found another financier and didn't need a single dinar of the ministry's money. Now this Sergei Trifunovic spent that money who knows why, because his overhead costs are 30% or 40% or more and now he says he's come to an end, they should pay him something again. This is a mockery of the state. This isn't about the minister's personality anymore. What kind of state is that when it can pay off and not be taken care of? As for these rare diseases. The solution is bad. I disagree that the minister determines which rare diseases are on the proposal of the Health Insurance Fund. This must be a more expert commission than the university professor, from academics, and then to seek the conditions to be rare diseases, these are the wave of children's disease, treated in Serbia. It is much cheaper to invite visiting professors from the white world who are experts in these diseases to perform several operations, to perform several operations in Belgrade, to participate our doctors, to gain experience and to begin to heal themselves. I'm absolutely against adults being sent to treatment abroad. Our medical institutions are capable of treating all diseases adults. The one who has the privilege of funding his country, of going for nothing, could not help him there either. When children are referred to, you know it's terribly sensitive, but there must be people who will end up objective and say, be careful this sounds terrible, but to assess whether this child has a chance to survive or not. We remember the case of Dusan Vlac, the little boy around whom the entire Yugoslavia trembled there at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s. He had a very dangerous heart defect, and eventually he went to Houston, Texas to see the famous Dr. Debachi, who operated on him, so he transplanted his heart, how much memory he served me, and the boy ended up dead after all. You know, that's where the judgment has to be made. If there's a 20% chance of survival, let's go, if there's a 10% chance of survival so let's go, but if our doctors say there's no chance of survival, then we need to keep the people a little bit of emotion. We have to take them down. It's sensitive to talk about, I know, but it has to be. (President: Bringing the end. I still have a problem with volunteer health insurance, what is that for? Health insurance must be general, binding, must be unique, so military security must be united with this general. The military hospital must be involved in a civil security system, and all civilian hospitals must be trained in war conditions, to become military hospitals. So that's what you should do. The system of health insurance is unique, there are no divisions of civilians and soldiers and farmers and all others, a unique system under unique conditions for all. Guaranteed general health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52735	Thank you, Seselj. Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52736	I will present some of the official information mentioned here, which is, to this day, the total coverage of Serbian citizens for the flu was somewhat lower, of 250,000 citizens vaccinated in Serbia than that. We haven't had that kind of coverage in the last 10 years when there was a more regular analysis. According to official data, the maximum of 63 people who have died can be associated with the flu. So I can. No one can at that moment when it happens to give you accurate information on whether the flu is definitely the cause that someone died or not. So I'm just asking everyone to be careful with that. That's very important. But this vaccine thing is the most important thing. These are things that we can't think differently, because every single one of our different opinions, what's worst, will have a fatal outcome for a child. I just want to remind you what kind of campaign that anti-vagation lobby was and how many of us had dead, and between them and the kids. I want to remind you one thing, that I filed criminal charges against those who represented against being vaccinated. It's in court or the D.A.'s office, where I have no right to influence what to do and how to do it. But everyone needs to know that criminal charges have been filed and I expect that according to the law, those who have done so, to consider that we had children who have died and that the process is based on them and that they are sanctioned. It's something I think Serbian citizens deserve no matter what. I don't believe there's a Serbian citizen who can justify it and have an excuse for who went out to propagate that someone doesn't get vaccinated and then die after that. Let me remind you, that we don't allow, that we've raised these penalties, that there are people who have come to be punished for it and that they can't enroll children in kindergartens and schools if they don't have confirmation that they've been vaccinated, because it's not just those children who are not vaccinated, but all the other children. It must be remembered that a number of children cannot be vaccinated, because there are some diseases that do not allow them to be vaccinated, that it is risky. As far as we're concerned, we officially have no confirmation from any relevant European or world institution that the virus that was, or the flu that was in Serbia, that it mutated, that it went from the scope of these three viruses. Things happened that someone wasn't vaccinated, that they got one type of flu, that they didn't do it, and that the type of flu that they were going over and over again, and some time and another, but we don't have to mutate, that's anything. It's a conclusion. The best prevention of vaccines that were in sufficient numbers and October is the month that vaccine arrives. Once again, it is a long way from October, think about it, we'll all be much better off. As for money for Sergey Trifunovic, I think you all remember that at that point he was like a folk hero in Serbia who helps children and that the state of Serbia will not help children heal. So that 250,000 euros, not only for that child who was supposed to go to Spain, was given money for another five children, because he had five more children who wanted to go. First of all, I have to say, that the citizens know that this child that was like organized to be treated in Spain, that this child arrived in Spain and that it was not even announced there at the hospital, I think it was a weekend, Friday, Saturday or maybe a week, where it was only for contact with people we knew at that hospital the child was admitted because that hospital doesn't receive Saturdays and Sundays children, of course, and a number of other things that might not be right for me to say. What I was looking for at the government is that we have to get proof of every penny of what's with that money, not just that 250,000 euros, but for every penny that someone sent a text message or otherwise paid off, because it's unthinking everything. If you don't have feedback on what you've given, and it's all under the pretext that you're going to help someone, and you all know that in the end it turns out that he invested that money in some suspicious investment funds, gambled with money, had no right to do so. The other thing is, according to his story, there was only one doctor. Can you imagine if one doctor could look at all the diagnosis and make decisions where anyone would be treated or anything? The second-degree commission was, personally, Sergei Trifunovic, out of every law, out of every sense, out of everything. I insisted then, and I insist, and now that it has to go to the citizens of Serbia, that's their money, to say, it can't go out of date, or anything, where every dinar and that 250,000 euros and every dinar that came from a text message, because it's very simple to calculate how much money has come, where and how it has been spent and for everything that is determined to be answered. What I have is the last piece of information, that the authorities and the police and the prosecution and all, I have no information after that, as far as it's come, because I don't have the right, as you know, but this way I appeal to everyone to bring it to an end, whatever the truth is, whatever the facts are, to go out with them. As for the treatment of children, you must know that decisions are made only by the republican expert committees, i.e. the people most professional in the area they deal with and from what area is the child's problem. So it's the only way we can establish a system to make it work. Everything beyond that is a serious improvisation that can cost us too much, that we have serious problems and serious consequences, that we transfer it to another track. We have to trust our people, our experts, what they say we do. If the citizens of Serbia knew, for some diseases, that's why they're called rare, in Europe and in the world there's only one or possibly two or three centres where they're being treated, for that very reason, because to be treated in more places, they wouldn't be able to collect all that data, they wouldn't be able to commit themselves enough because it's more rare than any other disease, and that's the official profession's attitude to do it in two or three places. It's not just surgery. It's the easiest thing to do when it comes to surgery, so a foreign expert comes to operate here, but there's a lot of metabolic diseases, blood diseases and others that they need and specific conditions, specific medications, it's not enough for someone to come here for one, two or three days, that's some things that take months, weeks and that have to be in that place in those clinics that exist. So I'm just asking people to understand that, that's the essence of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52737	The People's MP Vojislav Seselj has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52738	If, indeed, 250,000 citizens have received a flu vaccine by now, then it's not a bad result to begin with, but your last statement where you announced the number I remember, somewhere from the beginning of February of the month, when it was about 50,000. He probably also did his job, so at one point, the citizens went more into vaccination, but that's not enough for the population of Serbia. For the current population of Serbia, at least half a million should be vaccinated every year, completely medical personnel, all employees of the state service, and then we should see who else. One more question I didn't get to mention here. You are some disease instructions that should be the subject of social health care, these are primarily malignancies and diabetes. Look, I don't ignore it, these are very dangerous diseases and they're very widespread, we even have a certain epidemic of malignant diseases, diabetes very often, today much more often than before, which is probably an expression of the stress situations people are in, but there was definitely a need to list cardiovascular diseases, because 51% of people die of cardiovascular disease in Serbia annually, and women die of cardiovascular disease there are 54.5%. It's not enough in one place, I guess you mentioned that, too, to just run a smoking campaign. It is the biggest problem, but in addition to smoking, we need to run a campaign that concerns all other causes of cardiovascular disease, and especially psychosomatic, because we are able to ignore this psychosomatic factor a lot, and the heart as an organ of emotion, as an organ that has not yet been explored, although largely transplanted, is most sensitive to psychosomatic factors, to stressful situations. So stress situations produce both cardiovascular diseases and malignant diseases largely, of course, external effects also, but also diabetes. That way you shouldn't ignore it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52739	Thank you. Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52740	They're absolute facts. What we should all send a message to the citizens is that all these things can be prevented. For that reason, we have both in this law and in those people who do not have health insurance put them on colon screenings, uterine cancer, breast cancer, that's what we're going to spread. We do counselling at psychiatric health institutions, what is one of the leading factors of cardiovascular disease, but what citizens need to know, it is – if they come to the doctor in time, if it is discovered, it is the only way to fix this. When it comes to the situation, to detect the disease, but at a more advanced stage, the odds are much less. So if we all influence it and tell those we're seeing and we hear that this opportunity is being taken advantage of, that people are being examined, that in time, it's the only way to remember that we're healthier and that we don't have so many problems that are problems and for those who get sick, for his family for society, literally, literally, literally for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52741	The word is from a colleague, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52742	The respected chairman, respected ministers, co-workers and fellow MPs, the proposed laws at today's session have the support of the JS and the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will vote for them. We have four important health laws and I will first talk about the Health Insurance Act. And for us from JS, but I mean not only for us but for anyone who has read the proposed law, one of the most important changes is that parents and severely ill children will be able to be on sick leave for as long as the treatment takes place. So far, they've been in a situation where they've had to get along in different ways. The proposed law will allow parents to be with their child until healing, up to the age of 18, with 100% compensation. So far, that compensation has been 65% of their income. Such a solution significantly improves the material condition of the children’s families with the most severe diseases. The current law gave parents the right to only four months of sickness, and since the treatment of the most severe illnesses often lasts for years, it is clear how important this amendment of the law is. It is rare that parents of children who are on long-term treatment are forced to quit, in a particularly difficult situation are those who come from other parts of Serbia, and their children are being treated in Belgrade, and if there are three parent homes in Belgrade, where there are only 13 families and I believe that soon this problem will be solved because your ministry sees the will and willingness to help the youngest patients as much as possible. Because only knowing about the disease and the healing process is difficult and stressful, especially for the child, but also for the parent himself. Statistics testify that every day one child gets cancer diagnosis, and every ten days unfortunately one child's life is extinguished. And that's why we have to be individuals, but as a society, we help these little guys because they're really superheroes. I would also like to commend the fact that you have respected the opinion of the National Association of Parents of Cancer Ministers in writing the proposed law, because they know this issue best. I would like to point out, and also to be a proposal that a great deal of help would be if parents had a difficult disease for children and children with disabilities to recognise the status of carers in order to achieve the same rights and benefits that fosterers have. I have asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs through the question, and I hope that they will soon begin to resolve it. I think that the national registry should first create how many such families in Serbia are in order to know how much money it is necessary to separate from the budget for such a solution. The new bill on health insurance also extends the right of patients who do not have insurance and certified health books, that, in addition to the right to emergency medical assistance, they will now have the right to paliative care, to carry out mandatory screening in accordance with the national programme, as well as mandatory immunisation. Now that I mention scringing, I would like to say a few words about the changes relating to departure, to regular screenings, which are predicted that, in case the insurance doesn't respond to more calls within a single cycle of screening, and in the meantime, she was ill with the disease, which could have been discovered and treated, she pays 35% of the treatment price. The public could hear various reactions, but I don't think this measure is intended to punish the insurance company, but to be an additional model to awaken awareness of the constraint of disease detection at an early stage, when the chances of healing are greater. Breast, colon, and uterine cancer are three malignancies, some 33,000 people in Serbia each year. Since breast cancer alone, about four thousand and 600 women are sick each year, and 1600 die from this disease. And on the other hand, on a call from screening mammography, each other responds, each third invited woman between 50 and 69 years of age. When it comes to breast cancer, Serbia is elsewhere in Europe, while it is fourth in terms of disease. On these cancers I mentioned and do scrinses in Serbia, if discovered at the initial stage, they can be very successfully treated. Nevertheless, experts say citizens rarely do screening checks. These data are alarming, and the most important thing is that it is compared to calls for examinations and raising awareness in the population, about the importance of responding to malignancies. For the sake of information, the Netherlands and Belgium in the law have a clause under which those who do not respond to preventive checks must pay an additional tax. The Health Insurance Act provides for another newspaper that the chosen doctor can open up to 60 days, which is twice as much as it has been, and that change is good, because it facilitates the procedure, when the patient has to continue treatment, does not have to go on board, but can end it with his doctor in case further treatment is needed. The draft health care law introduces additional work for healthcare professionals. We had this legal solution before, and according to the proposed doctors and nurses, they will be able to decide that a third of their working hours are being completed in their own institution or to enter into a contract with a maximum of three other institutions. I think it's a good idea, because the medics are unhappy with their salaries, so they'll be able to make extra money, and that would keep healthcare professionals from going abroad for a while. Additional work needs to be transparent. Mr. Lonchar, it should be strictly kept in mind that there is no rerouting of patients from regular shift to supplemental, there must be no abuse to, for example, the doctor in the regular shift examines 15 patients, and in addition to being able to examine twice as much. So there must be standards that doctors need to do on a regular shift, so they can do extra work. With frequent controls, you can rule out any kind of abuse, or in the worst case of corruption. A completely new amendment envisioned by the health care law is that private individuals who want to be implemented in health care will be able to rent space from state institutions for up to 20 years. Privates will be obliged to equip the space, and after the period, the equipment belongs to the state. It is a kind of private – public partnership and patients in these institutions would be treated for the cost of basic health insurance. It is only necessary to pay attention to the fact that appliances that remain sustainable after 20 years are not fully expended and need to set some standards there. The proposals for health insurance and protection laws corresponds to the needs of improving and reforming the health system in Serbia and clearly shows social concern for the health of the population. As such, as I said at the very beginning, Mr. Lonchar, will have full support for JS. The bill on road safety has recently attracted great public attention due to reregistering and replacing old plates on tractors, trailers and working machines. It is very important for the JS that the proposed law provides that farmers will not in future have to register tractors and agricultural machines, which have been issued permanent registrations, old license plates, but with appropriate technical correctness certificates, they will be able to use their machines. The solution is good and we from the JS see it as a wish of the government and the rest of the ministry that farmers, who are in such a difficult situation, are not exposed to additional costs. We can also note that in recent years there has been a trend in returning young people to the country, which gives hope, that the village will come to life and grow more and more. As I pointed out at the outset, the JS parliamentary group will vote for all proposed laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52743	Mr. Lonchart has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52744	Thank you. I wanted there to be no dilemma or doubt about that extra work, to clarify that. Additional work cannot be done where waiting lists exist. So that would be a serious abuse or anything. In order for someone from a state institution to be able to perform additional work, the first and basic condition is that where he works, where he works, there is no waiting list. As long as he doesn't clear the waiting list, he can't work, because that's a serious problem. The other thing is, there's exactly what that doctor has to fill in to do the extra work. So he has to work full-time at the hospital where he works, do it securely, fill out the number of patients, and then he can do it in the same hospital this afternoon. Why did we do this for hardworking people, for hardworking doctors, for hardworking sisters, who are already there, who work at the state institution to have the opportunity to stay in the same building where they are, that they don't have to go to the other one, that no one has to, possibly, blackmail them how much they're going to give them, how much they won't give them in private, that they're harassed to go to that private facility and that they're coming back and that they can work with their associates they work with in the morning. We think we're absolutely giving them that comfort to stay in the same building, that they don't have an extra time, to work with their associates and the ability to earn both them and their associates in the most legitimate way. When you make it possible, leave it to the workers, and of course we've done the polls, talked to the people, they're people too happy with it and they just want to have it. You've got people who don't want to go work with a private for whatever reason, we've got nothing again. We didn't limit anyone from leaving with two or three other private institutions to make a deal and be there, to go once in a while, as far as he chooses, but to do his job. I forgot to say a little while ago, they mentioned intrachospital infections here, that Serbia was the only one in the region that allowed independent institutions to come and carry out the most detailed analysis and what they had found, and that affected that we put our health care right where it is, that we reduced something about 20% by intra-hospital infections, and the maltenes everywhere increased that number, which is an exceptional, exceptional result. The other thing is they've reduced the use of antibiotics. The use of antibiotics in the sense that people take without being prescribed by doctors. Once again, I appeal to everyone in the pharmacies where people started to show up, that they gave up discipline in pharmacies and betray, or give antibiotics without prescription. Gentlemen, as soon as possible, the inspection will begin, and whoever violates this rule will most strictly be sanctioned under the law. Don't think about pharmacies that you're above the law. This is the best I can tell you, don't destroy the immunity of our citizens, our children to be resistant to antibiotics and all things tomorrow. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52745	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go. Guys, when you ask for a word and I give you a word, you don't touch the button anymore, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52746	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, thank you for your suggestions. We have very important laws, very good laws, laws that are very modern and that will be of great benefit to our citizens. I must say that I am satisfied with the work of this ministry, as are most of the MPs, and I stress that I am someone who comes from the interior and that the good and quality work of this ministry is really reflected and feels good on other parts, that is, the interior and other parts of the country, meaning, not only in large centres where clinical centres are. Why am I satisfied? I'm not only satisfied with subjectively, but someone measured it, there's a European index of users of health services that showed what actually this ministry led to with this minister worked and that in just five years from the unsalted last or the last place we came to 18 places and the past much more developed, richer countries, such as Italy, Spain or Poland for the quality of health services that actually measure this index and that's something to be commended. Since I, like most of our colleagues, specialize, have completed other educations at the Clinical Centre, I am really proud of what is currently being done, which is the most important institution of the Clinical Centre of Serbia as a provider of health but also as part of scientific and research work within the framework of human education, what is happening today with the Clinical Centro. For forty years, the Clinical Center has not been touched by fingertips and is truly a wonderful feeling, and so are those of us who come from the interior, giving us one additional security and additional motivation that the time has come for this country's health to really take great steps forward and that's something for every commendation. That tower, a recognizable polyclinic, is really going to dominate the city of Belgrade and to all of us is a lighthouse that we provide medical services and that is something that this ministry has actually managed to present in this mandate. Since 2014, large changes in the medical system and legislation, as well as human resources, have been invested in equipment that has not been restored for 20 or 30 years and which today can really compete with the most modern centres, are the most modern appliances in the field of diagnostics, but also in the field of therapeutic service provision. The introduction of an information system that improves, the practical transparency of the introduction of an electronic recipe is something that one can only praise. What openness shows this Ministry is exactly the best example of what has now been mentioned by the distinguished minister, which is that doors and foreign experts are open and that indeed the number of intrachospital infections has decreased, that Serbia is below average, there are far less of these infections than in many modern countries of Europe, which is commendable for all of them. As far as personnel solutions are concerned, this ministry has done a lot. We know it's a problem today, it's economic migration, people are going, not just medics, but other professions, but unlike other dams, this ministry has made a solution. We've put an end to the fact that there's got to be a specialization waiting. Last year, 1509 specialization was given, and a total of 7135 specialization was given. It is a huge number and most of them today will almost end or end in the next year or next and we, thanks to one precaution and the good looks of this ministry and its quality leadership, have managed to overwork and practically solve the problem that has arisen and which could escalate. Of course, it was employed as much as it could be employed, and that's not a small number, about 12,000 healthcare workers, which is quite a number. Should it have waited since 2005 to discuss the new law today, I don't know, but I do know that it justifies that we need to adopt it as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. I must stress that the adoption of this law preceded a serious public debate that really gave all interested parties the opportunity to engage in its adoption. It is very important, and I keep stressing that this ministry does not only care about four major clinical centres, which will be completely restored. You know what the Nish Clinical Center looks like. It's a KC that can mate every American health institution in relation to its infrastructure, and I believe very quickly and in relation to the cadre. They were not neglected by other small centres and I on behalf of the health center, i.e. on behalf of the General Hospital of Novi Pazar I really want to thank you, that this ministry has really heard about this area, that it has helped us at all times and human and counselling and has enabled us to very well restore our equipment and to have a quality walk. During this term, the city of Novi Pazar, that part of Serbia, received its Public Health Institute. Angio Hall, as necessary, has entered the network. This minister has indeed done a great deal in the field of planning and improving the health care facility in all parts of our country. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, they come as, I'll say, as the crown of this ministry's work so far. These two laws, you all know, are crucial and it really would take me a long time to count which quality solutions they make. First of all, improvement, I'm talking about the health care law at the beginning, improvement, although they persecute each other, I think a much more important humane relationship with the patient and what is clearly seen in people who have proposed the law, that they really want to go out to every patient, every sick person to meet and expand, practically, his rights within our system, which is a humane and great gesture in this country which, I must say, is a poor country that really has a lot of problems that we're trying to solve together in walking. Improving the position of parents of sick children is certainly something to be commended and they, you know, have received 65% of their salaries under conditions as they deal with or care about their sick children. That's what this new law is going to do. The fee will be 100%. The position of parents whose youngsters suffer from malignant, metabolic, and chronic illnesses will be improved in this sense that they will be able to be with their children until their child’s age, or 18 years of age, which is something that is really important to mention. Longer sick. The new law lays down issues concerning sickness. The paper is that the chosen doctor, as a cornerstone of our entire health system, as something we rely on in our overall health response, is given more attention, more importance, but, of course, under the conditions of equal control, they will be able to pay their patients, not as they have so far, at 30, but at 60 days, with this, which will continue for the first 30 days by the employer, and by 31 days, the sick will pay RFZO. Medical attention and no medical records. There, in the subtitle itself, means, once again, a more humane approach, again significantly better, because according to the current law, those who did not have a certified health book, were entitled only to emergency medical assistance. However, this new bill, which is ahead of us today, health insurance, provides that citizens without a health book can also receive palitative care, and a palitative care is an active and comprehensive concern for patients suffering from severe and incurable diseases, but will also be available to them with mandatory vaccines. They're going to have the right to immunize, to scringing exams, which is really a big, big deal. Palitative care, or care of dying patients, regardless of the type and type of disease, will fall in general on the burden of insurance. This care will mean removing psychological and physical suffering, or the pain of a health care professional. What is already mentioned and what is likely to be mentioned by other colleagues are preventive checks, screenings that are now being insisted on. It is indeed a new approach and legal and something to be commended for. We doctors and all who know something about medicine know that preventive is a crucial matter and know how important it is to work on prevention. We see that currently three screenings are done in Serbia -- uterus cancer for three years, colon cancer for two years and breast cancer for a year. The practice of preventive checks in early detection of three other diseases - cardiovascular diseases, depression and diabetes is expected to begin. I have to say that scringing some diseases means treating them completely. I'll take, for example, colon cancer which, I might say, is an epidemic. We have an epidemic, especially in my area and in areas where people are slightly neglecting quality, i.e. healthy nutrition, where they bring in a lot of meat, red and dried meat, where we have a really big problem with colon cancer today and that it's screening, as well as in many other diseases, the only way to cope with this severe illness, because in the process of screening, and screening in this case is colonoscopy, which is done in all patients after 50 years, if it's found on some precancerosis, and it's a very simple review, for example, if you see a certain adenoma, a certain structure, its removal, we have both a therapeutic model and complete healing of patients, which is completely treated with a small amount of funds. Everything else is dangerous and deadly for the patient and therefore, what is insisting on 35% that if patients do not respond to screenings several times, I think that three times if the call is rejected, is something that is really a good measure to make patients serious, that we care about their health, but that they have to show at the end and responsibility both to themselves and to the community that separates huge resources for treating patients. Advocacy without instruction is another newspaper that is passed by this law and something to be commended. It's about the doctor's extra work. It is something that is very well solved in this law, but also in a private public partnership, where private medical institutions will be able to take space from state institutions for up to 20 years if one of these state institutions has a space that does not benefit and can single out. Privates will be obliged to provide space even after the lease period expires, when they move out, the equipment belongs to the state. Patients in medical institutions, based on a public-private partnership, would be treated for the cost of basic health insurance. Entrepreneurial treatment would pay RFO. This is something that we are approaching the most modern European health models and I must say that this law is something very similar and something that brings us closer to the legislation that we have in the EU, which is the most modern and modern way of solving the medical response to patients. In the end, there is a possibility of an extra for better conditions, which is very important. I will end up, in the end, with another measure passed by these laws, which is that the health homes are returning again and will be run by the Ministry of Health and will be part of the health institutions, that they will return to the health ministry's jurisdiction. The experience so far has shown that this model of separate homes of health, belonging to local self-government, did not provide adequate and quality solutions. There was an increase in the number of nonmedical staff. Debts have grown, and it's all an argument. Probably the best argument is that there will be better synchronization in human planning and that is something that also brings this new law and something is very important. Finally, I want to thank you once again for these quality laws that the SDP will warmly support and I want to invite you to continue working on reform and improving the health response in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52747	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52748	Thank you. I'm just going to brief on what we're getting that health care homes are going to be integrated into the Ministry of Health. You know the examples now. You in one yard in most cases have both a home of health and a general hospital, perhaps some institute, an institution or anything. What we're saying right now is that we're telling the truth, communication between the home of health and that hospital in the same yard, in most cases, there isn't. Some say, those in the home of health -- we don't belong to you, we look to local self-government, they choose our director, they determine our board of directors. As you know, the RFO defines the means to function, to work, and these are wages, they're drugs, they're expendable material and everything that's necessary and the hospital that's at the Ministry of Health. Then you have a health situation where you have nonmedical staff, legal, economical, all those services that need to exist, and you have that same thing three feet away from them in the hospital. They're all doing the same job. So that's where we double people to do the job, where one team whether from a health home or from a hospital could do that job because there aren't many changes from year to year, possibly some things are added, and that job has entered a routine where it has to be accounted for, but there's nothing spectacular about what it's supposed to be. One team of a number of people would be quite enough to do all the work that is necessary to do, and we can receive medical personnel at the place of that other team, and we should receive doctors, nurses and all that is necessary and all that will be relieved and better for all patients. So that's one thing, to say it's open and concrete, which is why it's not that someone's going to get fired, that someone's going to go from that nonmedical. So, we're just not going to when they get retirement or go somewhere else, not take nonmedical staff, we're going to take medical staff, give people specialization, give them training, train these people to be our best experts. You have the following situation, they're in the same yard, you have a health specialist, and there's maybe more than one gynecologist in the same hospital, and in that same yard, you have a hospital that can't cover duty because gynecologists work in the morning, and then they have an infirmary and all that. Now, since the law was the way it was, you couldn't have these people from the home of health doing the duty in a hospital that's three meters away, and that people from the hospital, specialists doing the infirmary and helping out in the health care home when necessary. Can you imagine that absurd? Everyone called for it – we belong to these, we can't get into the hospital, and those in the health care home can't get into the hospital, and the hospital can't get into the home of health. Who suffered? Suffering patients, patients dissatisfied, of course. They think now they won't take matters into their own hands, they won't get organized. Why? They don't usually speak to the director of health care and hospitals, because everyone has a superior and they don't want to see each other, not communicate, possibly through the head nurse. Guys, that's our reality and we have to change that. So, don't pretend, laugh, most of you laugh, but that's how it is, you know that everybody comes to you and says, well, this one won't, this one's looking for protection in the community, this one's looking here at the ministry, let's just not work. They go home, they let people go, they had nothing to do all day, they let them go home, and these guys here can't get together, they can't cover duty at the hospital. Then you have overtime, so can you pay, do this, do that. You know everything. On the back of the health system. Now with this done, there's no difference. When you have to do the infirmary, you'll do it in a health care facility, when you're supposed to be on duty, you'll be on duty at the hospital, you'll only imagine who this benefit is, how much we'll get, how many people we'll be able to keep on duty and how many people we'll be able to do more and how many people who'll be able to do more work in the infirmary and there'll be less traffic for health specialists, because everyone in the hospital will be able to get down to the infirmary and do tests, diagnostics, anything that's necessary. When you're using the same facilities, the crowd is on an X-ray at the health home, and the second they cross five meters from there to the hospital to do an X-ray or a lab, this thing's broken down, so it can't, I'll do it here. The X-rays at the hospital broke down, but they're gonna do it in the health care home, which wasn't the case until now, they're looking over the gun. So look how much better it is for patients, see how much savings it is, and see how much more we're going to hire medical workers, or doctors and nurses. It's just part of what's going to get us to be the victims of some policy and something that's been done, to satisfy the place, to have that part, not to talk about debts. Don't just forget one thing, there isn't a home of health in Serbia, I'm responsible for telling you, which the Republic, the state, the ministry and the fund didn't pay the funds to pay the salaries, pay the medicines, pay the electricity, the water, everything that's necessary to make it work. It was all transferred to them, but they didn't pay for what money was transferred to them, but they paid for something that was right for them. Then the debts grew, the people sued, the interest came, the executions arrived, what's going on? There's no money, because they're on the other side that they shouldn't have given up and we're going to the blockade. Then they come in front of the ministry to say -- we're in a blockade, we can't work. People, by law, you can't pay the same thing twice. The state already paid for it once, and you didn't. We didn't have any control to escort it out and do it, because I say the director is from a local, board of directors of local self-government, nor can we set it up, nor can we replace the rest. When all this happened, they came before the ministry, in front of the government to pay for it, and they didn't say it was already paid or eventually – no, that's what someone did before me, so I just moved on. No responsibility whatsoever. Please, just so you understand, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I'm just saying that when it's put on this level, that everyone is in the joint service, that they're all in the joint business. When a good organization is made, how much better it will be for the citizens of Serbia, who know how much they have a problem with primary protection and somewhere objectively, but now with this we will be able to fix a lot and get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52749	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52751	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, here is this long-awaited set of laws – a bill on health insurance, since this law was last passed in 2005, we have been looking forward to some new solutions. The reason for the adoption of the Health Insurance Act is to improve the health insurance system by harmonising it with other regulations directly related to the organisation of health care. This law achieves one integrity, a health insurance arrangement through a large number of newspapers, which are indeed commendable. This newspaper extends the scope of mandatory health insurance rights. An accurate range of health care services is covered by health insurance through health care services established by the nomenclature and the healthcare service pricer, provided by the means of compulsory health insurance, including preventive checks on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds, through mandatory screening checks and under the national programme. Recognizing the general state of disease and diseases that can be prevented or discovered in time, this is a newspaper of great importance for the individual, because the insured person who responds to screening does not participate in health care costs, as all costs are covered by the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The introduction of new insurance bases and for farmers will solve their big problem, as the largest number of unsecured persons is from the ranks of farmers. A long-standing problem with the insurance of persons who receive pensions exclusively from a foreign insurance carrier has been recognised, with residence or residence in Serbia, persons who have the status of a fighter or persons who are victims of terrorism, military people with disabilities and civilian war. This bill extended the rights of compulsory health insurance through preventive and all family planning reviews, and that is another objective of this government, which affirms and promotes population policy. Data is the possibility of extending the right to profit during temporary prevention due to the care of members of the child's family up to the age of 18, when the amount of compensation is 100% or when the child has more serious health problems by the age of 18. This law extends the calculation of the base of profit from compulsory health insurance funds to 12 months for more rational use of funds, preventing abuses by the employer and by the insurance company. Except for emergency medical care that has so far been mandatory for people who do not have health insurance, this bill will cover the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the cost of paliative care, mandatory screening programs, as well as mandatory immunisation that protects the population from infectious diseases. The chosen physician, as a health care provider, could so far determine the length of temporary prevention for the work of the insurance company for up to 30 days. In the future, it will be 60 days, making it easier for the insured person to exercise this right, but what concerned the employers remained unchanged to pay the salary for that period, so that the employer, as so far, pays up to 30 days, and from 31 days, the Republic Health Insurance Fund has taken over the obligation. The newspaper is also that a specialist doctor who treats an insurance company can refer him to a stationary treatment and thus facilitates the right to hospital treatment. The extended scope of insurance rights which are governed by one or both breast mastectomy by providing for reconstruction or correction on the burden of compulsory health insurance funds, and the establishment of a single waiting list run by the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It is introduced, alongside mandatory, and voluntary health insurance, as part of health insurance. The Republic Fund may, in accordance with the rules governing a public-private partnership, conclude a contract with a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur. Both health institutions outside the network plan and private practice that have concluded a contract with the Fund will be able to use the centralised public procurement of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. This Bill proposal, through newspapers, but also improved, found states, provides an opportunity for a comprehensive, better protection and the Republic Health Insurance and Insurance Fund, as well as healthcare providers. The bill on health care is regulated, another system of great importance, through organised care for the health of the population, general interest in health care and supervision of its implementation. The new draft law monitors the improvement of the reforms introduced in health care, brings together social concerns about the health of the population from the Republic, the AP, local self-government units, employers and each individual, and aims at a more rational and efficient health care of the population. The adoption of fundamental rights in public-owned health institutions by the Republic, i.e. the AP, is one of the types of rationalisation. The health system is reintroduced by health centres, general hospitals and a home of health, whose founder is the Republic, except for a pharmacy that is the founder of local self-government units. The plan regulation will provide for what health centres there will be. One more step to the better. New categories of insurance companies are being introduced, which will be covered by social care for health, young unemployed persons at school, up to 26 years of age, refugees, exiled, displaced persons who are unemployed and with lower incomes resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as persons with fighting status, military people with disabilities, civilian people with disabilities, persons who are provided, except mandatory, and recommended immunisation, as well as persons who are victims of terrorism. The Republic Health Fund recognised the general interest in the protection of public health preventive, as well as screening checks, protection at work of health care providers, their training through specialisations, rope specialisations, continuous staff security for the replacement of absent selected doctors during the period of specialisation, collective insurance of public health care professionals, procurement, medical and non-medical equipment services, as well as equipment in the field of integrated health information system in health institutions. The conditions for establishing private practice have also been facilitated. The health institution can be established in accordance with the rules governing a public private partnership, and the health institution is registered, instead of in the court register, as so far, in the register of the Agency for Business Registers and thus obtaining a single register of health institutions. A contract with the employer on additional work, as well as a supplemental contract with another employer is also a newspaper. This draft law amends the conditions for the appointment of directors, board members and supervisory boards. Many colleagues have asked about this newspaper because there are some misunderstandings left. At the primary level of healthcare, they are conducted as a new Institute for Laboratory Diagnosis, Radiological Diagnostics and Paliatical Care, as well as a health institution - polyclinics. Therefore, through all these measures organisations of health institutions, private practices, health care development strategy through the resolution of founding rights, the introduction of new aspects of health care for the population, in particular the introduction of healthcare that has not been regulated so far, conditions are being created for an even more humane, rational and quality health care system. A few sentences and a draft law on general use cases. This bill aims to bring national legislation into line with EU law, as well as to control a particular group of cases of general use through health and safety at all stages of production and transport in order to protect the health of the population. The new law introduces the obligation to report unwanted effects of cosmetic products and others to analyse the market, market surveillance, as well as inform consumers, clearer definitions, certain concepts, and thus facilitate and operate entrepreneurs of general use. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, also amends and supplements of the Precursors Act, establishes one system of monitoring those substances in all stages of production, from processing or traffic in co-operation with the Ministry of Customs, as well as reporting to the International Bureau for Narcotics Control. Rapid pre-export checks to improve the exchange of information on potential risks related to precurrers, i.e. their possible abuse in the production of drugs and psychoactive substances. These legal solutions facilitate the business of legal persons in the reduction of documentation, the reduction of deadlines for issuing a production permit, the professional holding of those responsible for production and the implementation of this law are defined as being provided for in the budget. We believe that these laws have their weight, that it was high time they improved and the SPS parliamentary group would support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52752	The word has a colleague, Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52753	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of health laws ahead of us, and I would like to stress that the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party in voting day will support this set of laws. I want to say that the quality work of this ministry is very visible, that Serbia is on the list of the European Health System in front of 14 countries, which is very important data and shows how much we have done in healthcare in recent years. I would like to commend the salary increase, but also the 200m-euro investment planned in the next period for the reconstruction of different institutions, hospitals, not only in Belgrade, but throughout the interior: in Loznica, in Leskovac, Gornji Milanovac, Arangelovac, Smederjevska Palanca. I would like to commend the work of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases “Dedenje 2”, the Infectious Clinic that really requires an emergency reconstruction, the new building “The People's Front”, etc. It's really done a lot, it's quite planned in the coming period, but first of all, these laws were needed to create a framework where we can function more effectively, where doctors and hospital staff can really provide the services that citizens need. These laws create an extended basis for insurance and the scope of law. Three new categories of population are introduced: young unemployed, persons with fighter status or evasive persons, persons recommended for immunisation and victims of terrorism. The laws that are before us are human and for this reason will bring satisfaction to citizens, as they facilitate significant treatment, reduce waiting lines for different reviews. You set an example of what it looked like in practice, when we have a home of health and a hospital in one same yard, and they can't in any way, nor doctors, nor can some different appliances help each other, but they create waiting lists and citizens simply become dissatisfied and come at risk of developing different diseases, and we've just talked about screening and how important it is to discover everything if it's discovered at the very beginning that it's treatable. For us from the Socialist Movement, I would stress that the most important thing is that these laws are human and that they take a man as the primary in the entire health process and put him in an equal position with all citizens, whether he lives in Belgrade or lives in the interior. We also have this proposal to introduce paid transportation if someone is 50 kilometers away from his first health care facility. I would point out that for us it is important to improve the situation of the parents of the sick children. It's important to them, psychologically allows them to realize that they're not alone, that we realize how difficult they are and that we're here to help them. It also improves their material but social position and the ability to contribute better to the treatment of their children. What's also being singled out and what's also a human aspect of these laws is that those who don't have medical books now, besides being able to be referred to emergency medical care, can also be referred to as paliatical care when we talk about very severe diseases. This is important for the entire population, they are also involved in this whole immunisation and vaccination process, as well as screening checks, which allows for an improved position for all citizens when we talk about spreading certain diseases. Finally, we realized the importance of preventive examinations. We almost had information about some first to say, preliminary information about what the 1999 bombing contributed, that each family had almost one member who had malignancy, which is a catastrophic data, but it wasn't something we were aware of. It is therefore important that the citizens of Serbia do not understand these screenings, which are mandatory, as some form of punishment, but should understand that this is a way to help them, to detect all these diseases, if any, in an early period, where there is a possibility for their complete treatment, which is, as you said, important for the patient himself, but also for his family and for all citizens of Serbia. There are currently three screenings for uterus cancer, colon and breast cancer, but it is very important that you also introduce screening for cardiovascular diseases, which are so widespread with us. The new law also determines the additional work of a doctor who is important, so that in some legal frameworks, so that those who want to work more can work, but also that we can get to the possibility that exactly what we've talked about, reduce these waiting lines, that citizens come to their necessary checks as soon as possible and make the most of these working personnel that are already working, that they can examine as many patients as possible. Also, an important newspaper is the possibility of an extra for better treatment conditions if someone needs better medical rehabilitation. I've already mentioned free transport, which puts citizens in a completely equal situation, because everyone's guaranteed the right, simple treatment. I would like to stress that we are in agreement with all the laws that are before us today, because we think they are very good and that finally health care, it is already progressing years ago, but that this will really allow all these investments that we have to enable Serbian citizens to be treated much more effectively in the future. To repeat that this human aspect of these laws is most important to us from the Socialist Movement. That's why I want to thank everyone who participated in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52754	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52755	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, on my personal behalf and on behalf of the Members of the SNS, I am pleased that the health laws have been re-emerged in the assembly benches and we are discussing them here. What is very significant is that today we are talking about laws that are bearing, or roof, in the area of health care. Namely, the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act regulates vital areas of health care and therefore it is necessary to enter today's debate with a maximum dose of seriousness. And also, what I'm saying is, I think that when it comes to health care, when it comes to the health of the population in this assembly hall, we kind of talk more from the point of view of citizens and from the aspect of a human aspect than from the position of politicians and MPs. What I would like to say is that I am looking at today's bill so that I really understand the proposal's desire, on the one hand, to bring the citizens' continuing need for health care into line, and then the needs of citizens to increase the scope of the mandatory health insurance rights on the one hand, and the real financial opportunities of our country on the other hand. First of all, I'm going to sum up and briefly expose a few of the most significant changes in these bill proposals, which are the following – we know where we are currently on world lists, I'm talking about malignancies and I'm talking about dying from malignancies. What's very important is that we have to align these trends, I'm talking about this second parameter, it's the mortality of malignant diseases, and it's definitely best done primarily by intense insistence on cryinism. What is very important, what I noticed in the proposal of both laws is their harmony, especially the apropo of this topic. In the Health Protection Act, we have a member of the bill that says that screening should be mandatory for the insurance company, I am talking about targeted health checks, and the Health Insurance Act has already highlighted the criminal provisions. Otherwise, I'm not a supporter of criminal provisions, but in this case, by analysing the scope of different screenings, I can say that this is the only possible way to get to a larger scope and get to tomorrow's results in terms of reducing the mortality of malignancies. It's very important, and that's why this is the only way to make preventive checks binding and I think it's the only possible way. In parallel with these proposals, I think that very good solutions are related to patients treated in paliatic wards, i.e. they suffer from incurable diseases, where the bill practically contains one member who speaks of that all paliable patients will have a complete solution to this mandatory health insurance, completely resolved on the cost of the fund. I think that with such legal solutions and in such an extent we come to a situation that we make our society more humane and a place better for life. As well as the proposal concerning the amount of 100% compensation for all those who have had professional illnesses, for all those who are donors of tissues, cells and organs, as well as for parents who have children who have severe malignancies. I think this bill too, this lawman who talks about the problem is deeply human and I absolutely support it from a human point of view. What we have long waited for, and what I see in the bill of law, is the final transfer of the founding rights of the primary health care facility to the Republic. In fact, most of us witnessed a unfortunately difficult and ugly period of ex-government when unfortunately we witnessed disintegration of existing health centres and these large institutions of primary and secondary health care. Why do I say – unfortunately? I'm saying because it was only done for political reasons, because it was done to create small political fronts in these primary health care facilities for the reception of personnel, for I don't know what. What we have as a result of all of this, we have accumulated debts, debts of primary protection institutions, we have a problem functioning the health system in our health homes, we have a problem of irrational use of all health resources, we have a disorganization problem. It's all something that definitely had to make us think that returning to organizations in terms of the health center was only possible. I expect everything contrary to what I've said. I expect a better organization, better healthcare, more rational application of all those resources that possess these institutions and what is most important – a more satisfactory patient because, remember, gentlemen, what is most important is the patient and the patient must be in the health system headquarters. I think this is just one step towards that road. In addition, I would like to mention several solutions that are very important, which I can say will provide more effective health care. Let's get in line. It is proposed that a specialist doctor who treats a secure face as instructed by a selected doctor may direct that person to a stationary treatment if he considers it necessary. This is a very important change of law because it shortens the path. It shortens the patient's path from the moment of diagnosis to the moment of hospitalisation and treatment, which is the essential thing, you'll agree. Afterwards, a health care package for compulsory health insurance has been established. I think that's a good starting point for further action. To establish a package of basic services is something we should have had before, but it is essential that it be contained in this law and essential that we know that every resident of this country, every citizen of this country knows what he has, knows what health care services can count on. The possibility is introduced to extend the right to make a profit due to the care of members of the family from severe child diseases to 18 years of age. I've already mentioned it and it's something that is undoubtedly of great importance and there is a human aspect of this part of the law. Then, more specifically, it is arranged to achieve health care abroad. It's been arranged so far. This act shall be done in more detail and in more detail. Then, the scope of existing compulsory health insurance rights is expanded. We now have a very significant moment in the state. In fact, our economy back a few years shows remarkable results. We have a significant increase in GDP. Last year, that increase was 4.2%. It is essential that this GDP increase monitors the expansion of the basic package of services of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. So every citizen feels through health care that we're doing better. What's very important is that this is regulated legally in terms of this law, or the bill I'm talking about, which is that this basic package has definitely expanded. Voluntary health insurance is also arranged. According to the applicable law, voluntary health insurance was regulated by a sublegal act in force. Mandatory health insurance was regulated by law, voluntary under the law. In this way, I think that even in a legal sense one balance is established and voluntary and mandatory. Voluntary health insurance has found its place in the bill of this law. Also, a period has been extended for which the selected doctor can determine the length of the sick period from 30 days to 60 days, without changing the regulation in terms of payment of obligations. So, the first 30 days remain for the employer, then the Republic Health Insurance Fund pays. Why does this matter? It's important again for the patients. This way this area will be arranged in a different way. The patient will no longer have to go on board again, etc. It is essential that he may extend up to 60 days the temporary prevention to work with his chosen physician. Then, conditions for establishing private practice were made easier. In fact, if we want a quality and healthy health system, we must have, in addition to the legal provisions, which are tangling the state sector, we must have relaxing and adequate legal provisions that are tangling, or which are tangling the private sector. In this case it is easier to form a rope specialist office, also a polyclinic, private practice, in every sense it is regulated, and if private practice can in one period and freeze the period of its operation, that is, its work, its performance, of course, is carried out for a certain period of time, which is absolutely understandable. It is precisely because of the limitations of time, that I will now look at two other laws, so besides health insurance or health care here there are bill proposals concerning and tang the subject of general use and precursors. As far as the draft law on general application matters is concerned, I can say that the law is very high-quality and I think that the essence of its coming here to Parliament is not only to comply with EU legislation and regulation and the area in respect of developed European countries, but I would say that one consideration and control of all those cases which were not seen and not covered by existing legal acts. I think these legal solutions, from this bill, I'm talking about the bill of general application, that in an adequate way, this area will be regulated. I am speaking specifically here and stressing the importance of this customs law, of border crossings, etc. Because with this law, we'll also have high security in this area. The same situation is also the case with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Substances Act used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotrophic substances. The most important thing in this law is traceability, i.e. the ability to track the precursor from production, through traffic, and we do it together for the MUP and, of course, the Office for International Drug Control. So as far as this law is concerned, it has also been defined and agreed with its nomenclature of the legislative EU and something that will certainly be one of the laws of pride for this parliament. All in all, I suggest first, I think it will be a very fruitful debate. I'm not just talking in principle, I'm talking in particular. I have no dilemma that in the voting day I will plead yes to these four proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52756	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? We're moving on to a discussion in order of Members of the People's Parliament. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52757	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the adoption of a set of proposed laws because we are assessing the solutions offered as a very important step towards improvements in the fields that treat these laws. I will specifically refer to the laws regarding health insurance and health care. I think there is a particular emphasis on the additional protection of those categories that are particularly endangered, such as students, of certain social categories. In fact, the humanization of our entire society through the state system, and actually based on these and these laws, is something that is most important in every society, in this case and in our society. To the extent that we are dedicated to certain endangered categories, we bear witness to our quality. The quality of every society, every elite, each system is actually measured by sensitivity and relation to the most endangered categories. From the position of the party I represent, I consider this to be very important, and therefore I give full support to these laws, and also to the overall orientation of the legislative authorities now, and then to the executive authorities with regard to the implementation and improvement of practices through the implementation of these laws. However, I would like to draw attention, as usual, to the fact that, in fact, the very good laws are being subdued in certain segments of implementation, but here I am primarily throwing a beam of light at the organization of certain responsibilities, when it comes to health care in the Sandzak area, because we have that even so vivid example where, for example, pregnant women from the village, say Duga Poljan, in the area of the Sjenica municipality, Duga Poljana is, for example, just 30 kilometers away from Novi Pazar, in certain situations of complications of childbirth and has to drive to Užica, which is 150 and more kilometers away, and especially the desperately bad roadway. We have a situation where the lives of both pregnant women and children themselves are at risk. This picture, for example, invites us to use these legal solutions, but even more importantly through further implementation and organisation which, I believe, is being resolved by sublegal acts, but this draws attention to the Ministry of Health that such cases should be or should be resolved as soon as possible, so that a particular organisation and jurisdiction of general hospitals, health homes and overall health infrastructure should be subject to the needs of citizens, i.e. the needs of the patient himself and the needs of the human being. There are other examples, but now you wouldn't be wasting any time, but these fields will probably prove our overall consistency. I would also like to support the Transport and Traffic Protection Act. So it is also one of the very important laws and, as seen from the attached, is the adoption of very important European standards, either because they are European or because they are high quality, but again I want to draw attention to that the best legal solutions they have for traffic protection cannot give good solutions if we have bad roads. Again, an example from the Sandzak area, although we have some steps, although we have some political ideas and intentions and agreements, and within the state of Serbia, but also with Turkey, it is necessary to fix the road infrastructure as soon as possible in order for this law to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52758	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52759	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that I will support and vote in favour of the Bill on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which I would like to ask the Proposer to bear in mind that the problem of registration of tractors and connected machines is not treated under the same conditions as registration, or technical inspection of passenger cars, because you cannot find in the village any trailer that does not have rust, for example, and that may be the reason that the trailer does not pass the technical examination. I understand that there has to be a stick of light, that it has to have brakes, that it has to have fuses on those locks, or hooks for closing pages, etc., but there's not one piece that's got rust, that's impossible in agricultural works, given that they're pulling both stables and everything else. Secondly, when it comes to the proposal for a health insurance law, I would ask the minister and his associates to try to bring some of the terms they use in the text of the law in line with Serbian. For example, participation is not a Serbian word, we use it, it's a foreigner, it's a participation in paying costs. It's in Article 34. Then, a member of the 38th refund, too. Then, Article 53, I do not understand the measures to prevent early detection of disease point 3. – preventive dental and prophylactic measures for the prevention of mouth and tooth disease in pregnant women and children until 18 years of age. Why not the pensioner? It's the poorest category, they've paid full-time contributions, especially those pensioners who have below the minimum pension amount, or receive. What's a pensioner doing with five or seven thousand dinars a month to pay with a dentist, especially in agriculture? Then, Article 110, if I'm not mistaken, point 2. – health care that is not provided by compulsory health insurance, medical examinations for enrolment in high school, higher education institutions. Why should students and students pay the costs of medical examinations, i.e. issuing assurances if schooling is free in Serbia? If it's not free, then let's say it's all paid. The proposal for a law on general use cases, Article 4 in English, Russian, Macedonian and Bulgarian is written – detergents, Serbian says detergents. It's everywhere in the content of this law in a very large number of places. Monitoring is not a Serbian word. Point 26. in Article 6. Take care when you formulate a sentence in which you have the term ministry. Let's put it this way, an authorized laboratory is an accredited laboratory that has the authority of the Ministry of Health Affairs. It can also be associated with a ministry that does not exist, which is the Ministry of Health Affairs. It's probably meant as a resorient department. There's a number of places like that. Then, the word transparency. Then Article 12, too, working groups of the Ministry of Border Product Categorisation. I hope that's enough and that this text of the law can significantly improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52760	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very important to me to the Traffic Safety Act. Serbia, in which the coalition took over management in 2012, has found a completely derelict and abandoned state. Same thing was in the farm. In the 1990s, therefore, agriculture was burdened by social, economic and military pressures on our country and was a guarantee of the food security of the population. We who did this remember that no tycoon who then smuggled cigarettes, gasoline, etc. He didn't do agriculture. Our dream was that after democratic changes, states would help to renew and restore the mechanism, that is, that everything that was caused by social pressures was abandoned, that it would be renewed and that the state would help. Instead, we got tycoons from farmers, called farmers of the Latifundi and we got a joint criminal enterprise that is not present today, which boycotts the national session and does not occur to them to support this law. The pipeline paid for the machinery, it's not renewed, it's not renewed, and we currently have 400,000 two-axial tractors and over 180 thousand single-axle tractors on 650 thousand agricultural holdings. These tractors, according to current law, are scheduled to register every year next month. By amending this law, farmers will only be obliged to have a certificate of technical examination. It is therefore necessary to welcome these amendments and amendments to the laws of the People's Parliament, and the Government has also come to the meeting, which has greatly simplified the registration of agricultural machinery, i.e. tractors and certain vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the incentives that the joint criminal enterprise delivered to farmers weren't enough, in 2012, it was 19 billion, now it's about 44 billion, so it's 130% higher both in dinars and in euros. But I continue to appeal to the government, given that we have renewed about three thousand tractors, and since there are 400,000 of them, over the next 20 years about 20,000 machines, or agricultural tractors, should be renewed every year, so that they will have an average age of 10 years. It's not our fault that those from the joint criminal enterprise of machinery manufacturers, primarily IMT and Dragon, destroyed wild privatisations, sucked out capital, crying, etc. and let them go to waste. At this point, it is up to farmers to rebuild that mechanism and what the government has done, to encourage about three thousand agricultural tractors with 50-60%, to continue. I urge the Government to find additional funds, whether from a budget reserve or from other funds, but mostly to continue this programme of renewal and renewal of tractors, and the connection mechanism is still in that programme. I believe that when we invest in agriculture, we'll gain productivity and efficiency, and we'll get traffic safety. As for these health laws, I urge the Ministry of Health to, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, find ways to liquidate in a certain way the debts of farmers for health insurance and retirement, because at this point it is 200 billion and it is a stone that hangs all farmers in Serbia. I also want to say, by supporting these laws, I am aware that he who is healthy is a young man, that even the sickest king sees a healthy poor crown on his head. Better to be a healthy poor than a sick king. So I support all the laws that come from the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52762	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52763	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, long-declared health insurance and health care laws are finally in the assembly procedure. Although I am not a member of the Health and Family Committee, I have seen these drafts of the law through certain forums and, as you like to say, I have followed the public debates of doctors mostly on the Internet media, and I have watched these opinions and their remarks. This time we present clear SRS views when it comes to improving the health system in general in Serbia, because these are the problems that are mostly inherited. Health has been collapsing for decades. The yellow mob government has been around for almost 15 years, but come on for 12 years, it's been robbing Serbia and the Fund and Kostunica's government, especially through numerous non-existent projects in Kosovo and Metohija, that I don't remind them that they're out of washed money and ended up in somebody's pockets, in the southern Serbian province they might just lay the foundation, and no hospitals anywhere, no hospitals, no hospitals. All this now puts us in a position where we want to have better health care in Serbia, and the question is, how? The country is in a rather difficult economic state because everything that needs to be financed in the area of health comes from citizens. So from mandatory social protection, from the highest economy, entrepreneurs and, of course, there is a certain percentage, not a small percentage, there is also a system of public administration and employees in public enterprises. But if you look at what is given to people for this mandatory health insurance money, we come up with very difficult questions and painful questions for every man who needs medical attention. He then wondered, if he came into a situation that he could not provide himself with timely specialist examinations, hospital treatment, surgery, because of the corruption he is and how he is present in many branches of medicine, then he asked himself a question – and what am I paying for this in the first place? Of course, we're in favour of that insurance being that way, necessarily. The question arises what is this voluntary, when on the other hand he has to rediscover for his health again, to go to a private clinic, to private examinations. Now we will come, Mr. Minister, to the situation that through the extra work that you provide for this law individual doctors, not all of them, of course, but those who may never in some segment of their earnings are not enough, because they already have private clinics, outside of their working hours to move to a private clinic. Is that possible? It is possible, for certain interventions, so operations and births, etc. Then the question arises: what will you gain by doing so? With primary health care if any of the doctors or technicians decide to earn extra, as you explained this morning, because there is not enough means to live, through extra work, you forgot to just say that it is up to 30% of the working time, that it can be in up to three contracts, so it works in that home, to define and to work with a private person. Is that someone capable of working 130 percent? Because you've made a good point this morning -- it has to meet the standard in the primary facility where it works, so, and not where there are waiting lists, well, and I agree with that. But let's start by saying that it's some sort of doctor who's a lifesaver, who's responsible. Believe me, in my native Kragujevac, there is such a set of circumstances, whether my generation, a few in front or behind me, I know a huge number of doctors, from the directors of the clinical center, the director of the health care center, various clinics, various specialist professions, and I really talk to them very often. They ask me how it is at my job, I ask them how it is with them. We come to the fact that it's impossible for them to ever fulfill that standard. Since the introduction of this integrated health information system, the popular ISIS, many doctors, and especially those in some advanced years in the infirmary, have not managed, because the doctor has to be an octopus, on the one hand, to look at the patient, and you have prescribed by law that seven minutes is enough for the patient who comes to the infirmary to be examined, to establish a diagnosis, to tell him that someone is coming because of the illness, someone because of a difficult problem that needs to go on with a specialist review. This is really okay now, which you're saying doesn't have to go back to the infirmary on directions for hospital treatment, but for every specialist review, he has to do it. Now you get into a situation where you have doctors who are close to 60 years old, he can't handle that computer equipment, he has to watch, second, older people come in. You know, here you didn't even care about social care for the elderly population, and they're over 20%, because they actually need health care and help the most. The doctor can't throw out an older man after seven minutes, and that norm should, right, be objective from 35 to 40 patients, and sometimes it happens, here, I even have a friend who's a dermatologist, who in one day in her shift examined 48 patients. Is that normal? On the other hand, there is a major problem, and this is a huge area of Serbia's more administrative districts, as far as the town of Kragujevac is concerned. We have appropriate health care and we disagree with this. The fact that Tomica Milosavljevic, along with these mobsters, made such a law with Dinkic, who also went through our hands in 2005, so that the primary health care went to the hands of local self-government, which they hired whoever they wanted, ruined the infirmary. That's one aspect. But there must be decentralisation, I suppose, because the awareness that citizens in that local self-government can always expect in this appropriate health care that is also prevention, for God's sakes, to continue some disease that has adequate care and we disagree with that and in our programme for this local self-government, we demand that decentralisation be carried out. Now in this state, we have, well, the town of Kragujevac, I think that's the situation in Nis too, and in the end everyone can know that very well. There is no second degree of health care, we have a clinic, we have hospitals, because we don't have a general hospital. Doctors at the Kragujevac Clinical Center with all due respect for their work, above all for the organization of the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Centre, we believe that is the case in Nis, because they have a new building. They simply cannot accept that number and take care of so many people, because there is no hospital that would also have internal medicine, and surgery, and all that is needed for one hospital, and we have all the conditions for the town of Kragujevac to get it. In particular, because of the fact that Radomir Nikolic, mayor of the city, is incapacitated there, it is another aspect, which has ruined everything, and that the city has property and should think about what it can do with the government of the Republic of Serbia's property to compensate, we also have a military hospital that can be reconstructed for that purpose, so we would hire 500 to 1000 young experts from the area, not only Kragujevac, but the districts that engraving around the forest, because we have an excellent teaching staff, as in Belgrade, as in Novi Sad, as in Nis. Otherwise, all our medical technicians, doctors, wherever they go abroad, and unfortunately for the past two years, several thousand of them have gone mainly to Germany, and Scandinavian countries, all praise is given for their knowledge and their expertise. Well, it's not an additional way to do it to keep them, to make one such hospital and solve Mr. Minister's volunteer issue. Is it normal for you, here and it's verifiable, in neurology at the Clinical Center, Kragujevac has these doctors who volunteer for eight or nine years? People who are some of them are co-workers at the Faculty of Medicine, I believe that such cases are both in Novi Sad and in Nis and Belgrade, and that they do not have a working relationship at the Clinical Centre, because they are volunteers there, too, have to work as their colleagues who are in a permanent working relationship and come up with these problems. On the other hand, we will remind you that one of the main objectives is set by the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, and when you were elected in 2016, when Vukic was elected prime minister. How are you going to contain that in health care? Since one man who has a hard time is going to stand out, and yet he really doesn't have much time to tell his colleagues after me, we have over 80 amendments to these two draft laws, to make sure that he gets what you're guaranteeing him here, and yet he doesn't have to pay for it, because simply people face the fact that they can't schedule a scanner or any other examinations, first of all, the problem with those of you who have hypertension this morning, who are pre-infarcate, is over 50% of the patients in Serbia who don't have that preventive health care, because nobody recognizes it. Well, as he'll recognize it, I'm going back to that robotic work of a general physician who only has seven minutes. He can't understand this man's habits in seven minutes, how he lives and works. It is not necessary to seek out the EU that has completely destroyed us, which has taken a lot of money from us, and these foreign investors for whom you have given almost a billion dinars of subsidies that can be collected and gone rather than shifted to health care. Look up, like a Cuban model. Look at how patients are treated in China and how high the level of protection is. When it comes to taking care of the baby when it's born, about immunization, about whether or not older people have received vaccines, because there are six other groups that grown-ups that need to be taken care of, and whether these people have the basic means of life so that they can be treated, to stop participation, then we can say that you've done something, when it's visible to a wide range of people, from the youngest to the oldest population.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52764	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52765	I just have to, since it's been mentioned more than once, that seven minutes that doctors have absolutely untrue. Please, look, he's asking again who told you that, I'm standing behind it, it's an absolute untruth that anyone is limited seven minutes to look at someone. So that's the minimum he's got, which is 15 minutes. What I want to say to you and to appeal to the citizens of Serbia, we have, today, one third of those who schedule a review do not appear at all in this review. So there's always more time left. But it's not the point that's left over more time, it's the ones who fail, so they don't come, they've taken the time for someone who needed to come. They not only don't come, they don't tell them they won't come. Well, then you have a situation that whoever was supposed to come didn't show up, and the doctor's waiting for the next patient, and he could take it. So we do regular analysis, and that's why this system exists, and that's why this system applies to a doctor of 50 and some years and a doctor of 30 and something and 40, because if one of us worked in one system, and the other one typed on a machine, we could never collect all the data and have information about those that you talked about, that it stays on paper, that it should be put somewhere in a shelf. We could never add that up and never know what's going on and who's sick of what and what drugs he's got and what happened. So for that reason, the principle applies to all 30-, 40-, 50- and 60-year-old doctors. So it can't work differently. If you say you'll knock on the machine, and you'll be on the computer because you're younger. I think you'll agree that it's impossible to share the system that way. As for the Kragujevci, I have to inform you, I'm sorry you don't know. A general hospital project for Kragujevac has been completed, a plot has been found, an investor has been found, everything has been found. So, the project that exists and is at the stage where it should be and the Kragujevac will get the hospital, the general hospital that will be, which you're talking about the secondary type. As far as you're concerned, we're just in this Act, letting pensioners, socially endangered and others, who don't have a certified health book, go on screening, so they can be vaccinated, and when it's for palitative treatment, they can go there without a book. Do you understand how much that's different from what's been so far? Just for that reason, because we insist on scrinnings, on preventive examinations. We have three screenings, three more, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and psychomotors. Do you hear what I'm saying, so these three new ones are being introduced? So that's the essence of the story. In this, I don't remember, that once there was a bigger difference being recognized by people who were threatened, not talking about children, not talking about their parents, pensioners, refugees, victims of violence and all these things, where the state doesn't make any difference whether they're socially insured or not. What's the point of the story? If there's a preventive review available to all people to find out in time, when we do it we'll be healthier, the system will be much better, then we'll cut costs and we'll be left with more money for these other things that we'll be able to invest in then, because I think everyone here is aware that there's no state in the world that can single out so much money to meet all needs and to put everything free and to have everything. Guys, that doesn't exist. Don't lie to me. So we can just make progress, make things better in the budget and go. One more thing to tell you. Well, this isn't what Santa brought in, this is all costing, this is just thanks to the politics and work of Alexander Vukic, possibly done now. Don't let anyone think this fell out of the sky. This is just the result of the politics and work of Alexander Vukic and nothing else. It's not a paid commercial, it's a cruel truth. This is a cruel truth. Where it came out of bankruptcy, if we'd stayed in that bankruptcy situation, so people wouldn't have had basic drugs, hospitals would be empty, we'd go to the hospital like it was, so you could go send a relative to buy you a patch, buy you a medicine, give you everything, so you can be operated so you can be treated. Have we forgotten all about what it was like? If it wasn't for the Band-Aids, there weren't any other things. Do you understand? So that's the essence of things. This is why we can today, and if we continue to do so, then we create preconditions to make it even better and to make it even more possible for our citizens to be easier in the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52766	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52767	Mr. Minister, you probably have such haired data, and I'm telling you that it's in practice when it comes to the work of these doctors in primary health care and the inability of people to schedule specialist examinations because it's crowded. You're talking about some exceptions now. There are people who have applied neatly paid to be issued a travel document, or passport, so they do not come to raise that passport. So there are people like that who make an appointment, and they don't come. I'm talking about hospitals that are overcrowded and that can't accept that number of patients because of this system of work. Now, now that you've started that story, then tell me what's wrong with the home of health on Sima Street in Old Town, here in Belgrade, 15 doctors have been fired, malts do nothing, patients move to other areas of the city, to Vračar, and I don't know where, in a health home that's been around for so many years. They're confused with patients, how now that only these legal provisions have to make a new network, they've just got to go through the new health homes under republican rule, what's that all about, people are wondering. On the other hand, you now answer to me and in general the SRS, as if we had some responsibility for what was going on, and I made a good point to you when the Dossage Authority was 12 years of systematic skulls, robbing and destroying the health system. But I must remind you that you were also a responsible person and at that level at the Clinical Centre of Serbia. You also worked at the Emergency Center, you could have rebelled against that system back then. Don't make me any free commercials here now, based on my contribution presentation, I don't know who, that's your thing, your obligation. You took power in Serbia to provide a good health system, you took an oath here, and you are obliged to work, to improve.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52768	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52769	No one said, here's the end, that it's bad now that people can go to all these checks, without a certified health book, but the question is, what are we going to do with people, and they're really over half a million people who don't have certified health books. That's almost what the Minister of Agriculture was talking about here, there's a lot of agricultural producers, it's not a permanent state of affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52770	Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52771	Here I go. When to pay the reprogramme for [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52772	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. You can't come from a replica, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52773	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers and guests, respected MPs, when it comes to the health care system, must point out that significant shifts have been made in this area in several previous years, as improvements to the health situation. First of all, I think of the government's success to give the employees of this branch 10% increase in earnings, as well as the opening of new health centres and the renovation of existing ones. Thanks to this, according to the European Health System reports, our health has come from the bottom of the list, into its upper half, overcoming many more developed countries that are already members of the EU, and this result is more significant because we are a society with a lower economic base to support the health system as a social function of the state and at the same time with a high average age of the population, which then puts more pressure on health institutions by nature, because there are more needs to provide health care services. What is essential in this bill is a solution to extend the circle of the person who will be covered by the social care for health, or persons who do not have a health book. In addition to the categories so far, it is predicted that young unemployed persons, who are not in school, and up to 26 years of their lives, persons with the status of a fighter, refugees, or exiled from the former Republic of the SFRY, as well as displaced persons who are unemployed and with low monthly incomes, who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, victims of terrorism, persons who are provided, except mandatory and recommended immunisation, persons who provide targeted preventive checks, i.e. screening according to the relevant national programmes. I also find it very important that it is suggested that children's parents suffer from the most severe diseases, have the right to be sick until their children are 18 years old. What's most important, in all that time, will receive 100% profit. This shows a high degree of humanity, society and health care toward as many citizens as possible. If we start from such postulates of the health system, then it is natural for citizens to be asked a certain minimum requirement, exclusively for its better functioning, but also for the interests of the citizens themselves and for the protection of their health. The two draft laws state that an individual is required to respond to a call for a targeted preventive review, i.e. screening, according to the relevant national problems. This is a good solution, because we are all witnesses to the extent of the expansion of cancer and other dangerous diseases, whose treatment is long-term and uncertain outcomes, and it requires significant financial resources, while their earlier discovery, the fatal outcomes, would be significantly warned, especially in older people, and that this should certainly be done, in order for citizens to respond to these checks on a timely and regular basis. Insurance users who are invited three times to check-ups and do not respond or receive an excuse for missing in case they get sick will have to pay themselves up to 35% of the full price of treatment. The aim of this proposal is not to punish citizens, but to raise awareness of preventive checks. An important change is also the creation of an opportunity to extend the right of the selected physician, to approve absences from work based on long-term illness, or to a maximum of 60 days. This will enable more complicated procedures to be avoided in the opening of the disease for some serious diseases or more complicated operations requiring longer post-operative care or recovery, which are more unfortunately not as rare cases as before. In addition to these two health care laws on the agenda of today's session, there are solutions that need to establish a higher level of protection in the areas of transport of various dangerous things, drugs and intoxicating drugs or objects for mass use among citizens. The PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day will give its support for their adoption, as well as for the adoption of health care laws, because we believe that the health system and every type of safety and health protection of our population is of the utmost importance in building a happy and satisfied individual, and thus a better society for all. Of course, we will also support the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, because we believe that the position of a larger number of farmers is such that the financing of technical checks and the registration of tractors is a significant cost for them each year. This also fits in with the general policy of our party and President Milan Krkobbiæ in efforts to ensure that the more favourable conditions of life and work in the villages are ensured. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52774	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52775	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of these five proposed laws we are discussing today are certainly the most important two system laws, which are the proposals for health insurance laws and the Health Protection Act. Although you praise these laws, we have shown our serious objections through a number of amendments. Both of these legislative proposals contain several positive legal solutions. It is good that you remembered to expand healthcare for emergency treatment and for people who do not have a certified health book, but it is not good for health insurance users who are invited to screening checks, and do not respond or not respond to an excuse for missing that if they are sick, they pay 35% of the full cost of treatment. We all know that these are mostly expensive treatments and that many will not be able to pay the expected costs, so, therefore, your idea of raising awareness of mandatory screening falls into the water. The proposal for a health insurance law provides that parents are entitled to sick leave, receiving full income during the treatment of a child from cancer or some other serious illness until the age of 18, and will have to renew the disease every six months. So far, it has been 65% of the income and this change is good, but we ask why you are not ready to provide the children of Republika Srpska with adequate healthcare on the cost of health insurance, with compensation from the insurance of Republika Srpska? For children with cancer, parents must provide 10,000 euros to pay for a health care facility where the child is being treated. Why are you equating the Republika Srpska families with the families of Albanians with KIM? Also, one of the papers in the bill is that the chosen doctor will be able to open up to 60 days, and so far it has been possible for up to 30 days. However, nothing changes when it comes to payment, as 30 days goes to the employer's burden, and from 31 days to the Fund's burden. Of course, I support that doctors must be freed from too many administrations to be able to fully commit themselves to patients. As you can see, we're making remarks about all the changes you're boasting about, and the health problems, or in the health insurance system, are huge and we don't think this law is going to be able to solve all these problems. Also, I would point out the waiting lists that represent the biggest problem, because according to the available data, 72,000 people are still waiting to come to order and it is not known whether it will be within a few months to several years for individual interventions. In previous discussions, when it was health law, and we said that up to two years it was waiting for interventions at Banjica for a knee replacement. Also, one of the remarks concerns insurance rights. This law is contrary to Article 68. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with Articles 6, 8 and 15. The Law on Patients' Rights, which regulates issues, rights and availability of healthcare, the right to preventive measures and the right to consent. It is necessary for all ill insurance undertakings to have equal access to healthcare, especially when it comes to the most severe diseases, of particular socio-medical significance, regardless of whether a preventive review has been carried out or not and without discrimination in relation to financial opportunities. Therefore, the provision of a law that punishes a patient for failing to attend checks is controversial, and especially when it comes to the fact that prevention care is the least effective because of the poorer social, material status, because there are still lists of medications for participation that we ask you to abolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52776	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52777	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Bačevac very systematically explained the Health Protection Act from this set of laws, which are on the agenda of this session, I will do something about the Law on General Use cases. This Law, above all, achieves a higher degree of compliance of consumer standards in the Republic of Serbia with EU standards and better functioning of the EU's basic principle, which is precisely – free movement of goods. Also, this law improves the quality of consumer goods, and above all, the subject matter of general use. Also, the new law gives us a prescribed standard of security for all groups of general uses. It should be borne in mind that this law will more clearly establish the obligations and responsibilities of entities in the business of general use in terms of more specific and more precise obligations, starting with the preparation of documents and evidence, through the health and safety of products, and only for one purpose, which is the safety and protection of consumer health. What needs to be pointed out is the difference between the previous law and the new law, and the difference is that so far there has been no single database on cases of poisoning, injury, health damage and more serious adverse effects resulting from the use of the case of general use. Namely, these data were found in health institutions and centres, and the new law will collect all data in the central database. This law, as regards compliance with EU rules, is in line with the principles, with all the essential requirements laid down in relevant European regulations, and above all with the following regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council: the Regulation on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food from 2004, the Regulation on good manufacturing practice of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food from 2006, the 2009 Toy Safety Regulation and the 2009 Cosmetic Products Regulation. As the formal objective of this law is to achieve a greater degree of compliance with EU legal assets and to take over EU standards, it is possible to function properly in the market economy and to make its products, which meet EU standards, available on the European market and for EU producers on equal terms and on their market, make their products available on the market of the Republic of Serbia. This kind of competition would be a good incentive, above all, for the emergence of new operators. In voting day, the SDPS will support all the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52778	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52779	Since the president of the SRS and members of the parliamentary group have detailedly analysed these roof laws in the field of health, health care and health insurance, it would be perfectly appropriate to look back on this quickly imposed traffic safety law. Quick because just before the day of this session, the proposal came to include these amendments and the addition of the Traffic Safety Act as an emergency procedure. There is one rule that should always be respected, which should be followed – the worst legal solutions are extorted solutions. When you pass one law, then it should contain everything that is experienced, everything that is theoretically and everything that, after all, a long series or a long period is seen as a potential problem and thus through a legal solution is eliminated. We are here to witness that changes and additions are being made, which in any case goes in favour of those who use agricultural machines, especially tractors and connections, but in some ways it is precedentd. Presided for reasons not only are those categories of people to be helped. When it comes to traffic safety, when it comes to the registration of motor vehicles or vehicles using the engine, then one company needs to look at what is useful, which in any case goes in the direction of reducing oil consumption, i.e. oil derivatives. That's the economic benefit. When it comes to traffic safety, efforts should be made to encourage legal solutions to all those options that exclude transport by cars, to make it as crowded as possible, to reduce traffic risk, etc. This is all when you see, you have a clear picture that under the pressure of peasants, people who use agricultural machines, the ruling coalition has reached out to this solution, and on the other hand you have another problem. You have a problem with those who are users of transportation by means of a bicycle or motorcycle or similar means of transport that are legally required to register each year by having to obtain confirmation of the technical characteristics of the engine, bike or moped. In order to obtain such a certificate, it is necessary to go to the producer’s office. Since we do not have manufacturers of such means of transport, representatives are unfortunately still the largest in Slovenia. They are the "Tomos" who have lagged behind and are still driving around Serbia, but it is a means of transport when it comes to bicycles with motorcycles or bicycles, as it would say. The certificate is paid up to 50 euros, and you draw that certificate every year. Technical examination is being carried out and this technical review is being paid as in all cases and it is something that is directly poured into the budget, but this confirmation when you extract, it goes directly in favour of the manufacturer of these means of transport. You have a case, an example works, a producer from Japan who doesn't have a representative... For example, "Jamaha" has no representation in Serbia, there is in Slovenia. In order for one engine to register up to 50 cubic centimeters the production of this company must go to Slovenia or if there is a friend there to pay Slovenians to get technical characteristics for this means of transport. What are we supposed to wait for? We should wait before the elections themselves to assess that it is a problem, so eventually users of these means of transport could, when making changes and additions, such as this, vote for the ruling coalition and then resort to such solutions. I mean, it had to reach out to some more studio solution that would involve these changes everything. This is how it turns out that the minister, based on this change, is due to his intricacies, ignorance or his associates, better said, should now offer his resignation. How could he predict this for tractors and plug-in machines? How could a minister, especially a doctor, do a doctor, lose his sight of it? But that's how you do it. That's when you want cheap political points, with us Serbian radicals pointing out that this is and what a significant financial benefit it is for those who deal with agriculture, who use these machines. When it comes to means of general use, it should be a little more educational and it should be done more carefully. You know, we generally accept the policy of EU standards. We in certain segments when it comes to means of general use, here you say, for example, specifically children's toys and the largest number of children's toys lately and in recent years is imported from China. China is not a country that works by EU standards, it works by its standards. These toys used by children are not harmful. They meet all the conditions, but they are not according to European standards. You cannot talk about freedom of the market, and it is said in advance – only those that are produced by ISO standards, according to EU standards. It's discrimination. This has nothing to do with economics, loyal competition or anything that could mean an adequate integration into the market economy. You have cosmetics that are imported from the same one in an increasing number. They're not European standards. He needs control. Of course it needs control, but it doesn't have to be so hard on those European standards at all costs. You have to be careful here. It must be said that it meets our standards, and in the end Serbia is open to one another as a market, and not to have that privilege and how significantly EU producers. When it comes to these laws, roof laws, there is one problem of administrative nature. Minister, obviously this government doesn't want to get involved either, and that's a life problem. Here's what it's made of. You have a case where a man living in the municipality of Pančevo or Vrsac wants to conduct a specialist examination in Belgrade's territory or to use the services of health institutions from Belgrade. In order to do so, it must be approved by the Regional Institute of Health Insurance, i.e. confirmation from the health institutions in the area of the AP Vojvodina that they are unable to carry out such a review or to provide such a medical service. Only then can a patient or citizen from Panchev come and perform that medical service or something else, when it comes to his health, in Belgrade. It's out of your mind. These are the administrative limits. Just a man not to believe it. Imagine now, a man who lives in Panchev, only by a set of random circumstances, administrative divisions, he must go to the examinations of a particular species, if he wants to achieve this goal or idea, must go to Novi Sad for a review, to institutions in Novi Sad, to be examined by some institutions, to get confirmation that they are not qualified to come to Belgrade. There is nothing different, Mr. Minister, nor is there insurance companies from the city of Belgrade who live or who have come across circumstances in the AP Vojvodina area. Those administrative barriers remain and must be lifted. It is beyond any logic, beyond common sense, without saying what the adverse consequences are, how much additional costs and what complications are caused by these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52780	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52781	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to respond to the presentation of the previous MP, because it is really inappropriate and this expression on my face, because I cannot believe that you have brought out this many incorrect data, that you have misused a public microphone to harass the public and that you are presenting such data in the category – 50 euros must be travelling to Slovenia, must be in different countries, we have no representation of this or that company, that I am not advertising these companies now. You've brought out so many wrong things, I'm really in shock that I have to explain things like that. Because when you said them, you probably knew it wasn't true. That's very unserious of you. That story just leaves a bike with a motorcycle, as it says in this law, I won't look back at it at all. The qualifications you have presented to Minister Stefanovic, there is clearly some political hatred on your part, some impatience. You're sorry for all the results that have been achieved, first of all in front of that ministry. Just laugh, there's no problem. But this follows a lot of people. People are also monitoring the work of Minister Stefanovic and the results of the interior ministry. This is not responsible work in parliament, the way you communicate. Indeed it remains, so we have left a permanent registration for working machines, motorcultivators and tractors that are designed to perform agricultural work and, of course, the connected vehicles that pull that tractor, and left the bike with the engine. However, the bike with the bike is later, second law, classified in a completely different category and simply when they come to registration bikes with a motorcycle, they will move to the category – moped or motorcycle. This will be done in the registration process itself. All these prices that you've scared the citizens of, and indeed, I'm someone who owns a bike with a motorcycle that needs to move into these other two categories, I'd feel very uncomfortable and I'd have some feeling of impatience, dissatisfaction with the people who propose these laws. I don't want to beg you, I just want to appeal not to deceive the public in this way, because it really doesn't like the MPs. It's not exactly what you said, and it's a shame that we're considering the laws this way, but there's probably more room to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52782	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52783	Unlike you, I don't see at all what your appearance is and how you behave as I speak, but thank you anyway for these comments about how I behave when you're exposed. I'm laughing because you're saying something that has nothing to do with life. I'm the user of one of those bike engines, or mopeds. The first buyer, the owner, is the manufacturer of Yamaha. I'm the one who came to the office, once the "Jamaha" representativeship is in the suburban settlement of Novi Sad and it's called Veternik, I have to explain everything in detail, I came and said – sorry, but we no longer represent, we are no longer authorised representatives, the representation is in Ljubljana. I personally contacted them, they said – you should pay at 50 euros so that we can send you this certificate of technical characteristics of what you are using. The motorcycle I'm using didn't change the owner, I'm telling you again. I'm the first owner. That's the point. It's not a problem that it's a representation with us so that it's paid to the state, so to be a tax, it's no problem, the state has to fill the budget. It is the problem that hastened solutions literally refer positively to those who are not beneficiaries of Serbia's budget and those who are not receiving Serbia. That's the point, my dear colleague. I'm laughing, because your explanation is just like what's always repeated, and it's in a cage, whenever we laugh at Nebojsa Stefanovic, you say – it's political hatred. We are the ones who are and how happy we are when someone succeeds in life, especially when it was a Serbian radical. What would we laugh about? It's funny how you explain it, when you're not in the topic, you're not in the matter...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52784	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52785	Let's put this all in the misunderstanding category. You've been asking questions in the New Sad. I can only say that you were in the wrong place at the wrong time. And that's what's happening. Here, I will personally take you to the Yamaha representative office in Belgrade, to help solve the problem. So you don't need legal help, help friends. Don't just distract the people. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52786	Mr. Mircic, you have no basis for replication. Helping a friend doesn't refuse, no. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52787	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members, these roof laws in the field of health have many positive effects and I will try to bring them up as much as possible. The health care law as a roof law in the field of healthcare was adopted in 2005 and has since not changed significantly since. This law regulates the health care system in the Republic of Serbia, its organisation and implementation, as well as social care for the health of the population. The main reason for the adoption of the new law is also the need and necessity for this area to be regulated in more detail and for the area of healthcare to be reformed in accordance with the newspapers in the health care system that have emerged since the adoption of the previous law. The very concept of health care regulated by Article 2 that I do not read it, this law found that the right to health care except for citizens of the Republic of Serbia also have foreign citizens, people without citizenship, who are constantly populated or occasionally staying in the Republic of Serbia or who are passing through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The reason for extending the scope of the persons who are entitled to health care, except for the need to provide it comprehensively to all persons on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is public health importance for the population of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to prevent the possibility of the emergence and spread of epidemics and their health consequences. The newspaper of this law is also the introduction of the concept of health care, which is an integral part of health care, especially for patients in hospital treatment, paliative care, as well as in home treatment conditions. It is also prescribed that the Republic of Serbia can provide healthcare institutions whose founder and means of enforcement of obligations under the executed judicial decisions on obligations financed by compulsory health insurance funds or otherwise. It is also prescribed to provide funds for the achievement of general interest, to carry out targeted preventive checks, i.e. screening according to relevant national programmes, to manage medical waste in public property, to provide and specialize in the specialisation of healthcare professionals and health associates in public property health care institutions, to ensure the property and collective insurance of health care professionals in public property by means of an accident, insurance in case of serious illnesses and surgical interventions, and to ensure liability to third parties in public property, the ongoing maintenance of facilities, premises, medical and non-medical equipment services and others, and all of this from the means of compulsory health insurance in accordance with the law governing health insurance. This law also regulates the monitoring of financial flows, the establishment of a national health account, as well as the conduct of supervision of the same. The law also introduces three new categories of population covered by the social care for health, which we have already mentioned. This legal solution separates health care at the level of autonomous province and local self-government, so that social health care at these levels can cover measures to provide and implement health care, which are more than normative in terms of space, equipment, personnel, medicines, medical and non-medical resources, and all with an interest in the citizens of these territories. And I would point out just for a little while, maybe it wouldn't be bad if the local self-governments that want above the norms to employ personnel and finance their profits, maybe it wouldn't be bad to sign contracts with the Republic Health Insurance Fund just to get an ID number. That's it, little dyspression. What I would be well-intentioned to, and I owe it to my profession, is to draw attention to Article 75, which provides for the basic work of the health homes. This member no longer needs to be provided with specific health care for workers, or for medical work. Medical specialists in the health care service will have to identify themselves as selected doctors. As a result, the home of health will inevitably lose the right to perform the work of medicine. Thus, the medical services of public property work will disappear at the primary level of health care. State care for the health of a working-active population should not only be left to privates, because it is a large part of the population that is important for the country's development, for the social product and for their health should be cared for by the state. Not only that, a large number of employers are engaged in periodic examinations of the medical work department selected in the tender, and a second service may happen every year to be the provider of services, thus losing continuity in monitoring health, its disturbance and without being able to monitor the cause of the disorder of the health of workers, whether it is conditioned by professional pests, diseases related to work or beyond. In addition to this, I must point out that the service of the medical work has obligations and tasks both in the system of safety and health at work. Namely, in Article 41. The Law on Safety and Health at Work says that to carry out health protection jobs, the employer employs the medical services of work and further states what it is obliged to do. If we do not consider these things, we will get the situation that the health care system of workers will have to be rebuilt, as already seen in Croatia. This law, which I would very much like to commend, because the solution that has been given since 2005 in the separation of health homes from general hospitals, I would especially like to commend the establishment of health centres, because this is how rationalisation is introduced, the organisation of health institutions for better use and availability of personnel, space and equipment. This solution enables the merger of non-medical activities, including specialist-consultative activities. This return will be more effective, faster and easier than their separation, which, in my humble opinion, should never have happened, resulting from another whim of democratic power in the past. By separating homes of health and general hospitals we had two legal entities who paid each other all the services of any medical, consulting, laboratory, and non-medical services and many other shortcomings that this law would solve. A set of activities that can only be carried out in public-owned health institutions has included judicial-medical activity. Newspapers related to mandatory autopsy cases have also been introduced. The law also stipulates who can and under what conditions establish private practice. The data is the definition of new health technologies, as well as the minister's decision to issue a permit to use it. A legal possibility has been introduced that the home of health can provide sanitary transport, as well as the transport of patients to dialysis on its own or through another health institution in accordance with the law and plan of the network. An exchange of professional titles has been performed, and this is the doctor of dental medicine, as he has been a doctor of dentistry so far. Changes are also commendable in the sense that it is prescribed by this law that a health development plan be adopted in accordance with the plan for enrolment in the schools and schools of health professions. Thus, the Ministry of Health is involved in the adoption of a registration policy with the opinion of the Ministry of Education. A new legal solution also to specialise in the deficits of medicine, dental medicine and pharmacies, the Ministry also approves of a healthcare worker who has conducted a traineeship and has passed a professional exam and who is unemployed and employed at a certain time, in accordance with the law. The name of traditional medicine has been replaced by the name complementary medicine, for the reason that the term is more adequate, given that complementary medicine represents the completion of the method and procedures of conventional medicine, and the minister issues a permit to perform certain methods and procedures of complementary medicine based on the opinion of the Republic of the Expert Commission for Complementary Medicine. The law detailed the apothecary activity in the Republic of Serbia, which is carried out in primary, secondary and tertiary and private practice. This law complies with the provisions of the new health insurance laws. The aim of these health laws is the need to cover as many citizens as possible of the mandatory health insurance system, thus achieving greater social security, greater quality, greater efficiency of health protection for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52788	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52789	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing very important health laws, which will improve how our health system, and will also affect our insurance companies, as well as medical workers. The most important changes are foreseen in health care and health insurance laws, so during the discussion, I would focus on these laws and focus on them. What is very important is that the Health Insurance Act will lead to certain changes, which is to improve the position of parents of sick children. In fact, the parents of children suffering from malignant, chronic and metabolic diseases will not have a current 65% salary on sick leave, but will have 100% of the salary. What this government is doing is it's thinking about all the categories of the population, from the little ones to the pensioners, which we're showing through all these laws that we've passed over the past few years. On this occasion, I would like to remind our citizens, first of all, of what Gilas' government did in 2008-2012. Not only did they not care about the citizens of Serbia, they didn't care about our future, our children. Only 500 children were then sent to treatment outside Serbia, while over 2,000 children were sent through the budget fund and the RFZO only in the period from 2014, when the fund was established, which means over two and a half times more funds have been invested by the end of 2018. It does not mean that there were no children in that period, but that they only thought of their own, of their ministers, even the health minister at the time sent for a routine operation abroad, and for sick children and Serbian citizens there was no hearing at all. That's why they went the way they did. They're free of all that they're doing and they're forced to win power, the citizens of Serbia don't forget. Then, with these changes through the Health Insurance Act, the length of the illness is arranged, which is very important, because for the past 30 days as long as the doctor has been able to provide insurance, it now extends to 60 which will reduce both waiting and going to the medical committees. It is also very important that screenings and immunisation are now allowed for patients who do not have a certified health book, which means that they are really thinking about these patients too, because we know how important immunization is. This we had the opportunity to see in a recent period when there was a maltene, an epidemic of morbils that had once been eradicated, but, unfortunately, because of some again, which spread some misinformation, lies, there was also the occurrence of this disease. How important it is that preventive screening tests are being done, my colleagues also said. I'd just like to remind our citizens at this time that it's very important that we take care of our health, control our health regularly and go to screening tests, because if any of these diseases that are being screened out in time... For colon cancer, the rate of healing is as much as 70%, if discovered in time, and even over 90% can go for breast cancer and carcinoma of the uterus. Therefore, the appeal to our fellow citizens and our citizens in general to go regularly to preventive checks, especially now that the state is also considering those categories of people who do not have certified health books. I would also add that regular reviews of the thoughts and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as certainly less funds are invested in prevention than for the treatment of cytostatics or various other methods applied to the treatment of malignancies. So this is for every commendation and SNS MPs will support these laws. What I would add is that it is also very important that this law regulates and paralytic care and falls in general on the burden of the fund. Then, and hospitalization without instruction. When a patient visited the chosen doctor and received a doctor’s instructions, it was a little odd that he had to return to his chosen doctor to receive a medical treatment instruction. The road is now shortened and the hospitalization procedure has been simplified. The minister talked a lot about the doctor's extra work. I really agree with that. In this way, the waiting lists will be reduced and any problems related to the review will be reduced, and I think this is really good. As for the private public partnership, it is very important, the methods and procedures as well as criteria for the establishment of private character institutions have been simplified, so this is also the good side of this law. When it comes to the Health Protection Act, as a doctor belonging to the Kruševac General Hospital, I think the big problem was when the general hospital was separated from home health just because of the staff, as the minister said. In particular, in our health center the services of the sanity service worked much better when it was the form of a health center. So it's going to work out now, and because of the medical staff, it's much better, because the doctors of certain specialities will be able to engage, both in the hospital and in the health care home. On this occasion, I would also like to add that I would like to thank the Ministry of Health for the means identified a month ago, two for the purchase of a microscope for the eye department, which will allow patients who are going into cataract surgery to be able to operate successfully. That's not all. In the previous year, you really invested in Krushevac General Hospital and you helped the health care home, we also got a sanitary vehicle in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, and about the successes and everything that was invested in Kruševac hospital I talked about the previous times, so I wouldn't repeat myself now. Certainly when the government is responsible, both at the republican level and in local self-government, successes do not lag behind. On this occasion, I repeat once again that we will support these laws and that in the day of voting we will be in favour of their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52790	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52791	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS list. As a MP, I will support a set of all these laws and I will talk more about this health care law, where I will refer to Article 17. In particular, the 17th member defines how it will work and how health care will be done in the Republic of Serbia. He's got 30 views. Position 23 says that health care is present in every part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that it is placed in areas that are underdeveloped, in areas that are demographically threatened. That's the kind of area I come from. In particular, primary health care for all of us, for those people who live in small communities, such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han, such as Babusnica, Meroshina and a large number of such municipalities, have the need to, through this law, place an accent on such municipalities, health homes can continue to work, that health homes can provide a presence in every part of their territory, because we are witnessing that the great problem of our people living in the country, living from agriculture... They need more attention. Through this law, we gave opportunity. I would invite you, distinguished ministers, to give more support to such health homes, along with your colleagues, and I call on you to find the opportunity to ensure that every home of health has, that our villages are visited, that rural areas have their own people, their doctors, their sisters who will be with them. There's a larger number of old municipalities. A large number of villages are very old and at any moment we have to get to these people, help them and be with them at all times. This law provides a large number of opportunities for local self-government, and it's a good thing that finally the Ministry of Health has the possibility... You, through the Ministry, funded most of the funds and salaries through the budget of the Republic of Serbia and everything that goes to health homes. Now you have an even greater obligation to follow with local self-government and work on that every infirmary in these villages can live on and that people are being treated there and have the same conditions, as in larger centres, as in larger cities. That is what this Article 17, paragraph 23, gives as a commitment. (President: Bring the end, colleague Miletic.) ) I would also like to call on Parliamentary Maria Obradovic and thank her for submitting this Transport Safety Act, because this law gives our agricultural producers, who have their own machines, tractors, who are old, to make it positive for them, that it is good for them, that they do not have a higher cost than they have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52792	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52793	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, and the Proposal for a Health Insurance Law and the Proposal for a Health Protection Act, I view as part of the reform of our health system. Since the previous Health Insurance Act was passed in 2005, it is clear that it is necessary to bring the legal framework into line with the changes and achievements that occurred in the previous 14 years. The aim of the proposed changes is to achieve greater social security of citizens and to improve the quality of health services for as many citizens as possible who will be covered by the mandatory health insurance system. I have to point out the human aspect of this law, and he looks first and foremost at the extent of the insurance rights. My colleagues have already talked about some possibilities, I won't repeat that, I'm going to point out some other examples, and that is that if we adopt this law in the future, all adult insurance companies will be entitled to preventive checks relating to family planning. Also, insured persons are expected to have the right to compensation if necessary to carry out a medical examination 50km away from their place of residence. This is especially important for the part of Serbia that I come from, it's the city of Kraljevo. The city of Kraljevo extends to a large area, so some of my fellow citizens have to travel up to 100 kilometers to come and conduct an examination with a specialist doctor, so that these proposed changes will especially mean, above all, in a material sense. This bill may also contain an unpopular measure, but certainly justified and this measure applies to those citizens who are not unduly responding to screening checks, but it is very important to define and set up mechanisms that will produce results in the field of preventive examinations. I expect the bill on health care will improve this area. Practice has clearly shown that the current form of organisation, where health homes are in the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities, and general hospitals in the ministry's jurisdiction, have failed to meet expectations. I hope that returning health homes to the ministry's jurisdiction will be an important step towards better planning activities in future health centres and that, of course, this process will be faster than was the process of separation of homes of health and general hospitals. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will also support the proposed changes and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act. These changes will allow farmers, above all, to be subject to permanent registration for their vehicles in the future, with the condition, of course, that they will have to carry out a technical examination once a year to demonstrate the correctness of the vehicle, thus ensuring the safety of road traffic. So this is how we showed our willingness to bring the legal framework into line with the situation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52794	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52795	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, a set of laws we are discussing today introduces fundamental changes in the organisation of health services. The changes relate, both to those who provide health services and to those who use health services, as well as to those who regulate public and private health. I'll comment first on some of the health care laws. First of all, I would say that the social concern for the health of the population is clearly defined at the level of the Republic of Serbia, or the Autonomous Region, at the level of the unit of local self-government, at the level of the individual and taxing are listed obligations of all levels. In particular, I would like to point out that the obligation to use means of general interest is to carry out targeted preventive checks, i.e. screening checks, and according to appropriate national programmes. The importance of these examinations is very high, because according to the World Health Organisation for the Combating Cancer, the world’s disease disease, and we also have 18.1 million people in the world on the rise, and 9.6 million die from them. According to data and estimates of the International Cancer Research Organisation for 2018, women in Serbia are at high risk of dying from breast cancer. Prevention checks will help reduce the rate of malignancy, and early detection and treatment will reduce mortality from these diseases, which will certainly contribute to improving the health of the nation, and these reviews will significantly reduce treatment costs. In order to successfully implement these measures, the regulation, that is, in law, is also required, that it is a citizen that is obliged to respond to this targeted preventive review. On the other hand, the Health Protection Act is envisaged, although it is said that it may be an unpopular measure but useful in order to stimulate citizens to respond to these preventive checks, that in case a citizen who does not respond to a preventive review provided for by the National Scanning Review Programme, he is obliged to bear 35% of the costs of his treatment if he suffers from the diseases for which he is being screened. The new law covers the concept of care which is an essential part of health care, especially for patients in hospital treatment and home treatment, which has not been the case so far. I would also like to point out once again the importance of rationalising by reintroduction of health care systems for general hospitals and health homes, thus achieving a better organisation of work, better use of personnel and equipment. The republic that now becomes the founder of these health institutions will simultaneously assume the obligations of reconciliation of judicial decisions for these institutions because it is known that during the period when they were in charge of local municipalities due to the different economic power of these municipalities today there are 28 health institutions in the blockade. The bill on health insurance almost completely changes our country's health insurance system. The scope of the rights from the funding of the Republic Health Fund is increasing. I would like to highlight a very important newspaper that children's parents will be suffering from malignant, rare diseases, metabolic and other chronic diseases that require long-term treatment now are able to be with their children up to the time of healing, or up to 18 years of life with 100% compensation, which so far was 65%. Also, I think it is very important that those who have not had their certified health books, and so far have only had the right to serve emergency medical assistance on the cost of the Health Insurance Fund, now have extended this right and to paulative care, mandatory immunisation and vaccination, as well as screening checks. The rights of citizens who use the burden of health insurance will be extended to women who are operated on breast cancer and they will also have the opportunity to make adjustments or breast reconstruction on the cost of insurance. The paper is certainly also the introduction of a public-private partnership, which has already been talked about, which will significantly contribute to the quality of providing health services in the country. Due to the importance of the proposed laws and the quality of the proposed legislative solutions, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52796	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todvoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52797	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposed laws are extremely high-quality, comprehensive and thorough and each segment that makes up Serbia's health system is given maximum attention to each segment. Law proposals have great public interest, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all of us who work in Serbia's health system. The fact is that we are all at a certain point or period of life users of health services i.e. patients. We must admit that in the last five years, a lot of good and quality has been done by the state of Serbia, above all I think of the president of the state, Mr Alexander Vukic and the Ministry of Health, whose head you are in, in order for Serbia's health system to be more quality, more efficient, so that health services are equally available to citizens in the territory of all Serbia. I want to say that the results of the work of the Ministry of Health, on which you are headed, are truly respectable and the list of good and quality solutions is very long, starting with the construction of a new clinical centre in Nis, the reconstruction of home health in Nis, the largest home of health in Serbia, the construction and reconstruction of clinical centres and other health institutions across Serbia, new equipment, new technologies, new medicines, ISIS, staff, specialization, salary increases, etc. So all of these results are truly for respect and represent the basis for the health system, and what we all want and who we all strive for. When we talk about the Health Insurance Act, for the sake of the public, I want to say that it is the result of the co-operation of the Ministry of Health with other state bodies. Here I think of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, then the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, the RFZO, then the Central Register for Mandatory Social Insurance, the Public Administration Reform Team for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, associations such as NURDOR, the Association of Women with Breast Cancer, the Association of Serbian Insurance Insurance, the Republic Professional Commissions, and representatives of all other interested associations and NGOs. The public debate took place between 25 December 2016 and 20 January 2017. Four presentations took place in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac and all interested, and the professional and general public, had the opportunity to get acquainted with the bill's proposal, to discuss, to make their proposals, remarks and suggestions, and at the time of the public debate, the bill was also highlighted on the health ministry's website, so that all interested people could, through email, direct their observations, suggestions and suggestions. So, the law represents a broad consensus of all the organs mentioned, but also of the physical ones. A lot has been said about the papers in the bill, I'll just mention some of them. It is, for example, that the newspaper is represented and when the insurance company is referred to treatment at a stationary facility, which is at least 50 kilometers from the place of residence, it has the right to charge the costs of transport, whether it is located on the territory of the home institution or not. Then, according to the new bill, insurance companies get the right to, say, medical aids and higher standard drugs to get the price difference in relation to the aid or medicine that is issued on the burden of insurance. The same is true for rehabilitation, when the insurance company is headed to a rehabilitation centre, it expressed its desire to be placed in the apartment, which, of course, can, at the expense of the difference in the price recognised by the insurance company. In Banj, too, according to a new bill, you can go not only on the basis of the instructions of the chosen doctor, but also on the instructions of a specialist of the appropriate medical branch that treats the patient. We've also heard about the Paliatical Care. The news is that insurance companies will be able to exercise wider health insurance rights in cases where the failure of employers does not have a regular payment of health insurance contributions. So far, in such cases, the insurance company could only exercise the right to emergency medical assistance, however, it will now be able to exercise both the right and the palitative care and the enforcement of mandatory screening, as well as mandatory immunisation. The paper is also that in certain cases persons who are provided with compulsory health insurance rights, such as injury or professional illness, who perform seasonal work, in accordance with the law that determines this matter and this way of work. Also, there was a alignment with the Sport Act. I think it's very important to say that children's checks from six to 14 years of age to determine the general and special health skills to deal with sports are provided from the means of compulsory health insurance. For women operated on breast cancer, who have been made single-sided or mutually maximum-provided, the reconstruction or correction of the breast to the burden of compulsory health insurance is provided. It has also expanded the scope of the rights of insured persons by proposing that all adults, not only women, have the right to preventative checks on family planning, and not just women in terms of pregnancy. So that the burden of insurance can also be secured by immunisation and haemyoprofilax, which is very important in order to protect the population from infectious diseases. When we talk about the Health Protection Act, I would like to say that the new law detailedly regulates the health care system, its organisation, social care for the health of the population, the general interest, as well as the supervision of the implementation of this regulation. I'd just like to point out what it is to me, a lot of things you said in the opening statement, and a lot of my colleagues from the SNS, let's say I'm going to say what I'm very positive about. This is that the Agency for Accreditation of Health Institutions has been defined by this law, members of 196-202 and for the first time since 11 years of work of the Agency for Accreditation of Health Institutions has added the possibility of accreditation of private practice. This allows for the possibility of accreditation and private practice. In this context, the discrimination of private practice in the acquisition of national accreditation is eliminated. So far, the Agency has accredited over 200 health institutions, different levels, from health homes, KBC, KC, general hospitals, where there has been an increase in quality in providing health services and safety, both for patients and for employees. The new law also expects an increase in quality and safety in the provision of health services and in private practice. In voting day, the SNS will support all bill proposals and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52798	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52799	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, as well as my colleagues who spoke today, the authorised representative of Daniel, Wesna and Danica, refer first and foremost to the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act. What I want to say at first is that in addition to these laws that are quality and good roof laws, all praise you ministers for equipping health institutions and not forgetting that you made it possible to hire the first 100 best students, and then 60 of the best medical students who got specializations and paid doctoral studies and contracts for indefinite working hours. One such student who had an average of over 9 got a job at a general hospital in Vrbas and we thank you for that. In addition, I would like to point out that there are many good solutions in this law, which we welcome as a parliamentary group. Greater rights for those who don't have a health book. We're at the bar, because I come from local self-government, and we're dealing with this problem when it comes to the palitative care of people who don't have a health book, those who have lost their job in the privatisation process, who didn't have the right to retire and then came to us with a request to help them. They had the right to report as emergencies, but also to find ways that they could be treated. So thank you all for solving this problem we had at the bar with this legal solution. As for screening and preventive examinations, early detection of breast cancer, uterus and colon throats, I can tell you that in the general hospital in Vrbas just on 17 and 23 March and in the general hospital and in the home of health, preventive examinations, gynaecological examination and ultrasound of the breast are organized. So we are also involved in this action and I welcome what has been brought, although you say it is a criminal provision, here are some instructions, perhaps not popular, and I consider it a preventive measure for these preventive checks and I hope that we will have no need at all to use this criminal measure and sanction those who do not respond to a preventive review. We have, on many occasions, organised lectures in collaboration, local self-government in collaboration with doctors from the home of health and general hospital, precisely where we have pointed out to our fellow citizens the importance of this preventive gynaecological examination, as the cancer of the uterus develops over a period of 10 years and until it comes to that stage when it cannot be treated you are able to, once in six months or a year where we persuaded them to perform this gynological examination to be carcinoma treatable. The same is true of breast cancer that develops for 12 years somewhere, and that at that preclinical stage when a surgeon can feel it, it is somewhere in the last year, and therefore unusually important are all these preventive checks and work on the consciousness of our fellow citizens to respond to these preventive checks. We are second in Europe according to disease and mortality and therefore welcome this measure which, in case they do not respond three times to the call, to a preventive screening review and do not justify their absence, i.e. that they were not sick or were not away somewhere on the road, and that they would have to pay 35% of the cost of treatment. What's unusually important for us, too, is that parents of children who have had severe cancer disease have the right to suffer without a reduction during complete treatment to the healing of children or until the age of 18 and in full compensation of 100%, which so far was 65% and the illness could only be four months. The chosen doctor can open up a sick leave for temporary prevention from work now for up to 60 days, and there have been 30 days and doctors specialists besides the selected doctor, which we really welcome, to give instructions for hospital treatment, and that has made it difficult for patients when they report to a specialist for examination. Of course, some MPs have already mentioned it, but it is not burning for me to repeat it. Women who are operated on breast cancer now have the right to correct and reconstruct the breast on the cost of the state. As for the unification and possibility of uniting the home of health and general hospitals at the health center, it is certainly good what has been done, because we in particular were in the Vrbas municipality perhaps among the first to go into this process to separate Veljko Vlahović Health Center in Vrbas for a home of health and general hospital. Somewhere, Vojvodina got ahead of it, and it turned out that it caused us some problems, although I also welcome what you said today, that no one would be out of a job until he retired, because we then deployed these people to a home of health and in a general hospital, but we encountered one problem which is why this legal solution is good, that we had an extra doctor of a particular specialty in the home of health, and a lack of a specific pediatrician in the general hospital. Now we're going to solve this proposed merger solution and this problem and I think it's a good solution. We have spent a considerable amount of time on separation, and I hope, as it says in the bill, that we will need much less time to come together, and the fact that the founding rights have passed to the Republic of Serbia, that is, the autonomous province when it comes to the homes of health and general hospitals. In the AP Vojvodina and so far, the salaries have been financed, and I have to tell you that a very small amount of funds we were able to set aside for both health care and health care homes, and for that reason I think this is a good solution that you have suggested. The supplemental work of doctors in the home institution, institutions up to one third of the time, of course, and what you have explained, today is unusually important, that is, in case there is no waiting list and that doctors can most of the other with three private medical institutions sign those annex contracts. For all of these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the joint investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52800	Thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52801	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, respected colleagues, fellow MPs, the basic reason for the adoption of the Health Protection Act is the need for this area to be regulated in more detail and brought into line with the amended societies of economic relations since the previous law was passed in 2005. This law also regulates the health care system, its organisation, social care for the health of the population, general interest in health care and supervision of the implementation of this law. The definition of healthcare introduces the concept of health care, and the term – health care service and introduces a new, wider concept of health care systems made up of health institutions, private practice, medical professions and other legal persons performing health care activities, healthcare workers, associates and organisations and financing health care. In the population groups covered by social care for health, three new categories of population were introduced, primarily young and unemployed persons who are in school, and up to 26 years of life, persons with martial status, refugees and displaced persons with the place of residence in Serbia and victims of terrorism, as well as persons who are provided, except mandatory and special immunisation and persons who provide screening according to appropriate national programmes. For reasons of integrity, simplification and efficiency of the process, it is prescribed that, instead of the current plan for the development of health care by the National Assembly, a strategy for the development of health care is now being adopted by the Government. As a general interest in health care, it is introduced and financed from the financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, notably by implementing the objective of preventive checks, i.e. screening, management of medical waste, the provision of specialisation and subspecies, the provision of property and collective insurance of employees resulting from injuries, i.e. an accident, the ongoing maintenance of facilities and the cost of investment investment, investment maintenance and the purchase of medical and non-medical equipment. The principle of health care introduces a new principle, respect for human rights and values in health care. As a legal term, the concept of healthcare service providers, public and private health institutions, higher education institutions of health professions and educational scientific institutions is introduced, with the opinion of the Ministry, private practice, healthcare professionals who carry out their work in accordance with the law, etc. Health centres, general hospitals, health homes whose founders are republics or autonomous provinces are reintroduced into the health system, and the plan provides for health centres to exist. A new legal solution is also introduced that enables the healthcare institution to hire workers of another speciality for work in its establishment by concluding a contract on additional work, thus improving the quality of health care provision, while health care is safer and safer. Otherwise, health institutions can also be organised on rules governing a public-private partnership. Data is also the definition of introducing new health technologies into the work of health centres or general hospitals. New health technology is being introduced by the Minister of Health's solution. Thus, at the end of December 2014, the Sombor hospital received a solution to introduce new technology into its work, an angelic hall in which heart and somboro citizens are now being categorized, no longer have to wait for this diagnostic method and go to the list of cardiovascular institutes in Sremska Kamenica. It should be pointed out that the Health Protection Act is also in line with biomedicine laws. In addition, the organisation’s screening unit must establish and keep an electronic record, which refers to the implementation of the national programme for the early detection of diseases. As for the election of directors of health institutions, a new legal solution has been introduced to appoint directors to four years with the right to re-election. Given that the health of all Serbian citizens is of particular national interest, it provides only a developed health system and developed health care, as well as well as well-organised and equipped health centres and health homes, unfortunately, during the previous regime, and has been particularly demonstrated in Vojvodina, the most important issue of citizens, their health, was not given enough attention, rather, it was not there. In addition to this claim, I remind you of the enormous debts of pharmacies that the government of the Republic of Serbia faced right at the beginning of its mandate, which is why we were in the drugstores instigating empty shelves. The former government wasn't interested at all. With the arrival of SNS, from 2012 to today, we have achieved a significant shift on the health scale, and the picture of homes of health and health centres throughout Serbia, as well as in my Sombor, is much better, nicer and quite different. The picture that went into consciousness about the award of 29 modernly equipped sanitary vehicles provided and assigned by the government of the AP Vojvodina to the health homes in Vojvodina suggests and says that this government is caring for our citizens and that it is seeking to improve the quality of health care in Serbia at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52802	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52803	Dear citizens who are watching the transfer, to mention only, beyond this set of health laws that we are considering today, that in the past two years we have had more sets from different areas of health care, so I would like to commend the work of the Ministry, namely both the Government and President Vukic, because the activities of the Ministry in a legislative sense were very important. All these laws have brought many improvements and improvements to health care in the area to which it applies. In addition to praise for the dedicated, responsible work of the Ministry, as regards legislative matters, I mean the laws, my colleagues mentioned, I must mention that there have been a lot of investment investments in this past period, a lot of investment in the purchase of equipment, a lot of investment and effort in the reception of new staff, both young doctors, so related to the approval of specialization, so as to the medium medical staff. So, in all aspects of praise for the ministry's work, not just in this legislative sense. Of course, we've already said, these two laws are roof laws in health care, especially the Health Protection Act. I've listed the very large things that represent the newspaper and have significantly improved some health relations. Did I count correctly? I've counted 56 newspapers, not counting a lot of groomings that represent harmonising this law with already passed laws. So if you look at the number of members and what I have registered, I think that many members have been corrected, in one way or another, it means that in many elements this law has brought about improvement and thus raising the quality of health services, which is mostly for our citizens' purposes. And now, a little more concrete, some things that my colleagues didn't mention, to mention for the sake of the citizens. Instead of the current Health Development Plan brought by the National Assembly, the future Health Protection Development Strategy is being considered by the Government, or the Government will be the one to adopt the health strategy. On the rationalization of the work of health institutions several colleagues said, long ago when Tomica Milosavljevic with "yellow" and with G17 separated the health centres and when it was pointed out and then, based on the logic of rationalisation, both equipment, so staff, such financial opportunities of local self-government, it was then rejected against the wall, with many arguments. They pushed it out and went into breaking and bringing into these situations that health homes belong to local self-governments and now, thanks to the SNS and the ministry's work, what shouldn't have happened has to happen and now they have to chestnut out of the fire to pull it out, but they've rightly regulated it, and that's good. Fortunately, I think seven-eight maybe the health centers didn't even make it apart, so they'll practically be in the status they were in. What else is there to say? It should be mentioned that in this part, a relationship between the Ministry of Health and the Faculty of Medical Sciences has been resolved in some way, where it has been lawfully tried to resolve the issue of co-operation of the medical departments, in the sense of teachers and associates, to properly resolve the issue of leadership, because of viewers, the exercises of the professors from clinical cases, since they are dealing with the patient, implies and the health care part of the work, will, of course, be resolved by appropriate contracts and between the colleges and clinical centres to be resolved in detail. What else is very significant? There was a discrepancy between hiring and waiting for a doctor at the Bureau and receiving students to medical schools. Here in this legislation an appropriate opinion on registration policy should also be given by the Ministry of Health, of course, with the consent of the Minister of Higher Education. So I hope that this cooperation will solve this dissipation, this problem with medical students and later, when they're done, with their employment problems. So it's the same important thing to mention. I mentioned in that co-operation connotation that the status of teachers and university associates would be regulated. What's one more thing, to mention, that I'm not wasting my time for other colleagues? In this law, what is said to be complementary medicine is essentially changing the term traditional medicine into complementary medicine, because it is considered to be a more adequate term and according to this and the ministry forms a republican expert commission for complementary medicine and giving a solution to those who are going to deal with this area and methods and procedures of complementary medicine. It's another newspaper. There are others and nomenclature, no more dentistry doctors, but dental medicine. Once again, in the end, this is a law that is full of newspapers that improves not only the law, because improving the law actually improves the work of health care and medical staff, and therefore patients get a better service and have greater professional, personal and emotional security in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52804	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Violeta Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52805	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will focus my exposure on the Health Law, that is, the Proposal for a Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act. First of all, I want to tell you that, as a doctor in primary health care, I have often witnessed problems that patients face, both at primary and secondary and tertiary levels of health care, but I believe that the adoption of these laws and the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act will solve most of these problems. Since we passed the law the last time in 2005 and had suffered a large number of amendments and additions to the bill, i.e. members of these laws, I actually see an absolute necessity for the adoption of new laws, both on health care and the Health Insurance Act. With these laws, we first and foremost provide our citizens of the Republic of Serbia with one social security. Then, what we get through the adoption of these laws, both the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act, is to improve quality and health care and health insurance, and also to monitor modern achievements in medicine, as well as newspapers in health care. These laws bring us into line the constant need to increase the population’s health care needs, i.e. to provide health care, resulting in an increase in the volume of health insurance. All this leads to financial allocations, increased financial resources and in the distribution of the Ministry of Health and the division of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund, or more financial resources will be separated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we will have on one hand a reasonable understanding of how much financial resources should be allocated and how much real needs are needed. Also, these laws and the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act are directly linked to all organisations that directly or indirectly affect the implementation of both health and health care organisations. I'll just briefly look back on the good things we get by passing the Health Insurance Act. First of all, we are now defining clearly what is mandatory health insurance from voluntary health insurance, who is being executed, who will allocate funds to implement them. Also, we're expanding the real security base. For farmers, we have two new grounds for insurance for pensioners and disability benefits for foreign pensioners, and these people are resident in our country's territory and distinguishing from the use of these funds, when our country has signed an international contract with foreign countries than those with which it does not exist. We also determine health insurance priorities, rather we get into a situation where one insurance company has more insurance rights, but we will choose only one insurance base. Then we introduce two new basics of security for victims of terrorism, as well as for fighters according to all the regulations and principles they belong to. We have a new definition of work injuries, new damage lists with which doctors will, above all, meet on primary health insurance and extended insurance rights. When we talk about extended insurance rights we actually have here that the right of insurance is extended to family planning in all adult visions of the population, not only for pregnant women, and we also have that this law allows us to improve the material and social position of the family, which I would point out as one of the best measures introduced by this law, the Health Insurance Act, and this is the right to cash compensation where due to some need for the care of family members or children suffer from malignancies or damage to the brain or condition where prolonged rehabilitation is required. The person who takes care of that family member or his child will have 100% cash compensation, unlike before, and there was 65%. Also, this law recognises compliance with the Sport Act where all children from six to fourteen years of age have the right to carry out all examinations related to the performance of sporting activities on the cost of compulsory health insurance. What I would point out, as a positive one, is the expansion of the insurance volume in people after mastectomy, where the cost of RFO is made possible to ensure that, after the mastectomy of removing one or both breasts on the cost of RFZO performs reconstructions of the same and thus improve both their health status and mental status. This law also regulates a package of health services, their numerals, the price list and clearly defines what it means to finance from the means of compulsory health insurance. This law also gives the right to persons who do not have health care, i.e. to be understood by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what I am saying, means those who do not have a certified health book have the possibility of being free of treatment, i.e. 100% on the cost of RFZO, were previously only an emergency, and now under the full 100% payment by RFZO is also a palitative care, also for the implementation of screening and protection of the population of infectious diseases, i.e. the implementation of immunisation. Categories that make up necessarily insured persons are socially endangered categories of the population, also persons with disabilities, voluntary organ, cell and tissue donors. To implement these laws, funds have been provided in the RFZO, as well as in the Republic of Serbia's budget at the department of health and it has been confirmed that the Ministry of Health has a good relationship and hearing with other ministries that have jointly carried out the Health Insurance Act. I would only briefly say about the Health Protection Act that the adoption of this law is absolutely justified because it also increases the quality of the health of the population, as well as the quantity. All this leads to positive effects both on health institutions and on patients and on private practice, as well as on the health care system. Because of the many positive effects I have not been able to count, when it comes to health insurance and health care laws. In voting day, I will support this package of laws and I call on my colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52806	Thank you, colleague. The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52807	I thank the Presidency, respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS supports the proposed health laws that will wrap up the health reform process in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the proposed laws introduces a more rational organisation of health institutions in public property and the takeover of founding rights over public health institutions by the Republic, or the AP. Health centres are reintroduced for reasons of overallity, i.e. for better organisation of work, better use and availability of personnel, space and equipment. The adoption of this law achieves effective, accessible and accessible health care in the territory of the entire country, introduces a public-private partnership in the health system, facilitates the establishment and operation of private practice, harmonizes the registration policy on higher education institutions of health care professions in line with human health needs. In addition to the adoption of a large number of new laws, the government's policy is also reflected in the security and implementation of strategic projects and new investments. Progress in health information, introduction of electronic prescriptions, shortened waiting time for treatment of cancer patients, improved mental health status, significant results in reduced use of antibiotics, as well as record results in organ transplants, led Serbia's health from the last 34th to an enviable 18th place in Europe. The previous year will remain recorded by a large number of donors, a large number of transplants made. A bone marrow transplant centre has been opened at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and has invested 90 million dinars. We have reached EU standards in this area and rightly expect Eurotransplant membership, which would mean greater opportunities for transplanting those citizens who need the authorities. A Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad was established and this route was addressed by a large number of the youngest patients in the best foreign clinics. For this purpose, 465 million dinars were allocated to the Republic of Serbia's 2019 budget, allowing constant arrival of foreign experts to treat the insurance companies in their country and domestic doctors to acquire new knowledge, Serbia has also recognised the importance of caring for patients with rare diseases of around 450,000 in the country and has defined two billion dinars for their treatment in the 2019 budget. In 2012 130 million dinars were allocated for the same purpose. The Nis Clinical Centre, which has invested 50m euros in equipment, was built. The funds have been provided for the completion of clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. New health homes have been built, completely renovated almost all health institutions in Serbia. A Gamma knife was obtained, as well as a modern radiotherapy apparatus for stereotoxic radiosurgery. Every day on this machine, they'll be able to radiate up to 30 patients. It will significantly shorten the radiation time, so instead of four weeks of treatment, it will take five days. Building and equipping the new facility of the Institute of Oncology and Radiology and procurement over ten linear accelerators and CT simulators in previous years, Serbia has met world standards in treating cancer patients, which is that it has a modern radiation apparatus for 250,000 inhabitants. Over 7,000 specializations and subspecies have been allocated for the last five years, mostly from the deficitary branches of medicine, such as anesthesiology, radiology, paediatrics, neurosurgery and other branches. By the end of this year, the first young experts in these areas will be worthy and quality replace their retired colleagues. For the first time, unemployed doctor medicine can get specialization without a previous two-year internship, such as former practice and thus enable young people to professionally improve and provide themselves with a quality job. Over a hundred of the best graduates of medical schools, they got jobs at health institutions in Serbia. The initiative to hire the best young doctors, this will not be completed, but will be delivered to the Ministry of Medicine every six months with the names of the best graduates who completed the university in time and with the best grades. These facts are evidence of the strategic visionary policies of the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which fundamentally realises projects of vital importance for the development of our country. Only new investment in infrastructure and the adoption of good legal and other rules will create better conditions for continuing the reforms that aim to increase citizens' living standards. So, the SNS will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52808	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. He's not here. The word is from a colleague Jelena Vujic Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52809	Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Honorable Chairman, honourable Ministers Loncar, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia. The proposed laws, which are on the agenda of the assembly's decision, both the laws passed by the Ministry of Health and amendments to the law passed by fellow counterpart Marija Obradovic and all other amendments to the law, the JS MPs believe these are very high-quality laws and have caused exceptional attention to the citizens of Serbia and the public, so that the JS parliamentary group headed by our president, respected Dragan Markovic Palm, will support all proposals of the law. As for the laws passed by the Ministry of Health, we have health insurance laws and health care laws, which I'm going to talk about today. It should be noted that Serbia has suffered major consequences of the bombing over the past 20 years. That fact must not be ignored and that this has affected the health of Serbian citizens, but unfortunately our children's health. This law, respected ministers, has dealt with very important problems, when it comes to the health of our children and the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the support of parents who must and should be with their children, not only physically, but also need full financial support, when it comes to receiving what you have done with this law and where parents, instead of the current 65% of the salary, will now have a 100% compensation when this law is passed. Serbia is struggling with major difficulties and problems, so the health care law and the health insurance law is a very high quality and good law. The accent put in place refers to support in treating children, better treatment conditions, as well as greater support for parents who suffer from child disease. Dear citizens of Serbia, is there anything more important than the lives and health of Serbian citizens, than the lives and health of our children and the support that parents, with all the ongoing problems that follow them when their child gets sick, not to get the support of the state? By this law, they'll get one such support. The respect of one of these laws. I must conclude that my fellow MPs from the JS Group, when we legally analyzed the health care law, unanimously agreed that the law was extremely high-quality and that we would support all proposed legal changes. We have recognized the will of the promoters regarding major changes in the health system. You ministers have taken large and courageous steps in health care, in health system reforms, you are engaged in rebuilding and reconstructing hospitals, clinical centres, and then children suffer from rare diseases that cannot be treated in Serbia, now have the opportunity to treat the cost of the state abroad. The procedure has been significantly simplified and shortened, so that with a small consultation of the doctors and workers of the RFO and these health centres, they may need to be directed a little bit further. I've had a case in the Municipality of Alexandrovac, where I come from, so here's the opportunity to ask you, and of course the health of every child is important, but we have a child who needs urgent intervention, so we had to intervene, to speed up and help, which should be treated in Greece, where the stem cells for this boy's treatment were normally provided. Also, the parents whose children are sick, you now allow them to stay with their children throughout the course of the disease. The restrictions so far, when it comes to malignancies, rare diseases, chronic diseases that require years of treatment, disease now for two months, supplementary and additional insurance, 100% care for a sick child to adulthood, and these are just some of the papers this law allows. Also, the population group covers new categories of population. We now have young and unemployed persons, who are not in school until the age of 26, persons with fighter status, refugees and exiled persons, then persons who provide recommended immunization and victims of terrorism. The laws ahead of us, in addition to all these newspapers they bring, I believe the citizens of Serbia will be pleased. The proposal for a health insurance law has very clear objectives, which is – achieving and improving certain health insurance and healthcare rights. According to current law, insurance companies with a certified health book could be treated and enjoyed all health care privileges, but there was a problem with insurance, which under the circumstances did not have a certified health book and so far could only receive protection when it comes to emergency medical care. With these amendments and additions to the law, they now have much greater medical protection. Also, you've made it possible for doctors, in addition to actively conducting specializations that were now carried out in municipalities, smaller, 10, 15 years old, were not allowed to specialize in doctors, we now have the active sending of doctors to specializations, then you will allow them to have doctors, in addition to being employed in a particular institution and to work additionally, both in a facility where they are employed and in private institutions. Then, privates will be able to rent space from state institutions for 20 years, of course to institutions where that space is not needed, so after 20 years this space will be able to, meaning, remain with the state with all the equipment in it. So the law has clear goals, we have longer sick leave, hospitalization without instructions, child care, public-private partnership, payment with better conditions. We have paid transportation to the hospital and all these very important legal changes, so you will have the full support of the JS parliamentary group that will support the entire set of your law. As far as the Traffic Safety Act is concerned, it's a very important thing for farmers. Serbian citizens have been rightly very upset lately, there are many people, especially in the interior where I come from and a large number of JS MPs where the population is engaged in agriculture, that now they will not have to register, I say, their agricultural machines, but will be able, with a certain technical correctness, to simply continue their registration. So the Transport Safety Act, the JS MPs, will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52810	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52811	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister Loncar and his associates, the honourable MPs. Dear MP Vera Paunovic made it very precise and clear about the views of the PUPS parliamentary group and I have no reason to comment on it and repeat it. Also, most MPs spoke specifically to the doctor of the MPs, and I support those views when it comes to the profession. Dear Minister Lončar, I would ask you on behalf of the most numerous and most endangered healthcare users to improve the measures and work done in the homes of health, clinics and clinics in the operational sense and healthcare organisation. In this regard, I think it is important to point out that the state is making huge efforts, both in the construction of clinical centres and equipment, but there are also very good examples such as Novi Sad, AP Vojvodina, which are making huge efforts both in investment and in equipment to improve top health care. In this regard, I would only underline the need to engage both institutions and healthcare professionals to pay special attention to the most vulnerable healthcare users. That's what these laws provide and create the assumption of doing something like that. First of all, it refers to the long waits in the appointment of the review, the long waits in front of the office, the long waits with the specialist, the payment of the participation where we agreed and created the conditions not to do so. Personally, I think these are the kind of opportunities that are primarily binding, as I said, healthcare institutions and healthcare professionals to improve this situation in the coming period. For these reasons and many others who have been presented, we will support these laws and ensure that the most vulnerable category of healthcare users is more satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52812	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? Because no one's answering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52813	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, after this exhaustive debate we have heard during this period, therefore, and the MPs whose presentations we have been able to hear, one fact is really being imposed as a conclusion, and this is that at this moment we have really very serious and constructive proposals by the promoters, and this means that these legislative solutions that have been proposed are also showing the seriousness with which the problem in health care is being seen, I am talking in general, not only about health insurance, general use items, precursors, but I am already talking about all those things that are happening on a daily basis in our health system. What is most important is that these legal solutions are illustrated and the desire that everything that is in force in a previous period of time is recognised as a bad legal solution, the desire is to change it and, in practice, to change it after this legal solution as a result of all of our joint efforts, we get one significantly better health system. So afterwards, I say once again, such an intense debate in principle, I expect a very high-quality debate in particular, when the moment comes, and after that we will go first and foremost to the citizens with something they expect, which is the fact that every person who is a citizen of this country, every citizen of this country, and what is very important is that we work together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, together with President Aleksandra Vukic, not only the health system, but to fix all segments of what we can and where we participate as individuals and as citizens. As a conclusion, I can only say the absolute support of the ruling majority for this law and I want a lot of success in further work, and in the voting day we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-27-0.u52814	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled examination of the draft law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 74 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj.
