ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice, an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60826	Thank you, Chairman. We will address the Ministry of Environmental Protection with the question of how many cities and municipalities in Serbia have come up with air quality plans and how much resources in the local self-government budget to improve the quality of air in their environments? This summer, a UN report showing that air pollution in many environments in Serbia has crossed the allowed norms up to five times, that as a result of air pollution, life expectancy in Serbia lasts longer than 1.3 years and that every fifth premature death in Serbia is due to air pollution. According to the World Health Organization, during 2016 due to air pollution, we had 11,400 premature deaths, an increased number of chronic patients. Especially respiratory diseases are also due to poor air quality in Serbia. OSCE estimates, World Health Organisations and the EU that the cost of premature deaths and the treatment of diseases caused by air pollution in Serbia cost around four billion euros. PM10 is estimated to carry up to 6,000 lives in Serbia annually. PM10 particles are dust particles less than 10 micrometers in diameter, which are very easy to breathe into the lungs and are stored in them. The European Union and the European Commission have warned us of a high level of air pollution and, above all, ask our authorities for improved monitoring of air quality, better, more often and more comprehensibly informing citizens about the quality of air inhaled, the development of a national strategy and local air quality plans in Serbia. The plans of local self-government to improve air quality are lagging low, as the funds in their budgets are lagging behind for these purposes. There are not even projects designed to reduce air pollution. The European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in European integration finds only limited progress in Serbia's area. Only a few cities have local air quality plans to which they are legally required, but there are no data on the application of these plans. It happens that in the days when pollution is measured, up to 12 times larger. Officials just don't keep it in their reports. Otherwise, the most polluted air is traditionally every winter in Belgrade, Užica and Valjevo, and the sources of pollution are, above all, solid and fossil fuels that we use to produce heat and electricity. So coal, lube, then uncleaned and outdated boilers, smog and a large average age of vehicles, many of which do not meet the strongest European standards on emissions of harmful gases. The problem of air quality that we breathe and which is, in fact, the biggest silent killer of Serbian citizens is covered by Chapter 27 of the European integration process, and this is one of those chapters that not even the biggest Eurosceptics can have, similar to those in which, for example, food safety issues are treated. Even the biggest opponents of European integration on such chapters do not have major objections to Brussels requirements. I recommend that citizens visit the National Convention on the EU and read there a book of recommendations to the Serbian government and other state bodies regarding Chapter 27 and the protection of the environment in Serbia, where at least a dozen pages cover these problems and benefits that citizens may have. The Fiscal Council, in its Report, called "Investments in the Protection of the Environment, Social and Fiscal Priorities", of June 2018, also estimated that the area of environmental protection should have a budgetary priority in the coming years and that some 500m euros in funding for investment in environmental protection should be allocated annually. This is about 1.2% to 1.4% of GDP of the additional money that should be invested and would certainly have a positive impact on both the whole economy and economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60827	Thank you, colleague Guric. Whether any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60828	I thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to ask a few questions, specifically about certain things in the part of the development of agriculture. One of those questions is cooperative. We are witnessing that several years ago a great activity is being put on the subject of cooperativeism and I am interested in how many, within the framework of cooperativeship, new cooperatives are formed, from how many cooperatives are active? Finally, how many of these cooperatives have the opportunity to progress, to provide better goods production, to produce larger quantities of products and normally to employ people? Otherwise, I can also thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our president, the normal and competent minister who works in the part of the cooperative, because I think we have now put a major emphasis on cooperativeism. Without strong cooperativeship, I am sure, there is no success or development of small municipalities or the development of our southeast Serbia and the whole of Serbia. As part of the cooperative, we have the possibility and control of everything that's done, we're getting out of the gray zone that there's no working on black anymore. Finally, normally, a safer market with better conditions and a better price will be provided. Regarding the Association of Serbia, one question, how many cooperative alliances in Serbia's territory now? I'm interested in how many presidents in these county cooperative alliances, people who were in some previous period, people who ran cooperatives and who participated in the involvement of cooperatives? We are witnessing that by 2000 and after that a large number of cooperatives went into bankruptcy, and a large number of property and property of these cooperatives disappeared in a magical way. The same was true of those individuals who now run the district cooperative alliances. I'm not going to name the ones I know right now, they're going to find it, but in some next session, I'm sure I'll do it, and I'll definitely say exactly what they're doing, how they do it, and how they influence the formation of cooperatives. At one point, they influence that when a cooperative is formed, they go and talk to them. In a way, they're looking for some use to themselves when they're forming and competing for some means tomorrow. They may also have their own personal and financial interest. I'll talk about it in some future period. Otherwise, as far as cooperativery is concerned, it's a really big deal, a good thing, once again I thank the competent minister, Krkobabić, who is working on it. I expect that together with him and all of us here in the Assembly, we will give support to both cooperative and agricultural development, and normally our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, is working on it. We're all going around those middles together in southeastern Serbia, small municipalities, rural areas, and I think a lot of things will be better in the next period. One more thing I'd like to ask, it's about "Herbogal", it's a former "Krka". It's a company that was once in Srlig, and I've been asking the question before, the issue has been addressed to the Health Fund of the Republic of Serbia, the competent health ministry and the foreign ministry. The "Krka" finished its work in the period after 1990, a new firm, "Herbogal", began. Since 2000, this company has been bankrupt. Now this company has a chance to work, to work, but back to 2019 until today, that company is in bankruptcy. It can't be sold because it's in the succession process. I would ask if there is a possibility that in the coming period, since we have great activities, a common, friendly relationship with people, with the President of Slovenia, with the President of the National Assembly of Slovenia, and now with us and our friends from the National Assembly of Slovenia, MPs of the Club of Friendship with Serbia Predrag Bakovic, with two other MPs visiting our parliament, they will be later with us and will see how we are doing, I would ask if there is a possibility that the firm "Herbogal" could be put into office, that this succession, in some way, be resolved, to find a way and that Svrljig would get a place where agricultural production could be done? It's got a freezer, a dryer, and it's got a chance to put it into service tomorrow. So, a concrete question – is there a possibility that when will the company "Herbogal" be released to work and to be new jobs together in Srljig, to employ people and to make income for the municipality of Srljig, and thus to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia? One more thing, for me, which is very important, is the continuation of construction from Malcana Loop Street to Književci Street, it is in the part of Nis from Svrljig, from Zaječar to Svrljig towards Nis, will this road be reconstructed and done, because that road was very important because the payment ramp in the part of the Malcanic loop is already being made? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60829	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60830	Thank you. I have two questions. It is one thing, since I suppose that Mr. Sarcevic will be able to explain it more widely, it concerns this information that in the White Church high school, one or two professors were left without a job because they were asked to, I quote: "Botuje for the ruling party", that it was a condition that they were set up, that they were conditioned to go to the president of the municipality and agree on whether to translate that ugly word, "botting", that in their spare time, or outside of working time, they were working on writing on social networks in favour of the ruling party. It's a tremendously heavy charge that gets in the way, although it seems petty in relation to everything we do and what surrounds us and what happens every day, but here we have black on white. We have a person, more specifically two people who have made such an accusation and have even a former director who has confirmed that there have been such pressures. So, I think that the Ministry of Education, or Mr. Sarcevic, is mandatory if it hasn't already done so, I would stress if it hadn't already done so, that the most urgent investigation of the case and announced whether it was true and that, as I would say, I would take the appropriate measures if it were true. If it isn't, let it be made public. I think it has grounds even for the intervention of the MUP if these accusations are true that some professors, mentioned their names, English and mathematics, were fired, were not extended their working relationship even though there was a need for their interests, or for their engagement because they were asked to deal with lobbying or "botting" or agitating for the ruling party. The second question goes to the address of the Prime Minister and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and concerns something he said in a long series of flagrant fouls, auto-nakeds, violations and anti-constitutional actions, perhaps not only the last, but hopefully the most large and not the more extensive examples. It is said that elections have been re-scheduled and will be held in early October in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. Pristina institutions have called extraordinary parliamentary elections and are again preparing for the Serb list to take part, as well as some Serbian lists and some Serbian representatives. I, as well as the people who are politically close to me, do not support these elections, i.e. they do not support the election and I advocate their boycott, but, as I would say, it is a political assessment, and I always respect the opinion of the people who live there and their interests are also important. Always right behind those interests, that was also the reason the Serb list has participated in the elections so far. Now, however, most of whose bitter pill is further bitter that the Pristina Central Election Commission has concluded that, for the first time, it will not be able to vote with Serbian documents, or with a Serbian ID card. Pristina, or Kosovo documents are required. Of course, the formulation is legally sufficiently undefined, but also of course, when Serbs were to be brought in or forced to go to the polls, they could be voted with Serbian documents. The binding stance and final position of the CEC of Pristina, i.e. Kosovo, are now prohibited, explicitly prohibiting voting with Serbian documents. So here we have heard a lot, as I said, in the country, and in this assembly, and in our media, and in our society, a lot of bitter pills, we have heard a lot of hard words at the expense of the previous authorities, what they have done or what they have not done about KIM and what issues they have brought to the International Court of Justice and so on. So, during all these previous authorities, we simply have to look ourselves in the eye, like it or not, Serbs either did not vote in the Pristina elections or were able to vote with Serbian documents, and in the end there were elections in the organisation of UNMIK, the OSCE, so there were no direct elections organised by Pristina authorities. All this has been changed for the sake of the Serbian agreement, all this has been changed in 2013 and now this last one is coming, as I would say, not hot potatoes, but a slap. I appeal to those responsible in the government of Serbia, the KIM Ministry to call on Serbs not to go to that election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60831	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60832	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. As you know, the SRS has warned about the theft, the grand theft, getting ready in business and making contracts to build the so-called. Moravia corridor, i.e. Highway Preljina – Prijate. We had the opportunity to see, such a once time, that it was estimated to be worth about 550m euros. We warned that there was an internal agreement, i.e. A deal between Zorana Mihajlovic, who is the government minister in charge of construction and the US Embassy in Belgrade, that such a job is obtained by an American firm and that the tender was such that only Bechtel can pass through it, that no other offer has appeared at all. We're seeing it now, and we've heard it's not definitive, and we've heard it in this room several times from the president of the SNS that nowhere in the law, i.e. The medicine, which was brought in because of this highway, does not stand for Bechtel. We warned, we were told to invent, and Zorana Mihajlovic, when criticises this way of making deals, when this obvious theft is criticised, so more than 300m euros, says who criticises it is against the highway. So we're not against highways, we're against thieving. We believe, and I would also like to refer the team to Ms. Ani Brnabic, that Zorana Mihajlovic, after an affair like this, must not remain a minister in the Serbian government, that this is the biggest scandal so far, and we have had the opportunity to make sure that she has repeatedly worked to harm the state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from being open against the SPC to disrupting our friendly relations with the largest allies of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. The issue needs to be resolved urgently and whoever concluded such a deal, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose fault was stolen 300m euros, should go to prison. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has today handed over more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens to the National Assembly for the abolition of the public enforcement institution, as well as a new draft law on enforcement. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are most bitter at public executioners, for their actions. They wrapped Serbia in black, enormously enriched on those poorest citizens of Serbia, above all, do not bend out of anything, nor do they care to throw out families, pensioners, single parents from their apartments, and all in order to make extra profits. We think and I am convinced of that, and this petition also shows that a large number of Serbian citizens advocate the abolition of such an institution. We have submitted a proposal for a new law which restores enforcement to the jurisdiction of the courts. First of all, we're not about someone not paying their debts, and that doesn't mean, unless someone's able to pay, that they should be, in the end, robbed and left without a roof over their heads. First of all, to return to the courts, under the control of the state, and we do not know under whose control public executioners are and to guarantee everyone a minimum of 12 squares of living space per family head, i.e. by a household member who must not be touched, i.e. The execution must not be carried out. We appeal to the ruling majority, i.e. to the SNS, which was against this institution when the DS introduced this institution into Serbia, and now supports, that as soon as the debate on the matter is opened, the institution abolishes the execution, returns to the courts, that anyone who robbed Serbian citizens responds and that we stand once and for all to end such arrogant work and such thieving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60833	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word is made by the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60834	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to draw attention to the great planetary problem, which is that the ozone layer is getting thinner and threatened every day. Yesterday, September 16th, is Ozone Cover Day. In 1970, scientists discovered that the ozone layer was getting thinner, especially above the southern pole, and that phenomenon was marked as an ozone hole. The reason for this was a large production of various sprays containing harmful gases. In order to prevent the destruction of the ozone layer, many international agreements have been signed, starting with Montreal, and the goal is to limit and reduce the missions of these gases, but regardless of the reduction in spray production, the ozone envelope is compromised, because on the other hand, the world, rushing for money, is ruthlessly destroying the ozone producer, and these are forests that can be considered the lungs of the planet Earth. Today I want to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry – what is the state of the forest in Serbia and how much does it seem to increase the degree of noise declared in the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia by 41%? In this regard, when will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management make a strategy for shaming in Serbia? As we know, the city of Belgrade worked that strategy seven years ago and we expect the same strategy for the entire Republic of Serbia to be done by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60835	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60836	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. My question was addressed to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, and more in the form of a proposal and application to put Italy on the list of countries in the region, so that the Serb people living in this country could participate in competitions to co-finance projects for the production of media content for members of our people in the countries of the region, which the Ministry of the Motherland regularly announces, as support in the field of public information in the mother tongue in the preservation of Serbian language, national and cultural identity. The right to compete now only have countries where the indigenousity of the Serbian people has been confirmed, according to the foreign ministry's law, which is quite old and are former SFRY countries plus Hungary, Romania and Albania. I ask the Ministry – why is Italy excluded? The exemption of Italy as a country in the region is unexplainable when it is known that in the country Serbs have lived for over 300 years as a recognised nation and community of hosts, and even mass settlement begins in the second half of the 15th century, with Despot Stefan Brankovic, the last peaceful ruler in Serbia who spent 20 years there in the area of Udin, where he moved his court. The first Serbian folk song was not printed in Serbian, but printed in Italy. Italy deserved to be included in the countries of the region, not only in its geographical position, not only in the indigenousity of the Serb people, but in the fact that the number of Serbs keeps growing in Italy. More and more despite other trends, more and more are the founders of Serbian nationalities who are enrolling Italian schools, and that there has been no media in Serbian for decades in Italy. Relative scientific studies warn that without the full attention and involvement of the queen state, it is an imminent simulation and disappearance of national identity. I will remind only that this year we have marked 140 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Italy and Serbia, although at the court of the aforementioned despot, there was a regular ambassador to Venice. A Serbian from Trieste Evgenija Popovic is one of the closest associates of Garibaldi, the father of the Italian nation, a uniter of the Italian state. Garibaldi did not forget it for the Serbs, especially the Trst Serbs, and himself led a volunteer unit, the Garibaldi, to help the Herzegovic uprisings. The first ships to Albania to save the Serbian army were Italian Navy ships and were nothing less than French. However, after World War II, we covered it up, closed our eyes to the banishment of Italians from Istria and Dalmatia, for the love of the brothers, for the Croats who brought it back to us "Bleski", "Storm" and returned it to us today verbally, in every way. With the promotion of the book, Dr Mile Mihajlovic "For the Serbian Army – a forgotten story", the ceremony of the 100th anniversary of the Great War in Italy began. What importance Serbia has given diplomatic relations with Italy is best spoken by the names of our ambassadors who were in Italy between the two wars. These are, in this order Milan Rakic, Jovan Dučić, Milos Crnjanski, Ivo Andric. On the other hand, the most famous diplomats came from Italy. There is much more to be said about Italian-Serbian relations, but I think this is enough to recognise the need for the status of the Serb people to be kept, that it must be taken care of in the Apeninian Peninsula. I would take another short chance to appeal to the Minister of Health Mr. Zlatibor Loncar, the Ministry of Health, to take care of the nation's health. He can't take care of every single patient, but I was worried about the fact that suicide is a mental illness on the rise that is increasingly tragically ending. There are thousands of people each day who commit suicide in the world, and unfortunately that number is growing with tragic consequences with us. I think we should go ahead and solve some potential cases. The evening doctor Dr Jovo Bakic is increasingly showing such a tendency. His distraught view, the doctor might have noticed earlier, the hatred intolerable, a speech filled with anger addressed to the country's president, Alexander Vukic, and to the state summit, as well as to the Serbian advanced party, really deserves full attention. It is particularly dangerous that this man is at the head of the Self-Defense movement, so I fear that after the publication of the result in the future regular elections there are tragic consequences of genocide and we must make sure that we save ourselves from self-defense. This other political suicide of parties who announced that they were boycotting the elections the other day, has no larger state or social significance and that is their sovereign right. A long time ago, political suicide and the end and the consequences of political parties without programmes, no ideas, no morals, no followers of membership and voters. They found it better to pretend dead so the public wouldn't find out after the election if they weren't alive long ago. Maybe that's the best solution. The only thing that matters is that Serbia has no damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60837	I thank my colleague Krlic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the Assembly of the 18th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the next Dn e n i d 1 was set. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. Law on the confirmation of the amending and supplementing contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, the international contract number 11-17, which was submitted by the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Law, No 02-2265/19, of 4 September 2019. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Mladen Sarcevic Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Prof. Dr. Bojan Tubic, V.D. Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. We move to the First Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the law on higher education. Does the president, Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education, science and technological development want a word? Yes, the word is Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60838	On the basis of the government's proposal and on the basis of the decision of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Society, Article 1 should extend its rights to students who are studying under the old programme by 2021 to complete their studies for another two years. For the field of integrated medical science studies by the end of the school 2021-2022. Also doctoral and master studies according to the same principle. Independent higher education institutions will bring their general acts into line with this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. What is very important, since we also have that second category of students who started in Bologna, as the old Bolognas are called in the jargon, they also get the right to extend some of the deadlines they missed by recommending the Ministry of Education to higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60839	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Djordje Kosanic. Here you go, colleague Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60840	The Honorable Ministers with an associate from the Ministry, Mr Tubic, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are today ahead of us of the Bill on Amendments of the Law on Higher Education and Ministers, I will immediately say that the JS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day, because by adopting this law, students who have entered, practically, students who have enrolled studies from 1998 to 2005, the deadline for completion of the study, and these studies should have been completed, so until 30 September this year. What is important is to say once again, since you have now said that this applies to both students of master's studies and PhDs, as well as important information for the patients, as last year, will be recommended by the Ministry to the colleges. I have no doubt that there is a good will in colleges just technical conditions to be created. Minister, we met with this topic in 2006. So, with the introduction of the Bologna Declaration, the way of schooling was changed, and the academics, students of the old were given time to finish their studies by 2011, i.e. school in 2012, right. This deadline has been extended several times, first until 2014, then the next 2016 and 2018, to extend that deadline by another year to 30 September of this year. I have to say that the exact data of how many of these old students there really aren't valid, because colleges don't have the exact data, so they're going with some number between 10 and 12 grand. But I'm saying, you don't know exactly, because colleges haven't worked either, let's say, an analysis of how many students there are. So it's about students who enrolled in studies between 1998 and 2005. Here I don't need to use some, to say difficult terms, bad qualifications for these people, because I have to tell the ministers that there are already family people among them who started a family, they have achieved as parents, but the important thing is that there are people who are successful in their business that work, that they have practically successful companies that hire a large number of people, but they haven't given up their studies and get their diplomas, and there are also people with disabilities who couldn't finish their studies due to natural illness, so they just haven't given up their diplomas either. to finish their studies and get their diplomas. The general requirement of all of these students to extend their deadline for completion of studies, but to complete these studies according to the old system as they have begun. In practice, their argument is that at the time they enrolled studies, so between 1998 and 2005, these studies were practically enrolled under the University Law, which in no way limited the time distance when they were due to complete those studies. Unhidden, Minister, should we say, you, your co-workers from the Ministry, we from the Assembly Committee, but also a large part of my colleagues here, we've received a large number of e-mails, messages, we've had personal contacts and we've generally heard the demands of all those people in which direction they should go, according to them, regarding these issues. Of course, Serbia, I think Ministers, there is no reason in any case to give up such a large number of people who are on the verge of getting a degree and I am sure a large number of them will in one part in the areas for which school is given very good results. I have to say, these people we talked to, between them and those who have high averages, over 9, over 9.5, have exams or two by the end of school. What I said earlier, I'm sure I'll give my professions good results. I'm saying all of this, Minister, if we know that there are about 10% of high-school people in Serbia right now, we're looking for a European average that's about 25%, but I have to remind you that, say, one Israel has 35% high-schooled, and let's say that there are 60% highly educated people in Russia. Also, when we talk about this problem, I think we should look at the example of the countries in the environment that have been through all of this in one part, and maybe we can apply that example to us in some parts. I also think there should be good synergy, Minister, when we talk about this subject, between all of us, to solve this problem the best way. When I say good synergy between all of us, I mean, although there are difficulties, technical difficulties in colleges, many exams that are not now accredited, but I'm sure there's a good will in college, at universities to solve this issue. I'll just say one good example here, the Faculty of Economics in Nis. So they solved this problem the following way and I'm going to say as a good example of what they did, they sent letters to all the students' addresses. Simply, about 135 students appeared, and in 10 months 28 of them completed studies of the 135. But they organized lectures on weekends, Saturdays and Sundays, so that once again teachers and teachers with students pass the material. They had deadlines every month and what's important, those heavy exams could have been taken out of pieces. On the other hand, their teachers were constantly, let me say, there at hand that they could have consultations with them. I think this example is very good. Twenty-seven students completed their studies in 10 months, and on the other hand, a large part of them remained only a test or two. Minister, there's one more thing that's important here, which may be one of the key things. People at the Faculty of Economics sent their memos to the address of students, their parents when they started studying. Although many may not have thought of studying, parents have put extra pressure on these people, and that is why they have had good results. I think that's an example of the other colleges. I say again, surely that goodwill exists only technically, it should be arranged between the ministry and the university. Finally, to say that the JS parliamentary group, as I said at the outset, will support this proposal for a law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60841	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I've seen that you haven't spent a lot of words explaining this law. I have to say, to some extent, I understand you back and forth for years, here we are now in a position to extend the deadline for the completion of the studies to students who had enrolled until 2005. I am pleased that you have a good will, as well as our Committee on Education and Science, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a good will to help students also try to complete basic, master's and doctoral studies in the next two years, namely to defend doctoral dissertation. I say this to try, because from time to time we often encounter the same arguments and of course there is a good will, but it should be fair to say that this, as I would say, initiative, this good will requires an answer and the other side. So we should finally have the students that are involved, to realize that this is a call, that the call is answered positively, that the hand of co-operation is provided and that they should complete their studies in the next two years. It is not necessary to overlook the fact that the system of higher education since 2005, by adopting the Law on Higher Education and later, entered into a new process when we became part of the European high education space and, accordingly, when certain changes were needed within the system and accreditation of student programmes and all that goes with it. So that these students don't stay somewhere between or outside the system, by amending this Law on Higher Education, we're giving them the opportunity to complete those studies again. That's good. Also, it would be good to know what number of students it is, because we bid a few years ago with a number of 20,000, well out of 12,000, it seems to me that someone on the board is a note 4,000. It would be interesting to see what number of students it is, because we don't have those numbers, however no offense, these are the figures used by, as you would say, those who sign this initiative, and we don't know exactly. Yesterday I mentioned it on the Committee, talked to the Dean of my university, and asked if he had any information on the number of students he talks about and who are covered by these amendments to the Law on Higher Education, he said there are up to 30 of them. I told the board, and I'm saying it now publicly here, that I think that in addition to what the government and the Ministry are doing, which is an invitation to Jahji, an invitation to these students to try to finish their studies at different levels for the next two years, and that it would be good for the higher education institutions themselves to carry out one analysis of their own documentation and to determine which number of students they are talking about and to call them, although some may not, but to invite them and to let them know that the university cares about them and that they could, along with them, find a way to finish the studies, if they want to. This factor if they want nobody to mention it, and he's very present, because if the state has been extending the deadline for 10 years then it would be fair to say whether some students want to complete those studies. Of course, no one's going to publicly say they don't want to, but we do have one situation to extend the deadlines, and yet the obligations don't come true. We need to understand that if we want an efficient system of higher education, if we want to have competent personnel, that means one learning. Learning again leads to one end of the process. It seems to me that it has offended the opinion in our education system, at the beginning of the application of Bologna or the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, by a number of students it has created the thinking that it is enough to come to college, be part of the system and get a degree. The learning process is poorly mentioned or not mentioned. We initially built a good building, but it proved too ambitious, without real, in order to say real justification, we made a roof first, and the foundations weren't set, and then we later made these adjustments. If we want to have quality higher education and really respond to the demands of higher education in the world, that is, to be part of these standards of higher education in the world, then we will have to make changes. It is good that in the strategy that is being prepared for 2020/2020 you will process this subject. I mean, between all high-school actors, there's really got to be a consensus on what we want. If we are really going to be part of the European high education space, then it is understood that in some years we have to raise this magical border of 48 points necessary for enrolment, but that means the responsible question – whether colleges have really implemented reforms of their curricula and programmes, whether the way students are examined is adequate to that system, in what way, and similar, whether students participate in the educational process and to what extent, whether they are really part of the process or whether they are persons who, as I would say, stop looking at what is happening. I think it's a good idea for them to accept this initiative and I think it's a good thing that these students are given a deadline and I'd like them to finish those studies. As for us and the SPS, they can say that they would really like to finish their studies because this means that there will be an increase in both the number and percentage of those people with higher education who have acquired the statutes of citizens of the Republic of Serbia with higher education or that they have completed master's or doctoral studies. I think that now this deadline is also quite adequate and that we should finally expect their reaction now, that this call be accepted and that they complete the studies. We will, in any case, support this proposal from the government in the voting day, because we think it is useful for higher education, useful for these people and simply take that next step. I'm glad you mentioned that you're going to give this recommendation to the sick because they deserve to be taken care of by the state, after all, if you're taking care of one, it's not logical that you don't take care of others. We need to within the higher education system really make the system completely. The system exists, but that doesn't mean that, as I would say, it's fully effective, there must be some changes. I'm glad that the teacher's register is being made so that all these data of electronic character that will contribute to us knowing exactly what we have that everyone has, if I may say, an identification number, from the moment they enter the system to the moment they come out, that it's not only for students, but also for teachers, because their work should be monitored. We simply need to do everything to make our system of higher education as high-quality as possible, because higher education is a reflection, as I would say, of the condition of future development of societies and we need competent personnel for Serbia, the future for which we all strive, and that is why I am glad to say that we will support this law and give people the opportunity to complete basic, master's studies and doctoral studies and be part of it, to say to the High System of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60843	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. The word has a proposing representative, Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education, science and technological development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60844	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Honorable colleague Obradovic, you are right and I will give one piece of information that I have told the Committee on Education, we simply because of the reduction in the number of employees and the Law on Employment are quite decimated in the Ministry and we are missing 90 people by the maximum number, and that is not little. In the meantime, we have formed even a few new sectors in the existing environment, such as dual studies, we have to even separate preschool because it becomes a much more serious category, for the digital needs of education and science. It's a really big deal, and there's not a lot of people to do. What will be quick here, is, information may also be related to changes to other system laws that require trustees when we talk about protecting data from public importance, which is to introduce this unique educational number. But we're going to have this unique information system in the education where we've already done research science bases, so that we can run the Science Fund and do what we're already doing. So, with few people, we were able to design it, and then the registers of all the people in the education system, from preschool, basic, middle, high and so on, employees, because they're constantly bidding with some numbers. You know, until we introduced new models, the Science Fund and the Science and Research Act, we had data that we had 12, 15, 18 thousand people dealing with science, so it was all licensed. Since the faculty departments have students as well as students, and in the draft, the student editor, that there are departments for student issues, we will assign them and ask them to join us and form bases for students who are studying on foreign programs, based on basic, master and doctoral studies. To be exact objects in these bases and to be means some deadlines so that we can deal with this structure more nicely now. So if I could choose yes or no, I'm mostly in favour of giving someone a chance. It is like a folk's parable, the Dark Fairy, if you take it, you will repent, if you do not take it, you will regret it. So I personally think it's better to give them a chance, but if we talk about the quality of education at all levels, then I agree with you, colleague Obradovic. The other side has to make a serious step, so not learning is the reason if a man is sick, if he's formed a family, if he's hired, but the whiskey law we have both work and study and a series of other models, we have a set of requalifications, and now there's a question about that number of students, and you know that we started from 12 to six, and at four or three and a half, we don't even know exactly what the professions are. And we have some professions in the deficit, so we can hurry up and stimulate. I hope that we have those bases relatively fast by spring, because we really need to get the entire education system into it, and there are children at all levels of education and employment. I can't take responsibility until now because we didn't have the resources for that story, and we'll be able to do it soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60845	Thank you. The word has the president of the PS-NSS-US parliamentary group, MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60846	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I spoke about this subject at the previous session, although it wasn't very much part of the agenda, but since it was a set of laws relating to education, wanting to determine in time the path for some future period. It's already been said a lot about how to extend the study deadline when it comes to students who are enrolled in the old system, and also about students who are first enrolled in this so-called. The Bologna system, which also has problems. Of course, we haven't changed our mind and attitude on this issue because there was no appropriate argument that would convince us that any reason for these people not to go out and that they weren't allowed to complete the studies they started. I agree in the mainly part with what my esteemed colleagues have been saying and I would not like to repeat what has already been said, but indeed Serbia is not a rich country to deprive any dinar invested in education, a dinar spent on the budget or on the home budget and not to be valorised by a diploma that will certainly have a purpose to improve someone's work and employment in the workplace, in the end of the day, if nothing else, at least the degree of education will be raised to a higher level, and that is what our common goal is. I fully understand the position of your and the Ministry in the position that it should build something, which I personally think has not been given a good foundation when it started, because from the Socialist movement and I believe most colleagues were not in a position to speak when a new system of study was introduced to decide, to decide at all about setting any deadlines for completing studies for students enrolled in the old one. Personally I think that in such a situation, if we had the opportunity then, we would certainly not have supported any limitation of the study deadline, because simply those people had entered universities in another existing legislative system and the question was seriously raised - was there when these laws were passed something that was not in accordance with the Constitution, if nothing else but I think that there were contrary to many other laws? However, some congregations before us have done so and have brought us into a situation that, if I am not mistaken, this is the third time that this congregation congregational congregation has discussed this subject. The extension you've suggested for two years we'll support it. We believe that you are more competent than we are that you can make an adequate assessment and how stimulating it will be for those who are studying in the old age to really make an additional effort and those studies within some time frame to be completed. I think it would be very good to ask the university and, as soon as possible, a complete record, because no one but the university has a record of enrolled students, if I'm not mistaken, and to prepare a good analysis for us, we don't have to wait two years, nor will the next call have to wait, or there would be a reason to wait two years, to come back into the chat room to decide something properly. Now it is necessary to prepare the field with accurate data as to how many students were in 2016 by the old system, so how many students were in the old system last year that didn't finish, so let's see what that will do in the next year, let's say, as some passing time on half of this journey that happens in colleges so that it can be decided. By the way, I'm personally the one who doesn't have to be right on the pedagogical side, I'm not your profession, and I can afford it, but if we were to ask ourselves, this would probably look like it would extend that study period to an unlimited period of time. Of course, at this point we can do what we do. For this reason, in this segment we support you maximumly, and you know, as long as there's going to be one good old household principle, and as long as we have in the Ministry of People who know what pedagoggy is and how to talk to preschoolers, primarys, high school students and students, and how they can be stimulated, then we can trust these decisions you're proposing. In fact, when it comes to students who have signed up according to the Bologna principle among the first, what I have been able to track, not just from the e-mails of many and many contacts by these students who are now in trouble, but from what the people of the profession have analyzed, I am giving myself the right to conclude that these people who started and were experimental rabbits with the first generations of Bologna have come into a really very invisible position not by their own will. The fact that there is not a single proposal to implement the way of the re-enquirement system or to solve this problem, I think it is something that should also be the subject of recruiting them as well as the Ministry. To legally define this, I understand your good will, the good will of the college that we can count on, but goodwill is not an obligation at all times. We fully support that you send a recommendation to the colleges to allow them to continue their studies, but I think the next period must also be dedicated to how and here to find the right solution that will satisfy all the problems that have arisen. I'd really like to point out a few of the problems that I've seen in all of this, which is that, firstly, these people would be in a situation where instead of one exam that's left for them to get some new twelve exams or, in the meantime, programs have changed in re-entry, they'd be huge costs of equivalence and I don't think even colleges know how to do it themselves. I've already mentioned a huge programming difference. And the question is, do colleges have a capacity at all such that if all these students had to re-enlist again, as they say, would it be the capacity to come to school and listen to lectures, be at the exercises, even if the living situation allowed them, and many of them are already in a working relationship? The cancellation of points that have been achieved on pre-examination obligations, instead of being preserved in some way, is simply an additional problem, even what I don't like, I really don't like the Bologna study system at all, and I may have an excessive aversion to it, and that system of points is a bit of a strange story, maybe we who ended up in the old one, it's hard to understand from you who are directly in matter today, but the basic principle of Bologna is that what gets points and positions can no longer be lost. These old bolognas of ours, if I've got it right because of all these changes, the merger of exams, the changes in the software scheme itself, the merger of certain exams, the introduction of new exams, they've come into a situation to lose those points. So these are all very complex and complex problems. We will hopefully, during this week when the old students are at stake by adopting the proposal that you made about it. I hope that, as I say, for this year too, we will solve the problem of those who are studying according to the Bologna system, and were among the first students to write it on the basis of the college's recommendation and will, and I think we should prepare the ground to finally be defined by both laws. I ask you to look at the whole situation from that angle, considering all the other elements that are important. I must point out once again, people are not statistics, people are part of Serbia, part of the Serbian soul, part of our system, part of education, part of our responsibility to create conditions for them to finish their studies in Serbia. At least it's the topic of today's debate. For this reason, we will support a proposal submitted by the ministry by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, hoping that this will definitely be resolved in some future period. The nicest thing would be that everyone would end up in this deadline of studies that they didn't finish. I'm not too much of an optimist about this whole thing, but I'm looking for a permanent solution, and after these two years, I think it might be based on these guidelines that I mentioned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60847	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has been made by the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP of the People's Republic of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so that someone doesn't think of saying that we Serbian radicals are talking about current topics because it's popular and in the way it's popular, I will first read the point of the 43rd SRS programme, which refers to the right to education. The right to education is the right for citizens to get education, start from basic to highest and thus ensure full development of their personality, and also contribute to raising the general level of the state community they belong to. The Serbian Radical Party would guarantee the right to education with constitutional norms under which citizens would have the right and the possibility to acquire knowledge and expertise at all levels of education in all types of schools and other educational institutions under the same conditions. We'll review the dual education system. We will not close schools in villages, regardless of the number of children who are going to school. This is a contribution to the development of the Serbian village. Primary and secondary education must be free of charge and mandatory for all students. State universities must be available to all under equal conditions, and graduate high school students must be allowed to enrol in college without admission exams, based on the proclivity and results achieved during school. Regular study at state universities must be free of charge until the final stages of academic calling. Schooling must be available to all under the same conditions. Serbian radicals are pushing for the abolition of schooling in the Bologna system, which has proved to be unsuccessful and inefficient. By coming to power, we will re-implement traditional education at all levels, abolish VAT on textbooks, books and teaching tools. Serbian radicals will also implement a detailed plan to reorganise the entire network of primary and secondary schools and form a commission that will examine the validity of university diplomas and master's and doctoral dissertations of all state officials suspected of illegally reaching professional titles. I read this to see that all that we've talked about in the last few days on the subject of education is just what the SRS program is. Of course, from case to case. We speak what is current and defend the right to education for all. When it comes to these so-called. old students, you are Ministers Sarcevic on August 12, 2019, which was recently said that the old students will not get another chance to end their colleges according to the programme under which they entered them before the official introduction of Bologna in 2005. You said – it has to be cut once already, I've already done them a favor twice, you've done them a favor personally, and you've raised the question of the extension of the deadline, there's no way I'm gonna do it now, not because I'm a jinx man, but there's just no more conditions to study in the old programs, because there's no more professors who are going to hand it over and question them. So, Minister Sarčević, if what you said was true on August 12th, then we are now wondering when in less than a month, conditions were created that you then claimed were gone or there were conditions, but you didn't want to do something about it, since you've already done it twice, you say, did a favor to those people? Then they're your so-called. The old students asked for reception with the President of the Republic, and the president said at a conference that a solution would be found for their problems, and then you completely forgot what you said and we are today discussing a bill that is not good, because it does not solve the problem essentially and permanently. We Serbian Radicals on August 23rd, so after this statement of yours, in 2019 we issued a statement where we wrote: The SRS requires the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allow all students who want to continue their studies according to the programme under which they started them. Universitys are obliged to provide all suitable conditions for continuing studies in the old programs, regardless of when they started studies. The student has the right to study for the rest of his life under the conditions under which he went to college and no one is allowed to deny it. The ministry and universities have no right to enter the reasons for the length of study, because it is the inalienable right of every citizen. Students who are not in regular studies pay for their schooling and must be allowed to do so. The Serbian Radical Party warns the competent ministry and the government of Article 71. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees everyone the right to education and stipulates that all citizens have equal access to higher education. The choice of college and the length of study is a personal matter for each individual. Of course, to the media, since you said there was no way that we would be discussing it, this statement of ours was not important, as otherwise our statements are not being made public, and here we are, for the sake of the public now to remind, Serbian radicals are responding to all current situations in the state, in society, but the media are our announcement... of the eight daily newspapers, only two short sentences were inserted in the middle of a text, as – radicals support old students. Now a little bit wider to explain from this statement, because now's the time to talk about this in more detail. All the MPs were addressed by these so-called so-called so-called messengers. Old students. They wrote us e-mails, and I answered everyone on behalf of the SRS. Maybe I left someone out. If I did, here's an apology. We also received e-mails from students studying in the Bologna system. We want to draw attention to you, we have submitted amendments, and it would really be good to adopt them, all the colleagues who spoke, and I suppose you have mentioned, that in the end of September the National Assembly has had the same trouble - or the points of the "Bologna" debated, or the extension of the deadline to the old students, and there is no way that the problem can be solved once and for all. And that's how he has to get rid of it. If you do not accept our amendments and if we do not resolve this problem permanently, Minister, another minister will have to come before the National Assembly in two years with the same proposal. Because there is no one who is allowed to allow himself, there is no authority that must allow himself to deny anyone the right to education. In these e-mails that we received from these students, we were able to read very shocking stories that didn't end early colleges, from death cases in the family, to illness, to lack of visibility, to very difficult material conditions that made them have to and to work, to many beautiful events, to form families, to have children, and then simply focus on that second part of their lives, and, well, the time has come, they want to finish their studies. We have to make it possible for them as a state. Among other things, why did I read part of the SRS programme relating to education? Just because we're the ones who told you exactly what the point is. To respect what I have just read and what we are constantly saying, that they do not need reception exams, or prom exams, that through these exams they should not be demeaning the years of learning that preceded these exams, and these exams cannot even be a criterion of the real and real knowledge of that student, or future student. We say that everyone must be allowed to enter the university under the same conditions and as long as he is a regular student, to the highest academic knowledge, must be educated on the cost of the state, or on the budget, as popularly said. Others who haven't finished their first year can study for as long as they want. You, or universities, colleges, determine the amount of tuition and we don't talk about it here. We're not talking about whether the tuition is small or large, whether it can be paid in wars or not, we're talking about anyone who's enrolled in a college under a particular programme having to be allowed to finish under that same program. Of course, I repeat, tuition has to pay because it's not a regular student. If there are three thousand, four thousand, ten thousand, it's absolutely irrelevant. There could be one thousand and a hundred and ten and only one. No single Serbian citizen should be denied the possibility of completing college if he wants to finish it. I'm sorry you said you didn't have technical opportunities, but, fortunately, in ten days you managed to overcome all of that, those technical conditions. We have conditions, but let's talk about it for a while. We, I don't know how long it's been going on, ten, fifteen years ago, every time we've told the ministers -- let's solve this problem permanently. Why should we talk every year or every other year on the same subject, and the outcome is always the same - changing the law, extending the deadline. Our proposal, expressed through the amendments, is that this deadline is not limited, but literally that everyone can complete the studies as long as he wants. Which is someone's motive to study longer, long, too long, what's for whom for a long time, it's his personal matter. We heard here from some colleagues who said that some of these people may never work in the profession with that college degree they want to get, have their own already private jobs, do something else, etc. And now, we need to ask ourselves - what exactly does he want to finish college? Well, there it is. You know, someone can study from a hobby. There's no need for her to really finish college, study from a hobby, so, when she catches time, prepares her exam and goes to class, and then it takes a lot of years, simply, a man wants to have a college degree in his life. And now what would we or you or anyone rightfully deny anyone and that hobby of his that he pays nicely in any way? We really, not only do we want because of these students who are now talking to us, to all of us, not just because of these not only do I know how many thousands of such students are currently, we want to do it because of them and because of these bolognas, which I'm also going to say a few sentences about, we want the system problem to be solved. And I don't see any colleagues who will vote for this bill, I've never heard a single remark in the sense that something is objecting to these students or to you for coming with this bill. So there's a will to vote for this proposal to be a deadline for the study team so-called. It extends to the old students for two years. We're just suggesting something that will simplify both their lives and the lives of the universities and the government and the National Assembly, something that will keep them from discussing the same thing again. Because in two years, when this law comes on the agenda, we'll be telling the same story again. Again you or some other minister will say that he can't do it anymore, enough and don't, please, and please, colleagues who have spoken in this sense here, or maybe I misunderstood, don't count those people. I repeat, one or a hundred one or ten thousand one, all Serbian citizens have the same rights and those rights must be granted to them. When it comes to these students who are studying by the so-called. The Bologna study system, they are already damaged by the fact that they are studying under this nakaradic system. And you yourself here the other day, Minister, said that it was a child who was born so it must rock, and we told you then, and now we say - not everything has to rock, the government is working here in the interest of the citizens and that what the previous government had born, if not good, has to change. But this is a line of less resistance, everything that's been found you say, I don't mean you personally, but this current government, nothing, we'll, when there's a problem, we'll say that these others are guilty, they've introduced it, and why we haven't changed, so, well, we respect the legal order. They're stories for little kids. The legal order is respected if the rights of all citizens of Serbia are respected, if the Constitution is respected and the government works in the interests of both the state and every citizen living in the state of Serbia. So, “bolons, ” so - called “bolons, ” so - called“ bolognas. ” I repeat, damaged by the fact that they're studying in this nakarad system and we've also had here on several occasions that they come out, strike, protest, and then here the law changes again. Now more, they're getting bigger, the number of points down, it's very hard to figure out what's going on in detail, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that their problem can now be solved without amending the law. They're asking, Minister, and we SRS MPs are asking you to refer that recommendation to universities and colleges, so that these people don't go back through that requisition, as they're threatened. Do you know what kind of situation we have? We have situations where a man only has one more exam to pass and to finish college, possibly graduate if the university has a degree. Now, since it's been a while, he's got to re-enlist and, instead of that one exam, of course, he has to pay a new scholarship, new exams, etc., he gets about 12 new exams. With these 12 new exams, he's actually completely moving on to another profession and so can the day of judgment. That's why we ask you, Minister Sarčević, to be responsible, to show that you are worthy of these functions, to accept all amendments to the SRS or at least one key that covers everything we've said and to solve the problem so-called. The old students by abolishing that two-year-old deadline for which these students have to finish college. It has to be without a deadline. When we talked at one of the judges' sessions, so we talked about how you chose for judges some people who studied for 10, 12 years, then you had an excuse from the authorities that they had this or that reason, so they studied longer, etc., and now that this is the case, then you don't have the same understanding. Of course, anyone who hires someone will take care of it and how much the average is in the course of the study and how many years he studied and why he studied so much or so, but it's not our topic and it's every single person's business. I repeat, we ask you, Minister, to accept the amendments to the SRS, that the deadline for the completion of the study be completely abolished and that as the Ministry of Education, you make a recommendation for these patients and that they, too, in a certain way, extend that deadline and that everyone can study the one he chose. They, I repeat, who do this regularly, I end up, my colleague Milicevic, doing this more sentence, working on the cost of the budget, and those who do it and study longer, whether in Bologna or old so-called. The system, they study their cost, let them be lucky, as much as they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60849	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been authorised by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Muamer Bačevac. Here you go, Comrade Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60850	I would like to say that you have properly balanced and rightly solved this problem that our students who have failed to complete, because of various problems, personal or any other nature, their studies. In front of us is a good, well balanced, good, realistic proposal to give them the opportunity and chance to complete their studies in the way they started their education in two years. I think every time, and we've been looking at a similar subject for the third time and we're giving a similar solution, we're reducing the number of such students. I think there's a lot less than certain figures represent and try to play. I think it's very important that we set a deadline for these students, both now and every other time and every other time. I don't think that study can be, can't be studied all my life, but you have to learn your whole life, and I think that limiting the period is certainly pedagogical, motivated, and that, although it may be more difficult for the government, for MPs, we show in this way a sincere desire that these people really start colleges as soon and in the right way, because the study must not be a hobby, the study must be a limited period to which knowledge and skills are most effective that will help people to perform those professions that they have defined. In that sense, we need to uphold this law. This proposal will, of course, appreciate that, our sincere desire to increase the number of highly educated people in our country, to reach a European level of 25%. We're halfway through today and being a society of educated people. We in the Social Democratic Party have a document called "The State of Education", in which we have given basic guidelines in which we want to reform our education and it seems to me that this government is really on track and that what we have drawn as social Democrats is well achieved and that we are making good progress on that path. We believe that the prerequisite for true and equal opportunities to combat poverty and achieve social democratic ideas, education, is the only way, that a good education ticket for healthy and normal life and family values and the formation of individuals. The social democratic view of the world has always rested on understanding education in the function of creating free, solid people who enjoy equal opportunities in society, and that's what we want. We want education to be a fundamental human right, and we do this policy every day. The human right to education, of course, must not only end in young people, but can also be made possible in adulthood. Whoever didn't get a proper education in youth deserves equal chances. In that sense, we want to support this law and we're going to vote for it and we really want to give it a fair chance for people to start colleges. In particular, this proposal is correct for those who still have a few exams left, and I believe that the vast majority of them are in that status and I think it will succeed for these proposed two years to bring their studies to an end and to really participate in the development and progress of our common state, because also studying, lifelong study, which is mentioned as a possibility, would be bad, not only for colleges, but also for those people themselves. With the acquisition of a student degree, they gain confidence that they have skipped an extremely important step, that they have entered into the ranks of academics who can handle, can be leaders or gain knowledge and skills that will really enable them to carry out the plotted plans in their companies, their jobs and the specifics they stand for. The Social Democratic Party will therefore support this law, as well as the government's insistence to extend the availability of quality education, to open up a system of education, to be as open as possible, to work and raise the quality of education. We try to increase gross national income, extract from gross national income and make it bigger for education and science. We think that this government is working very hard on this plan, by stabilising the economic situation in the country itself, creating conditions for better and increased investment in science and education. Therefore, as someone who is particularly interested in raising the knowledge of workers, in solidarity and democracy and in developing this society, we will warmly support this law in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60851	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, students who entered the studies by 10 September 2005 also addressed this autumn to the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia asking to meet their need to get some extra time to finish their education, extra time in the form of two school years, and the proposal sent by the competent ministry represents a positive reaction to this application. So, on behalf of the Government, the ministry has submitted a proposal that represents a kind of solution and the SNS, our MPs will help to implement this solution. The students, ladies and gentlemen, need to finish their studies and we have talked about it many times in this room, first of all, because of ourselves, because of their families, because of their life plans and obligations, and there is no reason why it should not end in a successful way, and when it comes to those who have enrolled their studies by 2005, but also those who are in master's studies, or in doctoral studies. It's just enough to look back on their own without any of the MPs, politicians, whoever you want, suggesting anything. They see best how many others have been successful on that plan, and that is the clearest indication that they can do it themselves. So in Serbia there certainly is room for everyone, in Serbia today there is a significantly more good space for a man, a young man, to build a perspective for himself. Serbia today, among other things, can be praised by the fact that it encourages not only young people in their efforts to provide for the future, by finding a job with success, not only by further stimulating all possible ways, and by foreign investors, but also by domestic employers, to hire people. Not only is it improving business opportunities, and it is said by different ones, world lists, which rank us in this sense, and these famous sources, such as the Financial Times, say how far more successful Serbia is in this respect today than it has ever been before. Serbia today is sincerely looking out for its citizens, and the example is, Serbia today, right on the day of today, has the resources because it is seriously, responsibly and thoroughly working to provide additional funds for public sector incomes to increase further. Today, news in Serbia is that in two months from today, incomes will be significantly increased in various actions. I'll read you just a few, a 15% increase is planned for nurses, 10% for culture, 9% for police, military, social sector, teachers all, for judges, as well as for many others. Experts say – each of these increases and each gesture of this type automatically withdraws and, as a kind of positive reaction and pay increases in the private sector. Serbia, therefore, has this kind of reality, is about it is one of the good indicators for young people to deal with their future, they should urgently work on that, as much as tomorrow, compete on the labour market, if they are not already. There are many who are, but those who do not know, there is much more positive space for them today in Serbia, a good space that can be used in any case, of course thanks to the results we provided, thanks to the successful policy of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the government of Serbia supported by the SNS, and that there is a clear understanding of how it is in Serbia today, and thanks to who. One of the indicators is the fact that the students we're talking about today have turned to these exact addresses. So, to those people who are the most responsible for this good space and perspective that we have in Serbia today, unlike the times in which this country was burned and burned by people who, above all, took care of themselves, their own pocket, their own companies, their own millions, and you will find among them and those who took care of the values that are measured by hundreds of millions, of course, of the euro. It is a drastic difference when you treat the state in this way, when you treat her future and the young, or when you treat the same needs honestly, seriously, but with the result you can make, treat both Serbia and the people, especially young people. One of the indicators that this is exactly the way it is and that Serbia today is drastically different from the world. One of the evidence comes from the world just these days has officially declared Serbia one of the most attractive areas, at the planetary level, for the development of innovation and start-up of companies. Such a conclusion is the study of Startap Genom, which is doing this type of research at the world level, and they have singled out Serbia. The world today says – in Serbia, that there are much better ways and better solutions to start business than in many countries of the world, in the environment especially, but with the world we compete in this respect. That's what these young people need to know and that there will certainly be plenty of extra space for the future to be built here. There should be no doubt as long as Alexander Vukic, SNS, is cared for in Serbia. It is one message that we as members of that party and its MPs want to announce today. Of course, for this kind of thing it takes seriousness, it takes work, and it involves absolutely all the players in society. The issue of seriousness and adequate relations also concerns society's relations with young people, society with students, but also relations that students themselves show. There's no ladies and gentlemen of any reason not to file every paper you need, so you can finish your studies and pass your exams. Many of you are years who have not used for studies, used to solve other important life issues, such as accumulated family problems or to start their family or to take care of their own existence or their families, to work if necessary. That's all the reasons every man will understand. However, it is necessary to show the seriousness and time foreseen for studies to be used primarily for this, not for those things that certainly cannot be considered useful time spent and for something that helps in any way, in any way to man, family, and society at least. I'm saying this because it's not impossible for young people to be brutally abused in Serbia by politics and failed politicians today, and I'm saying this because right now, as we and this law are discussing, we have this situation at the dictatorship. Four days ago, a group of political activists took over the cabinet building. They fell in there. The first was announced with the intention of performing some performance, politically of course, which turned literally into an usurpation of buildings and preventing employees from even entering the building and doing their job at all. That, ladies and gentlemen, has absolutely nothing to do with student issues, needs, any student requests or anything student in which you want or do not want, context. It's about pure politics, daily politics, of course, very unsuccessful as has been clearly seen so far on several occasions, but I'm saying this because nobody in Serbia should have the slightest dilemma of what it is and of course it's not good. It's about the abuse of people by those who have shown that they are more than willing to use other people, abuse their own needs and their own selfish interests. It's about the former regime, gathered today around the so-called. The Alliance for Serbia, or what they otherwise call the Gilas movement "one out of five million", I think that's his official name. So, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradović, Boris Tadic, DS and all of its subvariants you've heard of, which you haven't heard of, are these days organising an action to take over the recession, preventing people who are hired to take care of Belgrade University to do their job and have political requirements, of course. Everything they do, work with, if anyone hasn't heard, they may smile, with a demand to make personal changes in the Serbian government. So they demand to be removed, as things are now, one minister, although these demands are constantly changing and the question is, what will it all come to? It is, therefore, a purely political activity with purely political demands and has nothing to do with student needs. There were stories about whether it was about requirements to provide better conditions for study, whether it was about requirements to provide additional space for work, whether it was about requirements to provide more quality accommodation, literature, or whatever you could think of. If it were that kind of requirement, then you'd be talking about everything that these people don't want to talk about. For example, today provides infrastructure for higher education institutions, that at the level of Belgrade University a feasibility study for this type of infrastructure has already been brought to an end and that exceptional results, valuable results and for the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, and for the FON, which is already active, which is already being done by the Faculty of Mathematics. Regarding this issue, to provide additional space for both the Faculty of Civil Engineering and the Faculty of Architecture, to provide new accommodation facilities for students in New Belgrade. It seems to me, you ministers know exact numbers, 3500 is the number of beds expected, so many squares. So, Nis, Electronic College, 7,000 squares, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, all of these are things that are in Serbia today reality and which are directly related to working conditions. As far as working conditions are concerned, and nothing to do with any student, these are political demands. We want this minister, we don't want that minister, how are we gonna do that? By saying, we are student representatives and we are stopping life at Belgrade University. We, 15 or 20 of us. Fifteen or 20, ladies and gentlemen, people who themselves declare themselves representatives of the Gilas movement, "one out of five million". There is, of course, nothing controversial, it is about people who are engaged in this political movement working directly for that political option. They don't hide it, on the contrary, these days they say they care very much about their names being heard. They want to marry with glory as the first fighters of this movement and these activities. When you look at the people who locked themselves there, take up the Rectory Building and don't let people in and do their jobs, they really are, it's nothing controversial, the representatives of the "one of five million" movement, as presented by Moma Kovacevic, Miodrag Simovic, you can really see that they are not hiding, they spoke at their political gatherings. The question is, who's going to figure out how that sounded and how good that was? Of course, the word was exclusively political messages, famous and already announced attacks against Aleksandra Vukic and SNS, but at these protests, where 200, 300 people are gathered today, precisely because they are being organised by Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and therefore no one has any special interest in these gatherings anymore, but in these places these people have also announced, their political action is the intrusion and takeover of the Dictionary. They said it months ago and said it's what we're going to do in September. So, a pure policy that's not worth pretending about, and you don't have to pretend naive, that we don't know what it's about. They announced it on those occasions. Mile Jovanovic, a kind of spokesman, but of course, people who are directly partyed because of those people who wonder whether this name or not has anything to do with Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, and clearly it does, because they are the organizers of the protest. Here's some data. One of these organizers, Martin Bezinarevic, by their people, is identified as a man who is a political journalist. A journalist in the section of a daily list, so that's how much this activity has or doesn't have to do with any policy. Is it working today I don't know, but they said it themselves, I guess they're bragging. Valentina Rekovic, after entering the RTS and many of these people also took part in it, according to the people of Nova Varoshi, was promoted to a DS member, probably due to their own merits. The organizer, Srdjan Markovic, you have probably heard of him, is also a man who is a party activist, a longtime member of the DS, today probably officially a member of Gilas's new party, whether it is formalized or not, I don't know, but that's how it is, we as MPs had the opportunity to make sure before, I think, a month ago. The same people gathered in front of the National Assembly building to hold a press conference and on that occasion a journalist "Foneta" seemed to ask me questions – but why didn't you change the text, you repeated a statement that you as a party and even named the party as an SAA, you already gave today? These people I just read Srdjan Markovic and who were still there, Rekovic, looked at so confused, they probably didn't know why they got the same text for two press conferences. So, so much for the topic that people are talking about, and it is about party activists, once again, it's confirmed by those who are students. The example works, Markovic, whom I would say we are similar years, interestingly, if he is a student then he also refers to these measures that we need to vote on, to give extra space for studies. He's 30 and a couple of years old, too, 'cause I think we're about the age of two. In 2010, he was a political student, according to his colleagues at the time, usurping the place of students, while calling widely for his contacts in the DS, to his membership there. He said he personally represented Balša Bozovic, the president of the Democratic Youth that must be asked at the university, at a time when Serbia was lit and burned by a yellow company. They were then experiencing that all of this belongs to them, so that they have the right, like Srdjan Markovic, to hire the beatings of his colleagues at the time, to throw chairs at people who do not want to support his fine elections, to participate in this, and Zeljko Matic, the secretary of the Democratic Youth of Belgrade at the time, and of course to invite all of them to the Supreme Leader of the Democratic Youth, Balsa Bozovic. The initiative -- the Philosophy's defense -- that's when all these things were responded and spoken -- these are party people, not student representatives, party people of the DS then. The same people today are recognized by former initiative players - defending Philosophy as party people, today representatives of Dragan Gilas and this association. That it's about the abuse of young people doesn't have to be said too much, but I'll tell you a few things anyway. This is a picture of the Rectorate today. In this picture you see what? The tent. One of those tents that were installed by Gilas's association here in the park between the National Assembly and the presidency building. How did those protests go down, we were all wondering where that tent went? Here, today, that tent was brought by political activists into the Rectory. Of course, rudely violated the autonomy of the university and in an unacceptable way brought politics there. But not just politics, this is what the inside of that building looks like now. This is turned into a dorm room where you see chaos, garbage all over the place. The question arises, what is the interest of any student to make this look like the Rectorate? What does this have to do with the respect of institutions or their protection in any way? Or this, this could just be compared to a situation that exists at the Vinch dump, and these people made it out of the Dictionary. This is what it looks like right now while we're here talking, and they're openly boasting. This was photographed, this was announced to show how they sovereignly rule the building and how they control the situation. If they had been supported by students who had the same political attitudes, that was expected. For example, student Srdjan Milivojevic, former MP of the DS, today a proud member of the board, and from the recently and executive board of DS, here he is with this Markovic, probably from the time they both applied for a trip to Mars. For Markovic we know he is, we expect Milivojevic to be. A student, Zoran Lutovac, president of the DS, also came to support this unfulfilled traveler on Mars, Markovic. This is where you see them together. I couldn't swear, but I'd say they're in the company of one of the People's MPs of the Dvori movement. Also, the transfer between students, fifth or sixth in this session, Marinika Tepic, and she came to block the Rectorate and support students because it is of course a student story and because it has nothing to do with politics. If it occurred to you that someone who is the MP and vice president of Gilas' party has something to do with politics, then you're probably mistaken, they're all students. Just as the student and Bosko Obradovic, the right hand of Dragan Dilas, has come to express his solidarity, he says, as a Belgrade University student. What do the institutions say? Of course, everything you can say and it's serious and it has nothing to do with these people and this kind of treatment. A rectorial college of the University of Belgrade announced that his openness was abused and that the work was at stake, not only the 70 employees who were denied the right to do their job, but the entire university, hundreds of thousands of students and more than 5,000 teachers were at risk. So 15 or 20 political activists endanger hundreds of thousands of students and about 5,000 teachers. They spoke to the official representatives of the students, but the real representatives of the students. A student conference at the University of Serbia, so-called KONUS and condemned this act. The Independent Student Movement, which said that among other things, what they are now doing within the Recitorate Building, directly endangers both professors and students involved in international co-operation and mobility programmes that are being implemented these days. It would be interesting to hear some of these representatives of the former regime, what they mean by international co-operation and mobility. We've been here, not once, but 100 times, listening to DS representatives, their MPs, saying they're taking a terrible stand for this kind of program, how important is it, to hear why today, these very things threaten? The November parliament of the University of Belgrade, which said it was impossible to hold exams, lectures, consultations, file documents, to hold sessions, commissions, meetings, which contribute to improving conditions. So everything that should be normal, to be realized without any problems, so that November's life, above all, is possible, not only easier, but possibly at all. As a response to this kind of appeal, the application for people to reason, came to express their support and all the members of the Bastac clan, the Old Town, along with them, as those from Gilasov and Šolakov media, and different professors, listen now to this, among which architect Dragoljub Bakic and cartoonist Dusan Petričić, means great professors, Bakic and Dusan Petričić, cartoonist Branislav Trifunović, and Teodorović, who as much as he was a professor, are hardly able to pass, as a student. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the first time that a failed politician, that representatives of the former regime, have become used to taking care of themselves, abuse other people, and it's not the first time they've abused young people. These same young people, they were forced to chase, to RTS. The same young people, and not so young, if we're talking about this thing that wanted to travel to space, but never mind, people younger than them anyway, they were forced to take up the chase on the presidency building. The same people forced them to clash with the police, to shoot cops with bottles, to attack them with knives. They used these same people every time they did, at some point politically, when it was meant to cause conflict, accident, trouble, but over other people's backs to be. And never, in those situations, have they ever stood together with these people, who have been hoarse to violence, neither Dragan Djilas nor Vuk Jeremic, nor Bosko Obradovic. They could take their precious skin off in time. Because of that, the last thing I want to say to this occasion is to address, first of all, those people, who are re-abused and exploited by thieves from the former regime. Don't let them, these people who sent you to do these things in the dictatorship, to make this picture of the Belgrade University, they're only interested in one thing, to get as much of an accident as possible, if they can. They're interested in a conflict, they'd like the police to go in there now or there to be some power outages, water, but you know, absolutely none of this is gonna happen for sure. The last sentence, not because, unlike these Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, on the other hand, you have people who respect every man, who understand and the complexity of the situation you are in, because someone has abused you again, but also those people who know that peace and stability to Serbia are necessary, so in such a successful, peaceful and stable Serbia and you are to finish your studies and work well tomorrow and to live well with everyone else, and as far as the insatiable Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovica, they have a far-fetched house, that they run out of money should be the biggest problem in the world, but only they have Serbia with such ones never had anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60853	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Now the word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60854	Thank you, just a few more sentences, if you'll excuse me, in that same direction, this is a flagrant violation of university autonomy. I have not heard in any European country, not for decades, that anyone has allowed himself to do so. Usually the subject is being thrown into power by executives, and it is strictly true that the eyelash doesn't fall there, and this has been several times since the protests began that these political reasons entered several universities, it's not just the Rectorate, it's FPN, the Philosophy in Nis, Legal in Nis. So these are people who are totally breaking the rules that stand in the Law of Higher Education, and now this is something that violates absolute rights for the university to be spared this kind of thing. Someone who advocates democracy and so on, he should protect, but I really don't know an example across Europe, the original student organisation, means, elected regularly, parliament, not only of the Belgrade university, but of all the conferences of the university have made it clear that they disagree. This is indeed the terror of a small group of people who are absolutely involved in politics, not student issues, and I think that this has really gone beyond every measure of decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60855	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The right to comment has Dr. Orlic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60856	I completely agree, Mr. Minister, and it seems to me that during my presentation, I have stated, yes, it is, it is the most brutal possible abuse, and it is a violation of university autonomy, but to remind you, it is not the first time. When it comes to the specifics of these actors, but it's not the first time that you look at the whole history of engagement activities of all of the people who are behind this as organizers. I wanted to make another point that, if there is anything good in this situation, it may be an opportunity for us to understand clearly on this case what is offered by political organizers of this act, so Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, DS, all of these representatives and those who did not appear physically to be pretending to be students, but of course they participate. He looks at the fact that you have, like, 15 or 20 people who take the right to themselves besides usurping the university, besides bringing politics where there is no other than to be, but he gives himself the right to decide the fate of hundreds of thousands of others. This is the clearest possible indication of the concept of politics, the understanding of the relationship in society, the way these people function, which they have been politically organised and who have been harassed to do this, because they are the same model, only at the state level, understand it as the only correct and they are trying to do it, that they are 15, 20, so let it be 200 to decide the fate of hundreds of thousands of others, and even millions of others. That those who don't have, all together, not even a two-digit percentage of the vote vote should be everything and everyone in the country, that they need some cosmic force to deploy to be power. That they should have without having a voice to become ministers, that they should go out to the elections in the first place to handle public enterprises and local self-governments that speak openly, they do not hide it. That is, therefore, an indication of the attitude towards the state and the society of someone who is everything, absolutely everything is not a democracy, is not a civilized man and is not a man who cares about the society he wants to rule. It's a man, if you look at Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, any of them to choose, unfeelingly eager authorities and unfeelingly eager couples, if that's their message and offer to students, it's good that on this case students can see what it is exactly what these people are offering them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60857	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word has an authorised SMS representative, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60858	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers and, of course, students and students, I would not tie this protest, the incursion, as he wants to call it, students in the University of Belgrade, with what is on the agenda today, that is, for amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. As I understand these demands of protest, I don't know why the focus is only on one man, whose authenticity of a doctorate is doubted when we know there are a lot of people in this country, and that probably employees at a university whose doctorates can be questioned. I would still go back to the agenda point and here, for the fourth time since I've been a national MP, we've been listening to how this is the last time that students are given the opportunity to extend the deadline to graduate. However, nothing concrete from autumn to autumn is taken either by the Ministry or by universities or by the students themselves who have been waiting, here, some 20 years. Last year, I proposed an amendment every year that was never adopted, I didn't hand it over, I didn't arrive, honestly I couldn't even physically do it, and the amendment referred to what a specific higher school institution would do in terms of students who hadn't graduated yet, and they went to college before 2005. To be honest, this break-up to me kind of suggests that we as a state are wasting all our resources and showing one weakness. Someone's got to cut it once. I've seen your statement from the Minister this year, that it's over, that it's over, and I really hoped so, and yet on the other hand, I know there are a lot of students who haven't finished their studies for justifiable reasons. But somewhere in this constant extension, it shows people that there's always a new chance of something that can happen, and it never has to happen, and somewhere in the whole country to most things, that's how it works. We have to be responsible. Here's today's session dedicated to this law, it costs our country. Our country costs, therefore, not only the education of those people who have not yet graduated, but this unnecessary extension every year, and every year the spending of material, human and other resources. The amendment envisioned that the higher education institution be obliged to contact students who had not graduated, to see if they wanted to graduate at all. There are students who moved out, who got a job, who didn't want to write, because it's a college job. If they want an individual plan to complete the study by the end of the school year and to see what is the dynamics of passing exams, which the exams remained and so on. We have nothing, no colleges, no students, no ministry, no one's doing anything until next year. You say university autonomy. I don't know, honestly, what that autonomy means. On the one hand, when decisions are to be made in the interest of the university, or employees at the university, then we call for autonomy, and then when it comes to financial or not knowing how, then that autonomy isn't so important, then give the ministry, help out as you know and know it. Unfortunately, we still don't have a higher education system, where the student is at the center of learning. We have a system where, of course, honor exceptions, we talk about state-level higher education, professors who are trying to have hyper-production work to stay in the calling of professors and eventually, those who through various European projects are engaged in other things, and students are engaged in either assistants or most often and nobody. This approach has changed slightly even though we have the development of high-tech technologies, where communication with students is indeed facilitated. And, here's what we're getting back at this law. I can almost guarantee that by next year, nothing will be done. We don't have records, it's unserious as a state as long as from September to September students who enrolled before 2005 graduates, we don't have any information about those students or at least we don't know them. Believe me, as someone who works at the university, I now have a frozen position, otherwise I work at the Department of Support for Students with Disabilities, I know what it means to have difficulties during the study due to disability. So, I know what it means when someone's blind, they study literature, and someone needs to record all his books and all his literature. I know what it means when someone with difficulty moving doesn't have accessible city transport to go to college, there's no available toilet in the university building, the amphitheater is inaccessible, most often in the old part of the building. I know what that means, but I also know that an average student with disabilities doesn't need more than seven, eight years, and I don't generalize, I say based on the records that we have at the center to graduate. So, if someone has such objective challenges to complete their studies on time, I think the time of eight years is fine. You've given students with disabilities in the new law the possibility that double the number of years apply to disabled students, that might seem like some kind of support on paper, but it's all for nothing if that student still doesn't have the resources he needs to study. It's the same with this extension of graduation. It's like this forever. We can write – they have the right to graduate while they're alive, but that doesn't mean anything to us, if we don't deal with it, seriously why didn't they graduate? Does anyone need backup? Are these single mothers, are they people who lost someone in the family, and have suffered certain traumas, not to get into individual situations? I've got people around me who are older than me who haven't graduated yet, who are on two three exams until the end, and I'm sure if college or high school took the first step towards them to get some kind of deal, just some deadline, some mutual interest. This is how I really want to believe that we have the strength. This is how we show weakness almost in every resistor. There's a group meeting, there's a threat to something, and let's go to work on social peace, that's okay. We need to show seriousness as a state in all segments. I really wish this was the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60859	Thank you, Mrs. Mihailowski. Before I give my word to Minister Sarčević, and before we continue to work further, allow me to welcome in your and my name the delegation of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia, members of the Parliament's group of friendships with Serbia, which is currently following part of the current session from the gallery of the great hall. Welcome, dear friends. We're moving on with our work. The word has Mladen Sarcevic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60860	I'll agree with you on the definition of autonomy. You can see it's not autonomy or buildings. Even though it's property, it's not. So someone's property was attacked and it's not legal. A number of other things are not respected for some of the higher goals. We have seen this before, and the law has regulated that, in every institution, it is forbidden politics, even at the time of Slobodan Milosevic, and on here, and there are many examples, there is little time to just list them, I can list a lot from my personal experience. Also, you're right when we talk about money, then everyone forgets about autonomy. Everyone would have one creative way to solve it. A great source of all the trouble, I've been doing it for a year and a half, and I think we're going to bring that law here, even in the spring, which is funding a higher education that's been solved for years, by some weird regulations, where the DRI has been doing all the work you want, and you can't get out of it because colleges haven't gotten into that story the same way. You have the exact same formula for one who has many students and few teachers, and where the state has an interest in being a small group. The student's head-funding device is the force of trouble, less residents, less students, so there's been a kidnapping. A large number of higher-school private institutions have given nothing of quality. We haven't talked about quality at all here today, except on the surface. I think the new 2030 Strategy just did by putting HERE's team that's organized and running, the student at the centre of attention. We are looking for new models of funding high, and this is also through the process of internationalization, the evolution of the professional, which has proved to be quite inefficient and poorly set and we are at the end, through the participation of the state more, through restitution, through a number of other models of opening companies to get off the back of students. It's not a phrase, my Ministry does. We have the support of students, everyone involved in this process, and the support of the academic community, truth, it's going a little slow, but simply, we're going to overcome all these barriers. I don't have a problem. What I said in August, what I'm called, my opinion. I said and I stand further behind it, and I said in the introduction here that on the basis of the government's decision and the Education Committee I made this proposal. So my personality isn't that big, my smallness is going to fit into fifth, sixth place behind the institutions that speak in front of me. I speak for those students who learn well. I was one of those guys who finished my studies and worked before, so I don't have that kind of problem. There's got to be a two-year deadline here, it can't be unlimited, and this is a little weird, but let's say what you may not have heard in the O.R., that we're doing a unique information system in education, and that we're going to try with so few people now to get some other methods to all the bases, get to all these people, really comb, that it's not because of the counting, that we know what to do and with a clean, efficient policy, and when we say, I'm not smart, but in conversation with the deans, the rectors, which I also have good relations with, I'm not the opposite of them, we're the service to them. The Ministry isn't just a service to them, because it's trying to make them feel better about expanding the quota, a series of other things, and I think they feel it. If I tell you that I've had a round of applause at the Senate of Belgrade University as a minister, I don't know if it's ever been recorded, but it says that there's some concern and cooperation between people. There's still a lot to do, but I think we're on the right track, so to our colleagues who are getting a chance right now, I'm really ordering them to hurry up and make themselves known, because if we say - unlimited, that's not a problem either, but then what do we need quality indicators, then what do we need all the other things we do to improve the quality of educated people? It doesn't matter if you get a degree, it matters what you learn from how you apply that knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60861	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. We are now moving on to the list, or by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the general search of the draft law referred to in point 1 of the agenda. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60862	Thank you. Dear Chairman, esteemed ministers, respected fellow MPs, today we have an extremely responsible task, which is to adopt the proposed law amending the Law on Higher Education or, more simply, to address the question of studying old students. The president of our parliamentary group, counterpart Gjorge Komlenski, has already said during his address that the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party in the voting day will support the proposed amendments to the law, noting that the Socialist Movement stands at the point of view that limiting the study deadline is unnecessary and we do not see why it is necessary for us to extend that deadline for a year, two or three, all of one. However, what is most important is the fact that all of us present Members understand the importance of education as a universal human right and that we have the will to, let me call them that again, give the old students a chance to end their years of study. Serbia is not so rich a country as to give up so many highly educated experts who will finish their studies in a year, three or five, no matter how much time they spent on study, and have spent as much as they had to or wanted to spend time. I personally, as well as my party, but also the parliamentary group are an undivided position that much less burden and damage for all to allow them to continue passing exams, than it would be a pity if their studies were now interrupted. Of course, we welcome the fact that the Ministry has defined that the deadline for the completion of the study is two more years, but we believe that these two years, which are ahead of us, we must make maximum use of this deadline not to give some new deadline of year, two, three, five, but to find another, quality and lasting solution that will solve the existing problem for us, and give students the chance to end their long-term study as much as possible. Of course, this application applies to students who study according to the old programme, and to those who have enrolled as first generation students in the Bologna system, who have spent their studies, not to mention, as test rabbits and who suffer many consequences. These students are not subject to the proposed amendments to the law, but these students deserve a chance to finally bring their studies to an end. In any case, as regards the proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education, the Socialist Movement Parliament Club, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party will support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60863	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60864	I need two more sentences of apropo just before the discussion. And personally, I think this is one heavy autogol of any political current, when you attack something that has a category of universities of national importance. We in this home, if you remember, have declared Belgrade University and its Rectorate an institution of national importance, and I see no reason for anyone from the recession itself, from the rector to the proctor or any team- showing one bias- both to the authorities and to the opposition. Is it their sin that they were neutral and that they were trying to behave civilizedly, probably is. Really, I don't understand that someone could have gone to something that's of national importance and that's not done anywhere in the world. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60865	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word is Maria Jevdić. Here you go, colleague Jevdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60866	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, is arriving in October, and the question of old students is reopening with October. For us from JS is nothing controversial, students are given another opportunity to complete their studies according to the programme they have also entered and thus they will not be financially burdened by switching to a new teaching programme. I think in the whole situation and encouraging the fact that, thanks to last year's amendment to the proposed law, more than 1,000 students graduated. Old students don't bother anyone, and they're primarily in the interest of completing the college they've enrolled. In today's debate, we could hear that they were students who had only a few exams left until the study was completed. I had a chance to talk to the so-called. to senior students, i.e. The student, who had an average of 8.5, had three finals left until graduation, had to get a job, had left her school, had three children, and, thanks to the possibility of an extension of her studies, she graduated last year. Minister, I'm glad that you showed good will to give, I wouldn't say a chance, but the possibility that everyone who has enrolled the colleges according to the old program, and they want to finish them, they can, because in our people there is a saying "man learns as long as he lives". If today we were to discuss especially the reasons why they didn't finish colleges, there are many of them, starting with some having no financial opportunities, so they had to work, until almost every university has several tests that are a stumbling block. I think if we move the old students to a new program, then they won't finish their studies. On the other hand, there are good suggestions that the number of exams they lack, are subject to a new programme, i.e. to recognize their exams, and to choose from the new programme the number of remaining exams that are most important to complete the study programme. In that case, it would be an effort for colleges, because they would have to make personalized study programs, which can be done by law. We had a similar situation in 1992 at ETF, when the curricula and the program changed, and they applied to this model and didn't have any old students, because all students accepted a new one. All I care about is that students who study under the old program are not denied what the new innovative programme offers. As you know, Minister, due to modern social demands, programs are accredited to five years. There is concern whether students who continue their studies under the old programme will be professionally competent after completing their studies. For example, when we talk about the education of future teachers, a large number of newspapers in the education system were introduced back several years, which had to be respected in the accreditation of new study programmes for teachers. Students who continue their studies under previous programmes will be deprived of these contents, which can be reflected negatively in the effects of their work in schools. I also have to point out that we have to do everything we can to make it easier for the students, to facilitate their study, not bring them back. For Unique Serbia, every student is important. We want each of them to stay in Serbia after graduation and to build modern Serbia with their own knowledge, so we will support proposed amendments to the law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60867	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60868	You're absolutely right, because, simply, the public is as surprised as it is that we have people in education who are unprofessionally doing their jobs. I'm not going to say that they're useless in schools, but a deficit in mathematics, physics, information, etc. is the condition that the profession has been pushed on some side track for a long time. To make it right, we opened the story. I could have kept my mouth shut, like everyone else before me, and pretended everything was fine. Now the public's asking me what's going on. Well, we opened up to solve the problem, like everything else, as well as when violence is solved. The director was appointed to Barajev just because he hadn't reported it in two days. He can't cover it up. It's zero tolerance and there's no story of it. Looks like it's big. Well, it's not, like, two, three-year-olds show up in this shape. It's shrinking down a lot, but it's getting so much pompous. It's been that news for days. Of course, I've done everything I have to do and I'll do it, but, let's just say, God forbid we had 5% interest in the public when we were in CERN. I'd love to. No one came from the press. A woman from TANJUG came by, I called. In tech park, we wanted to mark it. How important this is for researchers, for the very state of Serbia, I need a full report, but you're right. We are making major changes in the education system and for teaching when we are doing huge training. More than 20,000 people are training for new curricula and programmes, for a new way of learning and teaching and transferring knowledge. That's why we've included all the colleges, and that's almost 50% of the colleges that kind of touch education, so they can still go to college based on methodology and other forms to apply these modern methods of work, because when they get into the education system, they're useless, even those who are working on new programs. You can imagine how much this has to go faster and synchronised, and where we get the money that we keep training and training and training and training until I get here. I analyzed, all the IPAs that were done were programmed for training, so we should be the best trained nation, but when half those couples went to experts, who shared it with themselves and their groups, I interrupted it. We have done really serious training, we have enough of our trainers at the Department of Processing and Education to work as a factory uninterrupted, not just these for a new curricula and program, but also for digital needs. So we didn't just introduce information and we don't bring it down, we don't raise it, it's going to be through all the objects because it's a tool, and in order for people to do it, at least for these teaching colleges, when I tell you to follow what's going on right now, and that's why collaboration with high school institutions is very important. We now have an intense plan to solve both in the short and medium term, but God and in the long term these problems, because we will not have a state based on knowledge or enough engineers and doctors science if there is no one quality to teach mathematics and physics in primary and high school. So they won't even prepare those kids. So you're absolutely right. This story has many layers, so it's important to pay good attention, to do, to see what it takes in further training, to help these people in that part anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60869	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word is Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60870	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, is not the first time we have discussed amendments to the Law on Higher Education that refers to the part where we extend the deadline to students who have entered the programme as old and extends their deadline to finish college. And I now believe, as I had previously thought, that we should meet them and that we should extend that deadline, allow them and give them a chance to graduate according to the program they started the studies on, but hopefully we will also have concrete results. My motive for this is not what appeared earlier in public that students will seek the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Law itself and will follow suit. My motive is because I believe and believe that this will really help a number of students, bring the end of the study they started, and that they will use this extension of the deadline in which they can graduate. On the other hand, the fact is that the youngest students, to whom these measures have been applied, have been studying for 14 years, some more, and there are people who have led the studies to the end. I don't want to go into the reasons why they stopped, maybe in the end, whether it's private reasons or others, how they've been directed by life further, but I think that whoever has a few exams left, a small number of exams to complete or graduate work, that there's a chance to complete their studies. On the other hand, those students who have stopped for the first, second, third year, whose studies continue to run for 15-20 years, these measures will not help them anyway. It's identical in master's and doctoral studies. This extension of the deadline will mean specifically to those students, according to my assessment, who are left with only master's work or have remained defense of doctoral thesis. When we consider how long it takes to write master's work, make doctoral work, apply itself, give consent, act of defense, it is obvious that in this way we will meet only those students who have brought this school process to an end and, of course, in situations where it is realistic that they end the study process and end their master's and doctoral thesis successfully. So, in this case, I'm not asking the question of justification of amendments to the law. I'd rather ask a question of justification. I'd like to have some data, given that we've extended this deadline before how many students have successfully completed their studies, and that it has used the right to extend the study period, because it would not be good to get into a situation where every year we have students' demands, and yet there's no concrete shift. There was also a proposal to apply a solution for students who had enrolled under the old programme to move on to a system of education in Bologna. I understand that this is a practical solution, especially from the corner of the university, which is in charge of the organization, primarily of passing exams, for the organisation of defence of graduate, Master's or doctoral work. Again, we need to look at the situation from the corner of the students and let them finish the job. In particular, this may be complicated in the schools of technical sciences, where all these universities have lasted five years and it is difficult to copy the system into a system of study in Bologna, which has two cycles again. The first cycle, which is more professional again, is focused on the needs of the labour market, and the second cycle enables students to acquire new knowledge, new skills and improve. The average pre-study study in Bologna was seven to eight years and it was certainly necessary to increase efficiency. I think Bologna did it, that is, this system, so this system is more flexible and efficient. Reforms in the field of education should be continued. I think the government is on the right track, that first of all we have good results when we talk about responsibility to social policy, creating a stable legal-political environment, but also long-term commitment to solving this problem. The education system is a measure of the success of every modern state, and therefore we need to find one solution to the long term, to overcome this situation, to overcome these problems and not only to be our quantity priority, but to insist on quality, but in any case, I think we should still give the students who have brought the process of study to an old programme to the end, to finish this process successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60871	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the word has been made by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Professor Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60872	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, is important for today's assembly session, as it concerns the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, which actually enables students enrolled before 10 September 2005 to graduate from colleges in the next two school years according to the programmes under which the studies started. Let's remind ourselves. The deadline for completing studies under the old programmes for these students, under the applicable law, is September 30th of this year. Since a number of students enrolled under pre-bolon programmes so far have failed to complete their studies for various reasons, most often justified, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development have come to meet the demands of these students and have proposed a new deadline, i.e. Another two school years to complete prebolonic studies, i.e. old programs. I think at this point it's a good and only rational solution, the solution that's in the best interest of our so-called. ‘old students’. You don't know the exact number of these students. Different data are mentioned in the public, but the most commonly heard is that it is about three to four thousand students. What is known is that after the introduction of the Bologna Declaration into our higher education system, the deadline for completing studies under pre-bolon programmes was 2011/2012. A year. Since then, this deadline has been several times extended, all with the goal of our students successfully completing their studies according to the programs according to which the studies have started. It is also known that a number of these students were able to make use of the deadlines and get a college degree. Yet, there are also those who were worthy, who passed many exams, but they also had one or two exams left to complete. Because of them, but also of those whose life circumstances did not allow them to take advantage of the opportunity in the previous period, I think it is a good thing that this time they are going to meet the demands with the hope that now all those who really want and who really want to finish colleges by the programs that they started using that opportunity. It is now a great task and a great responsibility for students, but also for universities that, in an organisational and technical sense, should provide conditions for the implementation of this law, which will not be easy at all. I want to believe that the positive outcome of the application of this law in two years will be that our old students have acquired college degrees, and our society has received new professors, engineers, doctors, informers, lawyers, economists, for their own benefit and for the benefit of our community. For all of this, and above all because it is in the interest of our students and our society as a whole, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia will support the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60873	Thank you, Professor. Boskovic. People's MP Jahja Fehratovic is not here. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60874	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today we have a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which proposes yet another extension of the deadline for the completion of studies to students who entered colleges before 10 September 2005, so before the introduction of the Bologna model of studies. In the Law on Higher Education, adopted in 2017, changes are being made, it should be repeated several times in order to know what we are talking about and to get the public to know by the end, students enrolled in primary studies and higher schools by 10 September 2005 get another chance to complete their studies until school 2020/21. year, and students enrolled in integrated studies from the field of medical science until the end of school 2021/22. the year; students enrolled in master's studies by 10 September 2005 and studies under the starting plan and programme according to conditions and rules of study should be completed by the end of school 2020/21 at the latest. the year; candidates who have applied for doctoral dissertation by 10 September 2005, i.e. students who have enrolled doctoral studies according to the rules applicable by that date may obtain the scientific name of the doctor, i.e. to complete doctoral studies according to the initial plan and programme under conditions and rules of study by the end of school 2020/21 at the latest. A year. This bill is actually another opportunity that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Education, and, of course, after the vote, and the National Assembly, if so, gives these categories of students a chance to complete their studies and become academic citizens. This government gesture, which is the proposing one, shows the desire to really give everyone another chance. We are all aware that this extension of the deadline, which in some ways became common before the start of the new school year at the university, presents a kind of problem on several sides, both for students and colleges. This is a very complex question, and indeed, if you go deeper into an analysis of this topic and this problem, you can see that there are many reasons for and against the extension of these deadlines. It is clear that there have been many problems in the past 14 years, since university education has seen many changes, there have been many new study programmes that meant introducing new subjects, then abolishing or tearing old ones. Over the years, many professors now, who were teaching classes under the old programme, were no longer at the university, and so the exams could not be scheduled within each test period and much more remains a problem that conditioned all of this to go further into extending these deadlines from year to year. This all challenges students' studies in the old program, which in the meantime, probably, perhaps one good number of people have been employed with secondary education, some have formed families, some have moved from the cities where they studied, many unfortunately gave up further studies. We understand all these difficulties and therefore support the government's efforts to give these students another chance, the government's efforts through the bill. The extension of the deadline for two more school years should be used by all students, because eventually everything that starts has to be done and finished, everything that has to start has to have its end, not forever to go. Otherwise, if it goes on forever, then we could recognize this whole situation in a joke or a joke that's going around the people, which is that the student who's studied for 15, 20 years finally decides to quit his studies, and his father asks him if he thought twice about what he's leaving his studies, the student says, yes, I've certainly thought about it and I'm going to leave his studies, and his father tells him – well, damn it, we're not going to leave. So students themselves should make every effort to complete their studies and become academic citizens. It is important here that the government, or the ministry, first of all, enables colleges to complete their studies, but it is also important for students to be motivated to complete their studies. Of course, through this you can see that the problem is that they are not in the same situation students who study with a model of bologna and old students and that there should be an effort for the foreign ministry to get a certain opportunity when all deadlines are up. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Education Strategy in 2012, let's also remind ourselves, which plans to increase the percentages of highly educated in Serbia, so that the extension of the deadline allows for the number to increase. So, in any case, in this sense and for these reasons, although the dilemma is much, whether or not it should, however, the SPS is defined to support these changes and to extend deadlines for students who have entered the old programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60875	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60876	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly vote in favour of this law, but I will probably vote in favour of amendments, an amendment extending this deadline for more than two years. The reason is the Martians. If we say that Gilas Martian went to Mars, stopped his studies, how long did it take him to get back? Probably takes him longer than two years, probably already been there before he took over the Rectory building. It's a certain Srdjan Markovic who dared to try to take over the presidency building, so when he failed, he was prevented by the Cobra, then in short underpants he took over the Rectorate. A 31-year-old student, missing three four years of retirement, to be a retired student. The first condition for retirement is 15 years of internship. Since he's 12, he's probably missing three years of student training to retire and be a retired student. Apparently, he looked up to the giants of Jesic, the Sutanovac who studied for 12, 13 years. This Martian is obviously going to outrun them. By the way, this student is a pet of Belgrade professors, Danica Popovic, then Teodorovica, etc. He's a feather. No one's stalking this student. Otherwise, student Jaksic, who found that Professor Danica Popovic plagiarized the translation of textbooks and deleted the late professor Babic, received a fee of 1,400,000 dinars for this authorial work or draft, therefore not her favorite student, Jaksic, who found it because she has an average of ten, but her favorite student is Mr. Srdjan Markovic, who, after trying to take over the presidency, successfully took over the Rectorate. He has been assisted by Bosko Ljotic, a recently yellow man who has joined these yellow leeches and is taking the trails of Dimitri Ljotic. Dmitry Ljotic said we don't need voters, we need fighters. Apparently, the union of crooks and frauds wants to implement the password into the work of Dimitri Ljotic and therefore needed Bosko Obradovic and therefore they need such fighters. Here, the elections give up, so we don't need the voters, we need the fighters, that steam belonging to Dimitri Ljotic can be attributed to Gilas, Bosca Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and the other members of the alliance of thieves, frauds and frauds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60877	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60878	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's first amendment to the law that has otherwise spurred much greater public interest looks a little bit like the day of the groundhog and is generally repeated every September. It even happened in October once. It is true that there is a solidly large population in Serbia that has a problem with enrolling some studies at the university, and the study failed to complete within the given deadline. When the deadline provided for by the law is received, the deadline is first moved for one, then for another, two years, and probably in two years, another call with some other MPs, some of the same and some of the new ones most likely to discuss this same topic if the principle comes down to the fact that the deadline continues for a year or two days does not change. Basically, today when we talk about this subject, we're not sure exactly who all the students are, how many there are, and what kind of situation they're in. One first, a really good step would be that every college, however hateful it is to determine which students, who definitely gave up on them to finish college, because most of them probably did give up, some of them moved away, some of them have careers and those who say they have no interest in finishing college simply don't get run on those lists. It's not some excessive problem, it's easy to get in touch with people and it's coming up with data that lets us know exactly who these people are that didn't finish college. After that, in addition to saying that you are now two years old and if you do not end up in two years, then we will be very strict, there will be no extensions, what will some answer that will then be complaints to the Constitutional Court and so on, and we will likely find ourselves in a similar position, being fundamentally questioned in the whole thing – what should we do to make people who declare that they want to finish college really do so? In principle, they're not brilliant students because brilliant students haven't studied in decades. These are students who have learned some knowledge with mahogany, which is, in the meantime, obsolete, so a big question that is finally expected from when these people graduate from college and whether they need to find flexible ways not to throw away some of the work they've invested. The question is whether it's a good solution to offer people a degree, so who enrolled in college to win if there's a certain difference in calling high schools, which is better than having a high school. Is someone who got stuck in the first year even a candidate worth discussing after all the years or second. It's obviously a pretty big backlog. In the light of this, if we bring in dual education, it can be achieved that part of the commitment, let's say for some degree of diploma, is done by doing part of the practice in the dual education system. Finally, colleges should probably make a plan with each of the candidates, as they think they're finishing college, that they think they're getting a calling elsewhere, that they think they're getting a calling in part by ending up in college, partly ending up in a dual system case. It's all options, and if we just pass this law, and it's not followed by one big decision to deal with these people, I'm afraid in two years, there's going to be one exact same subject here, so whoever talks, who watches, who doesn't care at all. What is essential is that the solution that is bad and the solution that is good is better than the solution that is limbo, and basically if we just extend the deadline, and none of the environments in which these people live and do not decide to complete a college in practice does not change, it is difficult to believe that there will be some significant differences. It's a shame for our society to lose any knowledge, not to take advantage of any knowledge some people have acquired. Considering how many years it takes to study these people who are subject to this law, each year that is delayed and which is given a new opportunity to do something that most do not intend to do, it necessarily leads to the obsolescence of these knowledge that has the essential declines in the market value of these people even though they end up in the old school sometimes. So it is my opinion that if we really want to help these people, because we are not a country that has defined that higher education is exclusively an individual investment decision and that the state has nothing to do with it, which is also not a bad principle, but as we have defined ourselves for another principle, it would be good for the ministry to help the colleges. Of course, by not violating their autonomy in any way, and by giving the colleges themselves the impulse to do something with these people in the form of an individual program that will help these people, within this deadline that provides for the law, truly and completes those colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60879	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs know that since 2005, a Bologna model has been introduced into our system of higher education, designed to integrate European countries and set standards in higher education among signatories. The Bologna Declaration seeks to establish a system in which the borders would disappear and where collective spirit, community and solidarity would be nurtured. Some of the basic characteristics of Bologna are university autonomy, international competitiveness and mobility, in terms of freedom of movement of students, professors and scientific researchers, which is also one of the main objectives. Until the introduction of the Bologna model, students were able to pass the exams within less time frames, while the scope of the test substance was higher. The bologna system allows certain reliefs, several test deadlines and a continuous division of commitments throughout the school year. In that sense, the Law on Higher Education obliges professors and colleges to distribute their obligations on the subject throughout the year. In the beginning of the application of the Bologna model, students who had enrolled in the university according to the old plan and programme remained at the university. They had the legal right to complete their studies under the old programme within a certain period. For various reasons, deadlines for completing the study, so-called old students, we've moved over and over again. In their study extension applications, these students pointed out that they were not bad students, that they did not expect diplomas to bow to them and that many of them were employees and support their families. A large number of students remained one or two exams until graduation, which are not in a position to pass because of the lack of compliance of study programmes. Today we are discussing a further extension of the deadline for the completion of the study to students of primary studies, doctoral studies, which have been enrolled before the introduction of the Bologna system and the deadline extends to another two years. I believe that both students and colleges will make every effort to end their studies under the old program at their colleges. This is important for students, so that they can use knowledge as quickly as possible and get proper jobs in line with high professional training. For the colleges, it is important to make an effort and organise the passing of these exams, to get out of a number of problems that have been encountered in the past 14 years, while organising at the same time teaching according to the old programme and teaching according to the Bologna model, and we are well aware of the problems of the university, from lack of lecturers, textbooks, to lack of space. I support this extension, because I am convinced that this chance, not to say the last, will take advantage of everyone who is really motivated to finish their studies. The SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60881	Thank you, pal Rakonjac. Now the word has Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60882	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are considering amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which refers to the extension of the deadline for the completion of the study to students "prebolons", i.e. students who entered the studies before 10 September 2005. So, according to the old program. To remind you that the Bologna model of higher education was introduced in that school year 2005/2006. The aim of this educational system is to reduce the study time and increase the passability of one year of study in the next, introduce on each subject the pre-examination obligations you make during the year, and thus end the obligations related to one subject and you make the EGF credit. The number of students in groups has been reduced, the number of colloquiums, tests and homework has increased, and all of this is forcing students to learn in continuity. The old model of education has worked parallel to today, because it is estimated that about 5,000 more students are still studying according to the old model. Of course, it's not easy for colleges, nor for students who enrolled their colleges 15 to 20 years ago. On the contrary, it's complicated, and because of the changes in the study programmes, the lack of students, the prolonging of deadlines. But here, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respecting all the reasons, such as programming differences, additional differential exams, possible return to a lower study year, inability to continue participation activities, potentially high costs of administrative processing of transfers and others, so the government gave students another chance under the old programme. And I believe this time the students will take this opportunity to finish their studies. To be honest, as a doctor and as a scientific worker, I know from experience that many knowledge goes out of date. Science is fluid. Large changes occur, both in the field of education, and in the field of scientific and research work, so it is good that students of basic studies, and especially of the magistrates and doctors, end as soon as possible in the old programme, so that the knowledge that they acquire under the old programme can be applied, that is, so that their research does not lose meaning and meaning. An example of this is certainly medical studies. I believe that my colleagues who are studying under the old program will be more difficult to deal with medicine, because many scientific changes, achievements, new operational models have occurred in the field of medicine, and therefore I urge all students to finish their studies as soon as possible, to have useful knowledge that will be able to use and allow them to work. The implementation of this law over the next two years and the colleges will require both funds and scientific resources. It is known from earlier years, in which we also moved and extended deadlines, that there are problems in organising exams, which no longer exist, professors who no longer examine these subjects, as well as additional exams that students have to take because we have a difference in exams. It is also important, as we have heard, that the deadline for students studying under the Bologna system is extended. For all these reasons and arguments that have been presented and which are on the side of students, but also on the side of the university, I welcome the government's efforts to extend the deadline once again and allow students to complete these studies according to the old programme. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60883	Thank you, colleague Bukvić. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60884	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovica Palma, will support the amendment and higher education proposal. But when we talk about old students, I wouldn't call them old students. They're graduates. These are almost students who completed their studies, listened to all the programs and left one, two, or several exams to graduate. That is why I thank you, on behalf of the parliamentary group and all students, and there have been over three thousand e-mails that have been sent to Parliament and us as MPs, asking them to complete their education and to bring their studies to an end. The Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovica Palma, believes it is necessary to support students, to support education, especially at the moment when a large number of young people leave the country, when we have a shortage in professional staff, when we are fighting the white plague and when it is very important for us to keep as many intellectuals as possible in our country, to work and to have as many trained and professional personnel as possible. The Single Serbia MPs believe that there is a good will of the promoter and that these young people should be given a chance, that it will be a positive outcome of this law and beneficial, that these graduates and our society will benefit if we allow them these additional two years to complete their studies. Thank you for being able to outvote a number of experts around you who have advised you otherwise and where you have been categorically that these students should move on to study, if they want to complete studies in Bologna and that you have still given a chance, probably and sufficiently confident that we will not consider this proposal again in two years and that those who want to take the opportunity to take advantage of it will take advantage of it. At the time when the students enrolled, the University Law was in force and there was no deadline for completion of the study. After all, we also have examples from many, let's say, foreign countries, as well as when we read them, we simply wonder that a person in older years has completed their studies after so many and so many years of listening to the study program. Also, what I'm trying to say, dear Minister, at this point, is that this extension is a very rational solution, because it is in the interest of these students and this problem and you, and we, as MPs, have seen from all sides, but also that colleges must, in fact, have some effect on the colleges that both technical and organisational create conditions that these students can bring the studies to an end within this time. The exact number of these students who are studying according to the old program we don't have, we're moving, let's say, these systems between 3,000 and 10,000 students, we'll know when there's a unique number when it comes to students and students as far as these students really are concerned. From the above-mentioned parliamentary group of JS Dragan Markovic Palma in this way meets the requirements of a large number of students who have sent applications and e-mails, because we believe that absolutely why not give someone the opportunity to finish what they started and why not give him a chance when he has already come to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60885	Thank you. Now the word has professor. Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60886	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that education is a common topic in the National Assembly, regardless of today's agenda and our attitude towards this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. This is an opportunity to express our view and opinion of this activity, because education as an activity is a wide and large multi-disciplinary content and as such cannot and should not be the product of just one idea, one concept, it still requires a high degree of intellectual, ethical, valuable and any other independence. It must be a daily concern, if you want success, because education has a crucial impact on the formation of our consciousness, in style and lifestyle. The problems of Serbian higher education are in the internal system. Programs, textbooks, professors, methods of work, evaluation, management, but even more in the social environment, society, state, media, globalisation. Can scientific awareness be a stronger factor in the democratisation of society and how much education plays a role in the context of the transformation of the economy, politics, culture, everyday life and human standards and is knowledge as a product of education of goods for the market? Now let me say – no, because many fundamental and experimental research is cost-effective, and not chargeable. What about the science business? When is this kind of partnership going to get wings? School fees at individual private schools are bigger than in state schools. In return, I apologize, it's bigger in state than in private. The research dinar will become part of the numismatic collections, not only hatched, but simply gone. The company is oriented towards profit and the state – the key issue is financing, which concept of state or private, free or paid. How to make adequate use of social – intellectual capital? Modernity in class, what is it? Mobility? Easily passing teachers from university to university, from college to institute? Will the issue of easy diplomas become just an ugly and sad past? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are still examples that private political likeness or not liking plays a significant role in promoting professional orientation. These are just some of the issues and problems of higher education, which are not, whether students enrolled by 10 September 2010 at all academic levels will be allowed two more years to complete studies according to the start-up plan and programme and conditions and rules of study. The attitude of the SRS is to allow, without limiting this deadline, anyone who falls under this category to do so whenever they can, they want to, even if they want to. Now, we've come out to legalize someone's need for irresponsible behavior towards ourselves and society. This behavior costs nothing to the state, but it rises to a level that doesn't deserve long-term treatment. In this context, I would have cited an example of a certain Italian woman from Sicily or Sardinia, ten years ago, if she had graduated from college at 91. When it comes to the question of journalists, why does it, which is her motive to decide on such a thing in those years, she said – as she studied, she realized that the student age is the most beautiful year in a man's life and she simply wanted to enjoy her life in that status. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the problems of higher education is, of course, Bologna. Serbia joined the Bologna process in 2003. It was a clean touch law, and the laws of the state are short-lived laws, which show literally every year, each year changes and additions of these laws have been made. Bologna did not manage, nor did she fit into our higher education space, she even introduced a lot of confusion and ambiguity with her European system of transfer of points and accreditation of study programmes and institutions and made our high education system very inefficient. Then, the reputation of teaching staff working at all levels of education is below the level and requires the moment and needs of a society that wants to develop rapidly. Earlier work habits and morals were excelled with profit, so instead of professional features, some others, such as thesis and corruption. In this context, I must remind myself that political divisions in society have also reflected on education. Here's the current case of occupation of the Rectorate and occupation or violation of the university's autonomy. The idea to which we seek is certainly a practical distinction of professional competence from the political definition of teachers. Private colleges are a story to themselves, each in its own way, centrals are one, and departments are another. The goal is geographically to win space, not educationally content quality teacher. High schools and colleges were easy to open up, but they were closing up, and every village bigger had a church and a higher school. What's left of those who attended those schools? Cyrillic and the Serbian language in the country of Serbia have become a painful issue, as if something had conspired against us, and it did not. We are not only careful enough, we are easy to think about, and the pressures on our language and the Cyrillic are done every day, they come from several sides and they suppress something that is only our own, so we need it to be much more important for us to have an idea, to introduce Serbian language to all colleges, which makes sense and needs. We need the foreign language as a means, as a helper, and the Serbian language not to expose ourselves, not to be born, not to alienate ourselves from our expression, meaning and identity. In every profession, every public service has people with sticky fingers. If the service is single there is less damage, but the damage through the purchased diploma, and not only long-term, is higher by the reputation of education as the primary social activity is irreparable because it bears a permanent mark. The system can only be a system when it does not make unjust concessions, otherwise it weakens its position and reputation. Dear colleagues, last week we had laws on the protection of intellectual property, so the question of plagiarism, I appeal to the principle of academic integrity, which is based on the independent creation of scientific works and respect for other people's copyrights, in order to preserve the dignity of profession, to develop and raise moral-ethical values, to protect and value knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, all of these interventions in terms of amending and supplementing legislative proposals will not improve the high education system in Serbia, nor will it contribute to its improvement, until the key issue of higher education is resolved, and this is the problem of insufficient relevance of higher education, i.e. its compliance with labour market needs, as shown by the waiting lists. That is why the most productive part of the population in every sense, both biological, intellectual, professional and scientific, is leaving the country, and the country of Serbia is left with about 40,000 people each year. Dear colleagues, it is important that we listen to European directives without speaking, and agree our regulations with European ones, but even when you agree with something, you need a little more self-respect. Dear colleagues, by summing up my discussion on this subject, I will only say as far as registration policies are concerned, as one important item in the system of education that the position of the SRS is that one of the criteria of the entry policy be the length of the Bureau's work, as well as an increase, or a reduction of individual quotas for certain profiles. I'm way out of line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60887	You're not a professor, you've got time. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, the proposed amendments to the Higher Education Act create conditions for students who until the end of school 2018/2019. in the year, they failed to complete their studies according to the start of the curricula and programme in terms of conditions and rules of study in the next two school years. By passing this law, these students are given one more chance, but it is clearly ordered to safeguard the institute of acquired rights. Many human and living reasons have led to these students not completing studies, although the deadline for completion has been moved several times. We can inform ourselves of these reasons based on the experiences of some students, acquaintances and ultimately personal experiences. Among these students are mothers, women whose beauty falls, but also the burden of parenting, single mothers, people with disabilities, those who had to get a job, because they have become homeowners through a complex of unfortunate circumstances, but there are also people who have a second college, who are in postgraduate studies. That's why there's no need for hard words and bad qualifications, each of them deserves another chance. Serbia has no reason to give up a large number of people who are on the verge of becoming intellectuals, to be a leading force in our society, according to esteemed Professor Marko Atlagic and adds – many of them finished their studies by moving deadlines earlier. That's the chance others deserve. Serbia is today more economically powerful than ever. It has economic growth after years of surplus, lowers public debt, reduces unemployment, which is at a historic minimum with record investments and foreign investment heights. Anyone who speaks of the extraordinary results of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, of this government, the SNS, of the successes and accelerated progress of the Republic of Serbia, is led against it by the dirtiest drip in certain media, preceding the TV "N1" under the command of Dragan Gilas. A boycott of the opposition's election led by tycoon Gilas has been announced to flee from the truth and the court of Serbia's majority. In the New Prince, from which I come, a 5% censorship is absolutely unattainable for them. One of the reasons for this claim is investment in the facilities of educational institutions in Novi Knezevic, especially by the Office for Public Investment Management of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with an amount of over 300 million dinars. President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, on 13 November 2015, said – Our task is to reconstruct and restore all primary and secondary schools, preschools, hospitals, health homes and gerontological centres in the coming years. Together with the Office for Public Investment Management of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your Ministry, Novi Knezevic has joined the resolution of this task, so I am taking the opportunity to personally and on behalf of the President of the Municipality of Novi Knezevic, Dr Radovan Uverić, Mr Minister, to attend the opening ceremony of the reconstructed elementary school facility in Banatski Arangelov, which was planned for October 1st of this year and handed over to the students of the OS "John Jovanovic Dragon" in Banatski Arangelov for further use, as well as to personally thank you for the approved project of full-time teaching in OSH in the Serbian Krstur, school furniture, smart tables, electronic textbooks and assistance of the preschool institution, which you have shown that the children from the New Prince are not forgotten, but also at the perseverance in implementing the reform of our education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60889	Thank you, colleague Jancic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60890	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we are considering two major topics. One is the majority of students, and the other is governmental proposals, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to meet this category of students in order to continue to maintain student status. However, this approach will not solve any of the problems that exist in our higher education. The purpose of education is to acquire adequate knowledge, i.e. obtaining a degree as tickets, so that certain jobs can be done. That's why I don't understand why this thing isn't solved in a simple way, which is why everyone who wants it and who can afford it doesn't allow themselves to study as much as they want This, a team before, if we know that it's fashionable now that people are entering colleges at 40, 50, and even more years of age, not getting into how they end up and where they end up. One person who enrolled at a university at the age of 40 or 50 is not old enough to study, and someone who is 30 and a few years old has extended his studies for sometimes justified, sometimes unwarranted reasons, if this is to be sanctioned in accordance with the Law on Education. Therefore, the SRS argues that there should be no restriction in this respect. It would be the same to you as if, say, you were punishing someone for not starting a working relationship on time and then punishing him – well, you didn't start working on time, you won't be able to get a job anymore, because you've already gone too far for a working relationship. We need to know that the fact that someone graduated from college, that he was a great student, that he had a high average, is not necessarily a guarantee that he has great knowledge and that he will be a great expert from such a person tomorrow. We have a lot of cases where some of them were great students, but that didn't bring them any luck. It didn't even bring them material benefits. In this way we are just spinning around and on the one hand we meet students, and on the other hand we limit them by the time limit they will study. We know that in all the education laws there are tendencies and intentions to force the so-called. All my life's study, and we here have a certain category of students limiting, in my opinion, absolutely unnecessary. Science develops all the time. With science, it is never possible to finish, because it is constantly developing and science knows no deadlines prescribed by the minister or the Ministry of Education. It's clear that there are certain problems here, but such problems should be left to the colleges, that they themselves determine the level of difference in exams, the level of material that these older students need to lay down, and here from one colleague we've heard of a good example in this regard. It's an example of the Faculty of Economics in Nis. Of course, I know that fact as a man from Nis, and I can really commend all the people of this university. We have in our education that she performed, so to speak, a decade, that reverse evolution occurred. However, no one is excited about this because this process is not visible at first sight, is not visible to the naked eye and is not visible at the moment, but now those who are a little bit engaged in this, see and feel the consequences of the Bologna process that was introduced during DOS, 15 years ago and over. The bologna system of education has penetrated the sanctity of the saints, to the formation of the consciousness of our citizens. Personally, I think we'd better get through to the greatest secrets in this country. That way he'd do a lot less damage than this. These, like many other things, have been inherited from the EU and we are constantly warning that everything that comes from the EU is not good, because we know that the only civilization in the history of humanity that has had a destructive, devastating effect on all other civilizations in the world with which it has come into contact. Today we have intellectuals who out of their knowledge, general knowledge, use only the signs of the interaction ". rs," but therefore, on the other hand, they know all other things – how to manage the state, what planetary relations are, what happens in the cosmos etc. That's what every spoon of water in the ocean shows that there are no whales in the ocean. So we have to do everything to restore the reputation of our education, because what we have now is going in the opposite direction. Many of the things that are coming to us from the EU already have their foothold in the days of Nazism, and this is particularly visible in our education. Here, for example, the Nazis felt that the slaves of the Reich had to be deprived of every education and every kind of art. It was enough for them just to know that they were reading so they could understand their apparitions and their orders and know the simplest tunes, and that's where their level of education ended. Today with this Bologna process, we're almost making a belief, from a perfectly solid process of education we've come to what we're not aware of yet, and what we don't know, at least not all or most, what it's going to lead to. This reminds me of the Papuans who traded gold for glass beads. So, we had a very solid education system, but under the pressure of the EU or anyone else, we agreed to something that was certainly not good. Giving up on yourself surely leads to ruin. A lot of people realize that these things are wrong, but they can't figure out what's wrong, they can't affect it, so come on, they know that this can't be better, or worse, by, come on, it's not burning, let something happen, and that way they accept what's right now. There must be no playing with education. Education is a serious matter. There is a need for consistency, perseverance, etc., and any consistency and any perseverance is always worth it. If Sisif had given up, no one would have heard of him. Like this, we will be the first generation in the history of civilization to have less knowledge at its end than with all the beginnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60892	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60893	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will briefly discuss the proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education. The amendments to the law are certainly done in order to improve the same and create conditions for its absolute applicability, and all in order to improve the lives of our citizens, so that the application in practice of the Higher Education Act, which we adopted in 2017, has shown that it is necessary to make changes to the work relating to the prescribed transitional deadlines for the completion of studies under the start of the curriculum, conditions and rules for students enrolled in studies since 10 September 2005. In view of the fact that, in September after the second or third entry deadline, the entry in the school 2019/20 is completed. year, this law needs to be passed by emergency procedure because we thus remove the possibility of having adverse consequences on the work of higher education institutions when enroling in this school year. Therefore, students subject to the amendment of this law in the appropriate status shall be allowed to complete studies following the start of curricula and programmes and conditions of study. All laws adopted by the National Assembly apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as I have already said in advance, in order to improve the lives of our citizens. I am not repeating this by chance, but quite intentionally to address our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija, my fellow citizens in Kosovo Mitrovica and everyone else who sees the state as their own. In order for the state of Serbia to survive in Kosovo and Metohija and thus protect its citizens and enable them to live decently, it is necessary to go mass on the polls and vote for the Serbian list on 6 October. The vote for the Serbian List is the only way to survive, work together and fight for the future of our children. I must say that we in Kosovo and Metohija know perfectly who is with us at all times, that we know that President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely taking care of everything, protecting us in crisis situations and looking forward to us when we are well. Because of the survival and future in our Kosovo and Metohija, we must remain unique, get out as much mass as possible on the polls and vote for our candidates from the Serb list, because they are the only ones who have the support of Belgrade, not under the pretext of "Albanian candidates" who would be in the future "Kosovo government" for Kosovo's independence. I stress that the Serbian List in the previous period has proved that only it, with the support of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can preserve the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which are needed for the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. The elections in Kosovo and Metohija are never ordinary choices, but it's always a referendum for survival, so we don't have the right to make mistakes, but on that day, it's October 6th, when we get up in the morning, we put our finger on the head and we think hard about where we are, who we are, and what kind of future and fate awaits our children and us if we are not unique. What do you think Vladika Rada would say? That is why I call on you to vote for the Serbian list because only the Serb list, supported by our President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can bring all that is necessary for the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60894	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in September we were most concerned, if not exclusively, with laws governing the education area in Serbia. It is not even strange considering that the beginning of the school year is in September or at the colleges of October. That's just fine. Mr. Minister, we have a feeling that you have come to this House today in front of MPs reluctantly. I can kind of understand that, and I understand, you've had one attitude, he's changed in the meantime, and when people have an attitude, they have a principle, it's just like that, and what we can do about it right now. What we insist on and insist on isn't just, is for political reasons, we are a political party, we have our own goals, we have our political principles, as principles at all, but we have enough arguments that this law should not have been passed in this way, and it refers to an extension of the deadline for all students who entered colleges before 2005 or 10 September 2005. The Bologna education system was completely unacceptable for Serbian citizens back then and today. We didn't do what the president of the state likes to say, no special result here. There is a universal rule rightly known as that law cannot be applied if it is worse than the one it refers to. This is even the principle of criminal law, and therefore analoguely to this way, this law could not apply to students who had enrolled under certain circumstances. Which is very interesting, this is one problem, but you, Mr. Minister, along with your associates, have not tried to learn what to do further. We have a group of students and no one knows exactly what that number is and now it doesn't matter whether it's 12,000, whether it's 7,000, whether it's 5,000, but something that's obvious right now that these students have gathered about 3,000 signatures. So there's so many of them at least, but you've already heard from an authorised representative of the SRS, just that there's one, he's entitled by the Constitution, Article 71. The Republic of Serbia, to be trained in a manner or under regulations that were in force at the time of its enrolment. What else could be concluded here? What were you supposed to analyze? You've complained several times in this House that you're missing about 90 employees at the Ministry of Education, and that he's guilty of this Employment Prohibition Act. On the other hand, we hear again that it doesn't apply, that it doesn't exist. Haven't the conditions for employment restrictions stopped? There are also extremely good things that the Ministry of Education should affirm, which is the success of not only our students, but certainly also the professor at the university who should be affirmed in public, and you said you had no information service. Given this problem, we should do an analysis of how many of us we have giving up our studies. It's not a group of these students. These are those who have stopped fully studying, the intensity in all more developed countries, countries that take care of their education system, is to reduce that number. What's with the entrance exams, Mr. Minister, if we already have a large number of students studying longer than some average time? A few things that should be kept in mind, here the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj, once said that on his study trip he met a man or a person who was a guide at the time, who graduated from the fifth college. His hobby might be to study, and that's nice. There's a man in Uzic who went to college in his 70s with the intention of finishing him, and I know a man who wants to doctor after he retires. We're getting ready by then and he says, "I want to send a message to our youth, to our youth, to people who are employed, to learn and work their whole lives." If we have in mind these things, then this relationship and the extension of the deadlines to a certain limited time loses its meaning. It would make sense that this law suffers from changes in the absence of any restrictions. A few colleagues pointed out here what the Faculty of Economics in Nis did well. They had Project "Let's Start" and that's good. Now I'm not saying it anymore or I'm not saying it again because of a professor at the Faculty of Economics in Nis, but to remember others. I extend the deadline, and that college and even the Ministry of Education don't have any obligations, that doesn't mean much. To extend that deadline and help students finish it, here, as a concrete result of 158 invited to Nis, 28 graduates. They say, some data exist, that in the course of last year some 1,000 students who have status have so-called status graduated. "old students." We also know that certain ministries and certain economic operators support requalification. The state is investing in it, and we have here expert personnel who may need to pass, some one, some two, some a little more tests. There are health workers among these personnel. We've got chemistry professors, I didn't know until recently that no chemistry professor existed on the labour market. The professors of physics are also in a similar situation, and there are students who lack at those colleges one or two exams to complete it and they would then be teachers. On the other hand, we too need to recognize three reasons for the length of the study. First of all, according to us, the system, second of all, are teachers, shouldn't be hiding it, third of all are students themselves. So, the system, and that system must include the Ministry of Education and must include universities, colleges and other education institutions and third-class students. A professor, who is now a professor at the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Belgrade, when he was a doctor in America and was at a consultation with one of their professors and asked - whether to close the door, he said - don't close the door, so I'm sending a message to the students that I'm available to them for 24 hours. There are such teachers in Serbia too, and that should be a good example. So, academic strictity should not be neglected, but we should not insist on some things that have been overcome, but simply to imitate the education system both students and the needs of our society. If there are about 2.930 exams at Belgrade University, they say there is a 30 per cent pass on about 300 exams. And there are so-called. difficult professors, teachers who follow the mantra – if you pass that exam at that university, then you're the one who finished that college. Isn't that enough signal for the Ministry of Education? Not endangering the autonomy of the university, not endangering the freedom of lecturers, but something has to change, to see what it's about. A large number of teachers have relied in their system of education on assistants. Asists to build a career, they are more dedicated to science, and they are less committed to students, and here we have these reasons and problems that often arise with us. I highly respect these students, because some colleagues themselves have said that there are very successful businessmen, whose wealth exceeds perhaps the average wealth of serious companies in Serbia, and perhaps in the world they have not been able to buy, they have long been able to do so, but are trying to finish it. That is why I respect it very much, and we believe in Serbia's youth in the SRS, and it is up to you, Mr. Minister, to solve this problem in a different way and to resolve it permanently, not at a certain time, as is this situation. I'm absolutely sure this problem will turn up in 2021. Then how do you solve it? Then you'll extend it again for a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60896	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60897	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Sarcevic and his fellow SNS and its coalition partners have been ready to face all challenges with the goal of ensuring Serbia's prosperity and our people. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and as prime minister of the government, stressed the importance of dual education. Analysis of the effects of the regulations of the draft law in dual education has been carried out. The analysis has shown and defined the problems the law needs to address, then the desired objectives of law-making and found that law-making is the best way to solve the problem. Local self-government where I come from, the town of Leskovac and the mayor of Dr. Goran Cvetanović recognized the necessity and benefits of learning through the work of the employer and supported and encouraged the directors of professional schools to establish co-operation with the economy. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the German government, Serbian-German co-operation, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the project – The Reform of Secondary Professional Education, implemented through the German organisation for international co-operation of GIZ in Leskovac, at the School of Textile and Design since 2013 was an engaged expert from Germany who helped establish co-operation with the economy. Through this project, the director, experts, teachers, students had the opportunity to get acquainted with dual education in Germany, to establish partnership relations with schools from other countries and to monitor technological development, and to visit fairs of textiles and textile machines in Milan and Istanbul, as well as to participate in the development and modification of the curricula and programmes in line with the needs of the economy. In the company "Falke", the example works, in Leskovac for the sixth generation of students, who learnt through work in a real working environment in practical classes, after completing schooling, got their jobs. In the company Autostop Interiors, five generations of students were given jobs at the same time as 18 years of age. Students receive financial compensation for learning through work in these companies. Co-operation is mutual and well-organized. The implementation of curricula and programmes is monitored, and instructors, mentors at companies regularly inform the school about the achievements and progress of students through the student matrix and are in constant contact with teachers of practical teaching. In addition, the German government equipped a confectionery with sewing machines and completely renovated and equipped a training centre at the School of Textile and Design, and the company "Falke" donated two machines to make socks. The school has full support for local self-government and the opening of training centre was of great importance for the town of Leskovac, and in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the German Embassy and GIZ, as well as businessmen, Mayor Goran Cvetanovic opened this, according to the highest standards, equipped workshop. Today, apart from Falke, Autostop Interiors, Jinsi and Dixes, Lola, Tricotex with this school have contracts to conduct practical teaching and student scholarships. Also, there is excellent co-operation with the technical school in Vlasotinc in the German government project implemented via GIZ, which includes five other companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60898	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60899	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the Serbian government is committed to education, as it is also the key to the success of our entire society. In a short period of time, intensive reforms have been carried out, and it has best assessed and recognised the European Commission, because our results are very visible. The government of Serbia has invested around 150m euros in the reconstruction of 128 schools throughout Serbia since 2014, and 25 schools are being reconstructed at the moment, and public procurement for the reconstruction of about 50 schools is being prepared. In our country, there is an overall reform of the education system. Last year, digital textbooks began editing. This year, Serbia has for the first time 10,000 digital classrooms, covering about 200,000 students. All over Serbia, we are working on budgeting for another 10,000 digital classrooms in 2020, and in 2021 we have complete digital education. Investment in education guarantees the country's development and future, as investment in education is an investment in the future. I'd take the chance to congratulate our high school boys who are 27. The IT Olympics won four medals. They actually won first place in the competition of 13 countries, of which two gold, one silver and one bronze medal. I would also condemn the incursion of students from the "One of Five Million" movement in the University of Belgrade Rectorate, because it is a disrespect of students, in general, institutions. I hold in my hands a statement from the extended presidency of the Student Parliament of the University of Belgrade, which yesterday, due to the threat to the rights of around 100,000 students of the University of Belgrade, held an emergency session of the extended presidency of the Student Parliament of the University of Belgrade. Legitimately elected student representatives have been disabled from holding a session in rooms within the Rectors building by the crowded students who blocked the building. "The student parliament's presidency is unanimous that this expression of views threatens the teaching process and prevents the work of services that are at the service of all students. We stress that the use of the Rector premises in which exams, lectures and consultations are held, the submission of documents and their personal takeover, as well as the maintenance of all sessions, commissions and meetings that contribute to improving the conditions of study and resolving their problems, as well as the signing of international agreements on exchange of students." All this is in the November Parliament statement, and of course in the voting day, I will support amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. By doing so, we will extend the deadline for studying students under the old programme and allow them to complete their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60900	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60901	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which allows students who have enrolled their studies by 10 September 2005, to complete their colleges in the next two school years. The new deadlines for these studies are set until the end of school 2020 and 2021, and for students enrolled in integrated studies and external medical sciences by the end of 2020 until 2021. This problem in our country was the introduction of a Bologna system that had the primary objective of setting and integrating standards in higher education among the countries of the Bologna Declaration. The Bologna Declaration was meant to bring together students from all European countries to remove borders between countries and to help students of the world's economic and political situation cultivate ideas of community, collective spirit and solidarity. Serbia signed the Bologna Declaration alongside the others to solve the so-called problem. a number of students. Students left their studies in 45% prior to the introduction of Bologna, and the most renewed year was the second year. With the introduction of the declaration, students hoped for studies that would be released, extensive and unnecessary and obsolete literature and texts, which would be more carefully selected for a particular sphere of study. The introduction of the Bologna Declaration allowed academics who entered studies under the old programme to graduate from school in 2011-2012, and then on several occasions the deadline for completion of the study was moved. First, 2014, then, 2016 and 2018, to get a deadline of one year last year, more precisely until September 2019. The exact number of the so-called number. The majority of students are not known, but it is estimated that they are currently around 10,000 in Serbia, with not all active. A careful analysis of this problem concludes that there are numerous arguments for and against this way of solving. Students as the main reason to extend their time for obtaining a degree point out that at the time they attended colleges there was no limit in studying to reduce their degree of education to the Bologna system, which means that they would not be evened with master studies, but would get lower callings. They would also have to pass additional exams, along with payment, as well as recognition of those they have already passed. They would also have to attend lectures, although most of them are graduates with a maximum of four exams until graduation, and they also point out that most of them work and have a family, which limits their ability to meet such obligations. They call for this, for example, Slovenia, which, upon joining the EU, gave old academics 12 years to complete their studies, including the example of Mark Duil, a Zagreb law student, who, upon Croatia's entry into the EU and who has been abruptly cutting off the opportunities for old academics to complete their colleges under the law under which they started him, sued the state and received them in court. On the other hand, there are a number of reasons that are against such a solution, among which it should be pointed out that some of the classes that students had when they enrolled colleges no longer exist, and the problem is that there are no professors for these subjects. Also, all old study programmes have been modified to a greater or lesser extent in the accreditation cycle, which followed the adoption of the Law on Higher Education in 2006 and no longer exist. I believe that only the extension of deadlines from year to year without looking for innovative solutions does not constitute a quality solution to the problem, and that this is best confirmed by the realized project of the Faculty of Economics at the University of Nis, titled "Completed". In this project, which proved extremely effective, over 100 students took part in a single call. Some of them have successfully reached their first diplomas already after two exams. The main thing of the project is to organize classes on Saturdays and Sundays for this group of students, with professors from the university sacrificing their spare time, but still managed to achieve the goal set. For this reason, colleges need to take first steps in the context of solving this problem by calling on this category of students, who will understand that someone is taking care of them and not only gives them another year or two to finish their studies, but help them. In the end, let me as my colleague, Krinakapic, call on my countrymen from KiM, as internally displaced persons, to preserve the difficult political unity of the Serb people in KIM and to prevent Pristina's insistence and unfortunately some Serbs from making it difficult for Serbs to co-ordinate with the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. We will do the best if we go to the elections and trust mass on 6 October, as we have so far, to present to the Serb list, which in close co-operation with President Aleksandr Vukic and other competent authorities will best realise the vital interests of our people and the state in the area of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60902	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60903	I thank the chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, the draft law amending the law on higher education, which is adopted in an emergency procedure, allows students who have enrolled in studies by 10 September 2005 to finish their studies in the school year following the start of schooling for the period from 2021-2022, by going to medical studies, and therefore being brought into the emergency procedure. I will support it in the voting day, and that is what the fact that many have been prevented from getting to the desired degree is all about. That's why I want them to use those deadlines, which has allowed them the Ministry of Education and to reach the desired goal and achieve their diplomas. It must also be appreciated what the state does for all of us, that much is done to acquire knowledge and education. That's what the laws we've passed in this home are talking about. Today we adopted the Law on dual education in higher education, because we have to learn, seek new knowledge, specialize and get more capable generations ready to respond to each task, develop and preserve our country. With KiM, we know what the state does for us, how much it invests in these areas, builds, builds kindergartens, schools, student centres, works on youth education, assigns scholarships to responsible and valuable students, helps young married couples, builds and assigns apartments, invests in health care, invests in tourism, building a Paradise spa in Banjska, a water pipeline in Zubina stream. So the state and our president, Alexander Vukic, are standing by us, and he understands us. He understands and understands how difficult our lives are, suffering and concern over months of pressures from Pristina, threats, arrests, Special Forces raids to the north, abductions of the Gaza Strip and Trepce lakes and the introduction of a tax on everything that is Serbian. Those who are boycotting parliament today and those who are calling for a boycott of the election took a step back. At that time, Tadic, Jeremic and Djilas allowed KiM to declare independence and allow the same independence unilaterally declared to be recognised by more than 100 states and establish a border between Serbs and Serbia, the border on Brnjak and Jarinj, but that Serbs themselves share us for their own personal interests and wealth, swearing to patriotism, they forgot about Serbs, from Gracanica, Strpce, Rinilug and Gnjilan. So today, when we have strong Serbia and the president who understands us, we have a Serbian list with which we should be unique and complex, as we know it, and we have shown many times so far. We will also show on 6 October that we are fighting for survival and staying in our premises, that we are with our country and that we had one goal, a strong Serbia. There has always been injustice, and justice has always been lacking. So it seems to us Serbs, that it is easier for us not to even know that we are fighting so hard for our own, to live in peace, to believe in the policy of peace led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, to vote for unity and the Serbian List, which is our country's project, and it will return it to us as it has always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60904	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60905	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, somehow always, every year at this time, we discuss the subject of the so-called the old students, i.e. on their deadline for completion of the study, and there we always have a conflicting opinion on whether these deadlines should be extended for a year or two days or whether these deadlines should be extended indefinitely or perhaps completely abolished. It is true that we may not know exactly how much accurate and accurate data we currently have students who have not yet completed their studies under that old program, but I think what is the fact is that in the last few years, this number of students has decreased significantly and that many students have decided to make an additional effort and finish their studies. I think that one of the reasons for this is the fact that in 2016 and 2018 we extended those deadlines for two, and then for one year, which is also a kind of pressure, but also an incentive for students to finish their studies, because they couldn't know if we were going to extend it further after that original deadline and make new deadlines. Many of them, as I said, have made additional efforts and completed their studies, and now the number of students under that old program is much smaller. It would be very good to come up with accurate data on the number of those students in the next period and then to do a detailed analysis in 2021 and see if it makes any sense to extend those deadlines further. What's my opinion is that as long as the number of students, those so-called. The old students, they reduce and while they're finishing colleges and they're using these deadlines that we're giving them, it makes sense to extend them, but it should be borne in mind that there's definitely a number of students who don't plan to finish colleges at all, so at some point it'll probably be necessary to draw a line and cut with it. I think it's very important that we have an understanding of the bologna as well. They have enrolled colleges on stricter or more unfavourable terms. Many of them, who do not finish colleges within the deadline, who have one, two or three exams, face the situation of adding an additional number of exams, having large financial obligations, and since many higher education institutions have little understanding or understanding, then the recommendations of the ministry and committees are quite useful for those students as well. You've been commenting on the Ministers of Honor today and on the situation in the record in the last few days, and you said that what's going on there is not a feature of democratic behavior, but it's not even close to being the only example of such behaviour. You had a statement a few days ago by DS President Zoran Lutovac, who said that anyone who participates in the elections will suffer the consequences when, which is a completely scandalous statement that, not only is it not in line with democratic principles, but is choking on the fundamental democratic right of the individual to choose and be elected. Somehow it turns out that those people who are most called for democracy, for freedom of choice, for freedom of speech, who act as if they have a deed over democracy, somehow it always turns out that these people are the opposite of that because they have some features of authoritarian behavior. What's been going on for the past few months, not to say the last few years, is an attempt, one very arrogant and rude attempt, to impose on the whole society the will of an absolute minority, which is a violation of one of the basic postulates of democracy and what I think is that there is not even in their behaviour the outline of democracy, just a mere name of DS, or as they are already called, and that in their function they show all the opposite and that they have one constant need to choke the opposite and different opinion from theirs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60906	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60907	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, in the previous period we received a large number of emails from students who enrolled studies under the old programme. They appealed for who knows which time to extend their studies. I don't mind extending their deadline, because I respect every man who wants to learn and compete. However, I must also point out that a major burden has been transferred from the university to the ministry to solve decades of problems and correct countless wrong steps from the past. It can't be an unlimited time of study, because it's simply not pedagogical, it has to be limited, which is why the ministry has proposed two years of support. We're not here to play good cop and bad cop, so some universities are good because they care, and the more money they pay to pass exams and the full fund of the university, the worse the ministry. Respecting the right to learn and upgrade, and we also advocate lifelong learning and upgrade, because smart people in a responsible country are always few, especially in a country that needs rapid recovery and prosperity. So it's decided this way. The government of the Republic of Serbia has increased the number of students to study and finance from the budget for the first year of the University of Belgrade and to enroll in the first year of study programmes for basic, vocational, academic and integrated studies. So, the number of freshmen at the University of Belgrade, which will be on the budget this year, has increased from 572 to 638. This government, this ministry takes care of young people and makes it easier to be as many students as possible. Neither the government, nor the Ministry of Education, nor the minister personally are enemies of students as some media wanted to show. How much has been invested in the better standard of living of students in recent years alone, how many homes are redecorated or completely new for students and students in order to have better conditions for life and work. Statistics say that over three thousand students remained with a variety of life fates, with their objective and subjective reasons why they extended their studies so much. But in the previous period, according to some statistics, there were eight thousand, and I'm very glad that this number is shrinking drastically. On this occasion, I ask the Minister to deal with more detailed evaluation criteria in private and state colleges in the future, which I consider to be quite unequal. To be clear, I don't mind private colleges. There are private colleges in the world that are highly appreciated, such as the University of Number One on the Shanghai List is a private Harvard University. The leading universities on this list, whether private or state, mark the fact that students come out as top experts in their field, full knowledge that provides jobs in the most prestigious and most paid firms. From this point on, I propose that, as soon as possible, the ministry, on the basis of carefully selected criteria, be presented with a ranking list of colleges that will be a good guideline and employers. Even the length of study must be clearly indicated, because it doesn't matter who graduates from college in due time and who after more than a decade. Better paying jobs and better companies should be for the best. It is important to restore the reputation of higher education institutions through constant control of the criteria of evaluation and the credibility of professors. So far, we have seen in practice that many rectors, deans and professors have abused their position, because we have extraordinary experts at universities dedicated to professions and dedicated to students. It's the Ministry's control to see who belongs to the group. This ministry wants to radically change the way the university functions so students who meet labour market requirements come out of them, but the same with the adoption of new laws that have torn down privileges and a system that has been in place for 60 years, where smart, ambitious young teachers have been refusing to interfere with their order. In this way, they reduce the importance of the pain and effort of those who are at higher-quality universities, with great effort and denial they get the same name. For future and current students, I want every advance in the field of study for which they will need working energy and learning elan. Every new working day, association with knowledge and science will contribute to a higher level of their confidence, fulfillment, enthusiasm, but also a positive attitude towards responsibilities and work habits. When the lectures begin, you will have to carry out all activities faster and more decisively, as studying requires in addition to learning and maintaining discipline, a strong focus on achieving and achieving the goals envisaged. On the other hand, including the work and programme of the events of student organisations where you can continue to show your skills, your teamwork, personal qualities, initiative and design ideas, but beware of those who want to abuse you. Take care of those who want to abuse this country's youth for political purposes. As we are witnessing the recent vandal behavior and events in the Rectorate and blocking the work of this institution, students should not be involved, but only by learning and working. The country of Serbia takes care of its citizens by coming to the government of SNS in 2012. Change for the better is not as fast as you young people would want it, and we're not even a little older, but the situation in the country was so bad, so heavy, the country was stolen and stripped, organized crime flourished. So we all have to make our contribution together according to our options, to distinguish between right and wrong and to keep those who don't think well isolated and not to let them poison us all for their personal wealth, because Serbia has a future led by Aleksandar Vukic, who suffers huge blows and those low, primitive, of those people that I really don't want to mention that I wouldn't give them any significance. Alexander Vucic is in front of everyone, not at the beginning and courageously paves the way that the predecessors have poured only with thorns, because behind them is nothing but desolation. And they hate him and us and you respected students, because you're smart and educated and they can't manipulate you. We want you to have as much as possible, to join you in the fourth industrial revolution, because Serbia has a future. Do you know why they hate Alexander Wolf and the whole SNS? Because success is not forgiven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60908	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60909	Dear Natasha, I just have to give a few sentences in favor of what you asked and suggested. In front of university education, it is possible to check candidates' knowledge at primary and secondary school levels, we are now introducing a neutral graduation, a state-run one, which will put it in complete order. This should have been done a long time ago, some countries in the environment did it 10 years ago, Slovenia, Croatia and others. It speaks of the overall state of work of each teacher individually, but also of the school. It's that bidding that school is better than it's gonna stop. Thus, the reasons why someone pays their job better will be more visible. And there you can check the exact levels of knowledge and not knowing it in a way through some test and repeating the content, but using acquired knowledge, which also runs us for high ranking to PIZA testing, which is internationally recognised. I already said we're in that TIMS test, it's that first cycle of elementary school, already 27th in the world. These are visible results, and for a short time this cannot be done too quickly, because there must be reform of the curriculum and programmes, training of people, licenses of directors and test small graduations and large graduations, test centres and the Office of Quality. That's one big job. We do it. We've already gone somewhere maybe 40, 50%. So that takes time, because the generation that started with the old model has to finish it, there's a very decadent law. It is often mentioned here that the law has given the law, the Constitution, that but to study, to learn, did not prevent you from what model, it does not say in the Constitution, that now we do not play. The same law allowed them to end by the deadline we gave, so they didn't. So life is older than law, and we're here to follow it sometimes. When it comes to university education, of course until a moment ago we have talked about shutting down autonomy in one of the vulgar ways that is indeed a precedent, this should be said by both the European Commission and the EU and all other people who deal with democracy in Europe. But when we talk about how high education will evaluate its work, that's where we find the big problems, that's where the high-level people want to get into that story. For over a year and a half, I have more teams, where people from the academic community, ministries and various domestic experts, where we are just trying to install these quality indicators. Through a unique information system will also stand when it is entered and enrolled and how many students and what grades there are and everything else that raises the rating college, but also where it is employed by the employer, how much pay it has and so on. However, when we adopted the Higher Law here, we had to indirectly install some models that should now yield results. So the consciousness and conscience of the people on the high must be at the level of that and we all expect it from them, so that autonomy obliges her not only gives rights, ethical commissions, so all possible people who work there must be aware that it has to be done. For me, for a year and a half, people who work high don't want ranking, no matter what, even if you bring it into connection with high-ranking finances, it's a disaster. Then you have rich colleges, under quotes from rich people, who with far fewer professors, have far fewer students and easily come to money, no change suits them. So, I've been saying this publicly for three years, and I've been with them on a Sunday level, I don't want any war, but with quiet water, I'm slowly coming to the goal and the consciousness that needs to win, because in the law of financing high, it's just a roof law that when we bring down all these dilemmas. The employer's opinion, not only through what we get where it works, but after a year spent on work, is completely different for professionally, where it will be more intensive, and of course for academically, it will be one of the great quality indicators. So many private universities and universities will ask themselves a question, and what we did, what we invested money in. If you don't have that feedback, that's good, and that's going to be public, that's enough indicator to say, so why write this down when I can't get a job at any serious firm, yet to pay, you understand. We have a third model, and that's internationalization. When you have really many foreign students, when you have a lot of programs that you have started working with prestigious foreign universities, and several times the Faculty of Economics is mentioned in Nis, I will mention this time the Economics in Belgrade, which has great contracts and programs with the London School of Economics, the best in the world according to this criterion and many other of our universities are starting to do serious programs. The Belgrade University that I now have to defend here, the Rectorate has indeed entered the ranks of seen universities across Europe by classification, co-operation in the fields of science and everything else. So that's the third block of indicators. Once we get all this online and put it public, then the ranking list itself will be on a unique system of information and that's what we do. Otherwise, they'd be causing war and tripping, and I'd had enough. Let me tell you, these aren't the favorite topics in high school because I insist that by rounding up reforms they end up with the High Funding Act. All the people in the academic community are involved in this. Absolutely all teams are you, because this will not be cut down on the laws or the octrossed rules. There must be very clear rules and I think that's what we're working on. There's no way for you to hear from some college student who's finished that college and give him a test to see if he learned there, no one in the world does that. But there is a way of applying the Faculty of Geography and Dean Filipovic, meaning, when it comes to Professor Pavlovic, who is my good friend from the student days, who is too strict, and who after three shootings has a commission. That's what any college can do, that's what you're allowed to do. I think it's an invitation from here from this high house to make sure that people aren't alone, that their work is public. So whoever goes out to the amphitheater, the classroom, he's public, and you know it all, and you see it. I think it's past the time, the kissing, the sleeping, we can go on and on. I really commend co-operation with all the recessions of all the states of the world, so I think they're starting to cooperate better than when we introduced NAT and new rules, you don't have an accredited private university.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60910	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. The word has a People's Messenger, Desanka Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60911	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the Parliament and the respected citizens of Serbia. Today we are talking about a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. The government of the Republic of Serbia passed a bill amending the Law on Higher Education. This law allows students who have enrolled their studies by 10 September 2005 to graduate from college in the next two school years. The schedule of new deadlines for completion of studies according to the start-up plan and programme, conditions and rules of study create conditions for students who until the end of school 2018/2019. years, failed to finish their studies, to do so in the next two-year period. The new deadlines for completion of the study are foreseen by the end of 2020 to 2021 and for students enrolled in integrated studies and fields of medical science by the end of 2021 and 2022 respectively. The implementation of this law has provided funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The law goes according to an emergency procedure to eliminate the possibility of harmful consequences by the work of higher education institutions when enroling in school 2019/20. a year, students to whom the amendments to this law apply, in an appropriate statute that allows them to complete their studies under the starting of curricula and programmes and conditions of study. Independent higher education institutions will comply with their acts under this law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. Higher education is the highest quality part of schooling. The need to work on doesn't need to stop. We have lifelong learning, which doesn't mean we have lifelong study. Knowledge has limits, no magic sticks, no quick and easy solutions, no painless changes and no brave politicians in Serbia such as Aleksandar Vukic who has allowed the implementation of this law. The primary goal of schooling from basic to high is to provide education that will enable people to work and contribute to the community, so that we help these young people to overcome their problems, take advantage of the chances we give them, end up starting and join the community. The reasons for their extended study are diverse and causal. This is a very correct opportunity for them, which brings them back to society. This is a very reasonable decision by the Government, along with the Ministry and the President of the Republic. I would like to say a few words, that is, to repeat the words of our President Alexander Vukic -- as much as I want strong, safe, rich Serbia, I cannot reach it alone. We need energy, strength, will and a clear vision of such a Serbia in each of its citizens, in the entire people who have given me this mandate already decided to take this far and hard road. I'm calling and I want to mobilise these young people to whom we've given the chance to join us on this trip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60912	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60913	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. At the very beginning, I would like to point out how important it is for the citizens of Serbia to live in a strong, stable, orderly and fiscally consolidated country, a country which, above all, takes care of its citizens. Since coming to power, the SNS has faced years ago the accumulated problems arising from the times when the greatest thieves and criminals, such as Djilas, Tadic, Jeremic and Petrovic, ruled this country. These are the young people we're talking about today, academic citizens, future academic citizens of this country understand. They also realized that almost all problems can be solved if discussed, if there is a dialogue today, living in a country that rightly approaches and solves almost all citizens' problems. As I said, these young people have understood that, while the famous elite, experts, experts, I ask you, if I have forgotten a name to help me as they call themselves, are unable to understand that the only criterion you have is how you rule with the trust of the citizens and in the elections. That's why we need to keep these young people from this quasi elite. Here, on arrival to the National Assembly today, I heard that Dragan Gilas published the book "introduction to kleptomania" on page 619, where he explained on each side how he robbed Serbian citizens, so on each side he explained how he took the money from Serbian citizens. One side one million, 619 pages 619 million. Nebojsa Zelenovic failed to write the book, but therefore he succeeded in life because the book was written about it and it was also written by DRI on over 600 pages, where he spoke on each side of the budget city's management irregularities, Sapca, and only for 2016, worth five million euros. We also have to protect young people from Bosko Obradovic, who says he lost the only gray cell he had, so now he must not come to parliament for dialogue. Also, colleagues from the Chacan library say that while working at the library in Chačka did not know how to write a booklet for the first class. The other day, looking at the break, I visited the Republic Square for the first time. Of course, it looks phenomenal, I met an older lady who was so bitterly insolent and my question about what it is, she says – let two idiots roar in the Square of the Republic, I took a look at it when it was Bastac and Zelenović. And in the end, I can't help but mention armed sociologist Jovo Bakic, who would use weapons to solve certain things by public institutions in Serbia, while also seeing some bodies floating on the Sava, which only fascists did in World War II and in the last war stood up. My colleague, Professor Marko Atlagic, spoke a lot about him these days. I wouldn't repeat myself too much, the only thing I would say is what you may not all know if he participated under the patronage of "Sabatz" TV, in a performance in the market of the Sabbath where that performance called – fresh air. It was in April of the month, and there were a lot of people involved in this performance, and since April of the month, we continue to spend the Sabbath of Jova Bakic and we can't get through it, what are you going to do, feel enough. Therefore, students, our future academic citizens should not worry, while Alexander Vukic and SNS will have the best conditions, both for study and for finding adequate work after study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60914	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60915	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens, as colleagues have already said, today we are considering a bill amending the Law on Higher Education with only one amendment. The change implies that students who have enrolled until 10 September 2005, are extended to study schedules under the old programme. By the way, this situation is well known to everyone, given that it repeats itself, I think this is the fifth time. It's obviously a special category here, so-called. old students, who for certain reasons cannot complete their studies. Their reasons are of a personal nature and I have no intention of getting into it, whether they are justified or not, because according to the e-mails they sent us, many of them are aware that they have exaggerated, as they themselves stated in our letters to the MPs. However, we are willing to support their efforts to fight for their diplomas this time, and I personally wish them a lot of success. I hope it shows a higher degree of responsibility, and above all I think about those who have only a few exams left until the study is completed. As for the deadlines, or the existence of the deadlines themselves, I think that deadlines should exist, because everything in life has a term of duration, and education must not be an exception. To be more specific, I mean getting formal education, not all my life learning, because all my life's learning is an unlimited cycle. As for allegations that can be heard that these degrees in the lifetime they are in are probably not going to bring much, it may be true, but I believe they're looking at it a little differently. I don't even think they're expecting to work on that profession they've been schooling for so long, but I don't think they'd want to give up, and it's understandable and quite specific to a man that he's having a hard time dealing with the fact that life has brought some other plans and some other time. And I also believe that some of them can really give this society a lot and that what they really do, and we too, about this problem, we find human reasons as a solution, not those practical ones that are relevant to institutions, is that we are all just people who are fighting for something. They fight for themselves, we fight for them and their future and we're on the same mission. It is not necessary to lose sight of the behaviour promoted by "One of the Five Million", as well as Obradovic, Lutovac and other failed politicians, not only won't bring a better future, but it will bring them a big spot to the present. Unfortunately, their enthusiasm, which is characteristic of their age, rather than using it for their own benefit, is being abused by failed politicians for their own account. And the bills of these students who have been manipulated will only be full if they commit themselves to their own learning and work. Violence certainly won't bring them a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60916	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60917	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr. Sarčević, with a guest from the Ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. The Law on Higher Education, as we know, was adopted in 2017 and should now be amended in that section relating to the prescribed transitional deadlines for the completion of the study according to the started curricula and programme, for students enrolled in the studies until 10 September 2005. As we know, these deadlines for completion of studies in primary studies, higher schools, master's studies and candidates who applied for doctoral dissertation have been extended several times already. The introduction of the 2006 Bologna Declaration, which changed the way of schooling, gave the academics who enrolled under the old programme a deadline to graduate from school 2011/2012. A year. The deadline for completion of the study has been moved several times. First in 2014, then on 2016, then on 2018, to get a period of one year last year, more precisely by September 2019, to complete the studies. The draft law in Article 1 provides for an amendment of Article 148 to paragraph 2. The Higher Education Act, which prescribes transitional deadlines for completion of studies under the start of the curriculum and programme for students enrolled in studies until 10 September 2005. What's this shift in? First, students enrolled in primary studies and studies at higher schools no later than the end of school 2020/2021. year, and students enrolled in integrated studies from the field of medical science until the end of the school 202122. A year. Second, students enrolled in master's studies until the end of school 2020/2021. A year. Third, candidates who entered the doctoral dissertation no later than the end of school 2020/2021. A year. The exact number, I'm not going to say "evening students" but -- old students, you don't know, but the assumption is that there are over tens of thousands in Serbia. Not entering the grounds of the students, why did they extend the study, whether it is justified or not, which would open a long-term debate, I have to ask myself - why did these students who e-mailed to the MPs in the National Assembly now not advertise, also by e-mails, the entry into the Journal of the Old Students, such as Srdjan Markovic, known as "Marsovac", aged 31, who could have completed the studies seven years ago? I think that the time he spent in the protests and the time of his incursion into the presidency and the Rectorate could have been more useful in studying and finishing college. Only if he uses the rectory building as a quiet oasis, where can he learn? Finally, I must point out that there have been attempts to help these students, such as the "Completed" project at the Faculty of Economics in Nis, but this is a partial solution, and this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, we generally address this issue, while removing the possibility of having adverse consequences for the work of higher education institutions when enrolling in school 2019/20. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60918	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60919	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, from previous discussions, it is clear that the majority opinion is that this amendment and the addition of the Law should be adopted and I join it. There are a lot of students who, for certain, justified reasons, probably private, personal, have failed to graduate from college by now. It is a long period of time from 1998 to 2019, 21 years. There are probably people who have no intention of going on or going to college. And that's why, I would support some of the presentations of colleagues that we heard today, that in this period that is ahead of us, that colleges take a commitment, whether through a survey, whether through what, to see exactly how many people who want to finish colleges and how many of those who haven't thought about college for years. I know a lot of them. I would stop here as far as the law itself is concerned, because I know two respected professors, a doctor, who have devoted their entire life and working life to it, and I think they know a lot more about this subject than I do. I'm only going to mention here the shame that's happening with the blockade of the rectory building. Those who are unable to face opinions, which are not across the road, who have no ideas, who have only managed to destroy themselves, themselves as part of the opposition, who are trying to force us who are the ruling majority to destroy ourselves and hand over power without choice, without the will of the people, have tried, but using someone else's children, not their own, to implement their own political goals, political goals that they have not shown anywhere, and who are probably the ancient history that was from 2000 to 2012, the goals of enriching and filling their own pockets. Dear gentlemen, give us some ideas, because this way you will not defeat Alexander Vukic, nor the SNS. You're just forcing yourself into even more isolation. Don't even think about it. Today I read a few views where the persistent refusal to go to the elections, a boycott as the only solution, mentions what Mr. Jova Bakic mentioned, some long knives. Don't dream about it. Serbia has had enough wars, both brother-killers and whatever. Serbia wants a future, Serbia wants a future, Serbia wants us to live like the rest of the normal world, and that's Serbia's majority. It is Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60920	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60921	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am at the beginning of my address to praise the minister in some way and to say that he had understanding on the Committee today and that we have very easily agreed on the subject of students of the "Bolognaci", that it will be recommended to the colleges to allow them to continue their studies in the next two years, I think, and to find a solution in this period that would have found a way to bring all the problems in this Law on Bologna into order and that we no longer have these problems. On the other hand, I said right away at the beginning, people so much that Bologna has brought us so much trouble, not to say something more difficult, that I promised myself I would never mention Bologna again in my life, no matter what happens. Then our Mihajlovic intends to coach Bologna, and for him, I must mention that Bologna. This second question, the question of old students. They can't possibly be the ones with the "early students" epithet, they're the old students, a certain year ago, or a date. People went to colleges under some law that didn't limit their time of study. The other day, a colleague of mine came to me, and I'm not going to mention the names or the names of the students or colleagues for the protection of the citizens or, as they call it, about the data, a colleague came to me, retired, for a year he's retired, etc. And he says, "I'm a second generation at FON, and I didn't graduate from college." So this isn't something new, this isn't something that Minister Sarcevic brought or what we brought. This is something that's been going back 14-15 years. We have been given not such a pleasant duty and obligation to solve this problem in the most painless way possible. My proposal today was, I remain on this proposal, that these people who have entered those studies under the law that was in force at the time allow themselves to study as long as they do not finish. No one gives right to me, nor to my fellow Messengers, nor to the minister, nor to anyone to stand in their way, and to say to them, "Well, you can't go any further." Why? Well, because, here I am, an advanced member of the SNS. I think I'm a patriot, that I'm a legitimate citizen, that I'm a professor and ultimately a Serbian citizen, a Serbian citizen. Not one of these epithetists would want me to step down and make a decision that would be against the law, or not the law, but the oaths I took in this assembly when I was an MP. In that oath, I promised to do everything I did, in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Well, what might be our best interest to limit these people's study? Someone said there are 3,000, someone said 5,000, 12,000, it doesn't matter, let them have one, let them have 10,000, let them have 20,000, let them finish those colleges they started. I've got here, look, so many files of their copies, they brought it to me. I have a colleague here, I said, I don't want to mention names, a colleague who passed 28 exams, just one nine, all tens. I have a colleague, 1966, a literature student, all tens, to one, two exams left. He tells me - Professor, I have a private job, I have money, I will never do literature, but I want to finish that college with an average of 10.00. I wasn't one of those students who had such a big average. I'm not gonna say I was a bad student, I was even among the better students, but, well, I had this pain of being stubborn, because of Edward Cardell and some of his principles, so I stopped my doctorate, and instead of doctoring at some normal time, I was a Ph.D. at age 48. Am I missing something? I don't miss anything. I've had a career in college, I've done a lot of things in my life, I've got family, I've got grandkids. Why? If someone had gotten in my way, and they could have said FON -- wait, you can't do a doctorate for 20 years, stop, change, do something. I've come to this situation once more in my life. That was 2000. I was chairman of the Education Committee and after that coup came some power, they called themselves democratic forces, some DOS, and I don't know what they're going to do to abolish students' rights until then. And I stand up as I am, and I say, "People, I can't vote against students, I can't go home to my children to appear on my eyes." I can't even go to my wife to show up on my eyes. I support students. What happened? Normally, "suppliers" - fired. I took it as I accepted it, I fought as I fought, and I managed to get back. I would not like it to happen, as one of my colleagues said, in Croatia a student sued, so he won in court. What do we need to complain about with the students and go to the courts? You don't have to. We allow them to continue their studies under the law that applied when they entered. I'm not a lawyer, I don't know the law. I even have some fear of rights because I'm afraid of being able to measure it. I see that there are many colleagues who say – they are right, no one can deny them the right acquired, etc. Someone says there's no professor to question that. I've heard from dozens of professors, which those who are retired, what those who do and say, we'll question for free, we don't need a fee. Here, Professor Atlagic and I are right. The one in the field of historical science, me in the field of management and marketing, we can ask if there are no such experts. What kind of a country would Serbia be if it didn't have teachers for all areas? Not to have them, but we have teachers who are top-notch in the world, so don't push problems under the carpet. Now I'm going back to something that's been bothering me for a year. We were more than a year ago, some colleagues were here and colleagues who went to Banja Luka, we had a joint session of the Committee on the Education of Republika Srpska and Serbia. On the same issue, the government held a session with the Republika Srpska government, and it was agreed that our Institute for textbooks and their textbooks would do textbooks that would be common to the Serbian language, for history, for geography, I don't know what else, and why? To preserve our language, to preserve history, to preserve everything that touches the people of Serbia. Did we forget that? It's not gonna happen. Nothing's happening. What's going on here in Belgrade, and I believe they have the same case? The school of textbooks that once gave Serbian budget 50% of its profits and which was founded, normally, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, now camped. I don't know, who picked it up, who took a piece of his market? They took foreign companies, "Clet," or I don't know their name either. Some people talk about corruption, some people talk about this, I don't care about that. They tell me -- if Professor, you're like that, and you want everything to be taken by Serbian firms, you're not, you're against some foreign companies participating. That's not true. Here, I'll compliment a foreign company. Since 1 January 2020, the use of single plastic bags has been lifted at Belgrade level. What really impressed me? One of these European companies, the DM drug chain "Driggers Markt", means it's not a "market" but a "markt", I don't know why, it's been decided since 15.10, that since October to get into the action and cancel the sale of these plastic bags. It's a great thing. What don't I like about them? I'm not sure, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, I understand that instead of those plastic bags, they're gonna sell some canvas bags, etc. which are ecologically fine. I make them a proposal, if they're so interested in preserving the environment, which is positive, and for their business in Serbia, so let them be schmokers, so they can share those plastic bags or bags, however they want, for free, at least until the new year. I support that decision, and I welcome it, and I would like all companies to behave that way. Why? Such a policy takes care of the well-being of our community in which they do business and in which they generate some income, create some money. Together we will fight to preserve our nature for future generations. There have been a lot of stories about the Rectors and about this group of people I can't say they're not old students, because most likely, if they haven't finished, they are, they're part of that group of old students, but we can't identify them with people who are correct in fighting for their rights, who haven't pointed out political belongings, who haven't asked for the support of any party at any time, etc. No, their request is to resolve their rights under clear rules, and they're all they're looking for, and I support them in that fight. Today, when I went to this break through Knez Mihajlova, I see in the window a book, I like to watch these books, so sometimes I buy them, today I bought a book called "Prag". I don't know what it says, but the title of the book intrigued me, and I bought that book. We're on the threshold now. Are we going to move forward and solve this problem for all time, because some other minister, some other composition of this assembly, would solve again for two years and extend for a year, for two, for five, etc. Or are we going to take a step back and do what I just said instead of once solving this problem for all time, we're going to stall it for a year, for two etc? Today at the session, I finished my speech with a proverb – which you can not leave for tomorrow. I've proposed to the Minister, if he has consent in the Government, that the Committee should make an amendment... He has our amendment. My colleague, you know that I've been for your amendments, no problem, but I've made it painless, to be this amendment to the Committee and to solve this problem in such a way. I believe there will be enough wisdom, that there will be enough intelligence and that we will not allow ourselves to stand in the way of people who for various reasons have not arrived to finish their studies in time. Thank you very much, pleasantly, I'll vote for your amendments, colleague, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60922	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60923	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Arsic, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected students under the old teaching programme and respected students under a new curriculum and programme, in transition to many areas of life and work have experienced a major disturbance, but the biggest disturbance has experienced our education and education system, especially higher education. Until 2000, the Republic of Serbia had one European prestigious level of education and education. It was that year 2000 that he came to power the DOS headed by the DS. From that very year 2000 until 2012, and in Vojvodina longer, I will be corrected by Dr Martinović, I think by 2016, we had a destructive education system in which we had reached the Pedagogical Dead Sea, a pedagogical tragedy or a state of chaos and hopelessness, especially during the time of Professor Gaša Knezevic and Assistant Minister Prof. Dr. Sr. Turajlic. I must tell you now that I mentioned this minister, Professor Dr. Dr. Turajlić, that it was they, I underline, that the professors of the University, were giving and hiring people at the university past the scientific councils. When the next minister came and returned it to all scientific councils, they had to confirm. I'm a witness. In many colleges, they didn't do it. Today, our children's fate is being set up by these people in doctoral studies. If I need names, I'll talk, I have no problem. That's what they know about it, but it's gonna be a turn, and it's gonna be a turn. The same professor, Dr. Turajlic, who hopped in 1999 and 2000 in the five-octobaric regiment, does the same thing to you, gentlemen of the students, today at the Rectorate. She called, that's right, Mr. Martinovic, the Honorable Doctor, for the bombing. Let's move on. By coming to the government of the SNS and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic in 2014, this and President Brnabic often mentions, it is crucial to us, you will see why and why they forge many data from the programme, the Republic of Serbia dramatically changes the situation for the better in all areas, Mr Minister, and in the field of education and education. You're an experienced man. I must say, you were the victim of this minister and this teacher, because you were successful. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers and respected fellow professors of the University, many serious governments of serious countries in the world in their programmes gave education and education a prominent place, you know very well, the minister knows it well, and our Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, in 2014 in his programme of which we always have to leave has given us a significant place. I quote: “What is most important to us, which I wrote about the most, is human capital for the future, and we must learn and raise knowledge to the pedestal from whom we are seen further and from whom we can move to new victories. ” It's a finished quote. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the professors, and Ms. Ana Brnabić's Government understood that well, and managed by digitising her to achieve a commendable result, as did you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, with your associates at the Ministry of Education. I'm sure when Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said in his exposé that he had a German philosopher in mind, because I know he knows him very well, not very well, but excellently, the Libnica that he said, I quote: "Give me education and we will change the character of Europe in a hundred years." It's a finished quote. This is what you're doing, Mr. Charcévich. There's a lot of those professors who follow this at the university. Those lesbians, thank you, there are those who will work. English philosopher Francis Bacon gave the knowledge a prominent place, so he says, Mr. President and Mr. Professors know it, and I quote: “Knowledge is power, a grain of knowledge is stronger than steel. ” It's a finished quote. Gentlemen, according to the old program, I'm really asking you to bring your torments to an end, which I'm undermining partly and partly other factors, I'm not going to talk about because I was talking about, noting that you are the generation that suffered the most after World War II. I can talk about it, if you want, all day long. We, gentlemen of the students, we professors who want to know your torments, and you gentlemen of the students of Belgrade, and you gentlemen of the students of Nis, and you students of Novi Sad, and you gentlemen of the students of Kragujevac, and you gentlemen of the students of Novi Pazar and those ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which you often forget, even some officials when they list from Pristina, based in Kosovo Mitrovica. Your troubles are also our troubles professor, not the state, but the university professor, the professors. They know if we're pedagogics, and most of them are, I say, the vast majority is because our call is very difficult, it's a pain in the ass. It is not easy to lead to the success of everyone, but of every student, but of every student, and only those who burn out of love for their calling. Since I quoted a Western one last time, now we're going to be Eastern, Russian, the great Russian pedagogogog Belinski said, quote - if I were born ten turkeys, you'd be a teacher ten times again because there's no more noble call than it is a teacher's. It's a finished quote. And our President, the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am sure and have made a proposal for an extension for two years, and I believe that the honourable MPs will also be for this extension of the study. Why gentlemen? We're in the socialist system, many of us are talking, and they don't know what it is, in the socialist system, we've been dealing with bad students and bad students, we've ignored advanced students, so we always have to pay more attention to the more advanced, because they depend on the fate of society. Therefore, gentlemen, bring your students to an end in order to please yourselves first, your parents, and some of your families, and I am sure our country of Serbia and most of us professors. Don't listen, gentlemen students, irresponsible people that it's always too late for you. That is what many say to you who do not want good for you, and are not pedagogists. Let me say that many important people of this planet have given their greatest results in the late years of life, but I stress, but again, it's perfectly normal to understand that the future belongs to young people. That's true, ladies and gentlemen. You gentlemen, I think now of all the students, by your efforts, by your work, by your perseverance, by my creation, and three times by training, you must mark the age in which you live in our country. There is no one else, gentlemen of the students, except you, but never, ever forget your country of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, MPs, science, philosophy and art, these three branches I list, do not recognize the division of young and old. You know that as well as the professors. There are countless scientists, artists and philosophers who, in their late years, created their most significant work. I'm just going to put it this way: Titian, in his 80th year of life, made his portrait, Bifon, in his 81st year of life in seven volumes, ended natural history, and Laplace ended up a celestial mechanic in his 80s, known to the philosophers and scientists of related sciences, Plato wrote laws in the 80s, and Immanuel Klant, in his 80s, ended religion within the limits of a simple mind. What is very important, gentlemen, is that you express your achievements, in addition to the rest, and protest against the end of history. That's what the great Philip Becker did. His name is related to the establishment of two international organisations, the League of Nations and the UN, and he was a sportsman, gentlemen athletes. The Olympics won the silver medal in 1920, at the 7th Olympics in the run at 1500m, distinguished professors and respected citizens. At the 11th Olympics in Berlin in 1936, he was not present for violating the Olympic Charter by Nazism and Hitler. This was done by our President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic at the Academy on the Day of Remembrance of the Lost Serbs in the 20th century, in Drvar on 13th and 14th September 2019, when he said, I quote - those who freed the premises of the former Yugoslavia suddenly became aggressors and fascists, while those who created Nazi states, became liberators, finished quote. Just then, along with his son Danil and a Serbian member of the BiH presidency, Mr Dodik visited the house of Gavril Principe in the village of Obljaj and on that occasion, I quote -- I am confident that the Serbian people will never forget the heroic work of Gabriel Principe, completed the quote. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will now show you how the list "Today" and "The Truthomer" falsify data from that National Assembly. I have to tell you that today's 13th and 14th of this month said when he spoke of me as being famous for it, I quote -- that in Serbia, time will be measured according to Alexander Vukic, the final quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will now read what I said in this high house, to see how our records are falsified. I said - I must say, dear Vice President, that with this statement, I will now disappoint our opposition MPs, to their misfortune, and fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that in 20 summers, time will be measured according to Alexander Vukic. This is because they constantly express their hatred for him, which is the time, this writes, and not what they say, before he came to power, and this is the time when the state was also a people, satanized, the state of government of DS, Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, when it was humiliated by economic, industrial, infrastructureally devastated, a country where there was enormous unemployment of 25.6%, a country with great overindebtedness, a country without hope and faith of its citizens in the future and a country before bankruptcy, a country with robbery privatisation and a time of arrival of Alexander Vukic at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state. It is 20 years or 20 years and is added further, a time of accelerated modernisation of Serbia, which is the time when we opened, it says exactly 138km of highways, 480km of state roads, 360km of local roads, rehabilitated and built 311 bridges, restored 360 schools and hospitals, opened over 80 plants in 130 cities of the Republic of Serbia, completed a quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is how they forge, there is no one who doesn't already speak, let them read economic magazines, only that, in economic magazines, the time has been measured for the past 20 years, before arrival and after arrival. And not just for him to forge. They don't fake this because of me, they know me very well, and at least because of some lyin' professor who doesn't have any political or earlier, you know very well, ambitions. You know why? For supporting Alexander Vukic. If Boris Tadic had done this to them, I would have given him support. That's where we're different from them. I never said Boris Tadic was my president, even though I sharply criticised him. It's different from them besides this, Mr. Vukic, which he's not just a politician, but also a statesman, what they weren't, a reformer, what they weren't, that I don't keep saying. So, I'm going to end this right now, this one more sentence. Gentlemen, educators, I congratulate you all “5. October" - Educational Workers' Day, with the desire to love and love the teacher's invitation, and you fellow students to finish your studies for these two years, because it's not the government of the Republic of Serbia, and to say it, not the Minister, but the universities, or colleges, and the programs are changing, you know very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60924	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60925	It's not easy to talk after a respected colleague, Mark Atlagic. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the relationship to this bill, the attitude towards the National Assembly, the attitude towards students, the attitude towards Serbian citizens, the MPs of the opposition's work have made it clear by who knows which time they did not come to today's session. To make things worse, some of them were in this building today, some held press conferences, some were even at a congregation restaurant downstairs, like Bosko Obradovic, probably hungry from that boycott, and that Zivkovic held a press conference and as he always beat up all sorts of nonsense at a press conference, with what he was particularly euphoric today, maybe he drank a little more, and now I don't know, and he even announced the arrest of Vukic. Now, if it wasn't funny, it would be sad. I guess it will sober up in the meantime, so it will realize that Serbia today is not Serbia from its time, it is not Serbia from the time of "Sablje" when he arrested tens of thousands of Serbian citizens. Fortunately, Serbia's citizens, the same Zoran Zivkovic, or anyone from that happy family, will never be able to arrest anyone again. Bosko again announced, i.e. supported some group of students who blocked the Rectorate and said that he was there today personally and thus recognised what we all already know that it is not a student protest, but is a simple political protest with exclusively political requirements and political goals, behind which it stands, namely Dragan Gilas and the Alliance for Serbia. I could understand that the demands of those students concerning some student issues, concerning student standards, concerning test deadlines or anything related to students, but I can't understand the request for a change in the finance minister. What does a student protest have to do with the finance minister? Here's what it looks like. Here it is, Zoran Lutovac, a student, apparently in front of the Rectorate, here is Marinika Tepic, a student probably, here is Bosko Obradović, a student, probably agreeing on exam deadlines here or I don't know what else they might be doing. And, Bosko says, how these students represent intellectual courage, I quote -- honesty, and how they defend academic honesty. Here's what it looks like in practice. Here, he had a bully here, I don't know if the camera can zoom in, a bully wrestling in the rectory with a young man. That bully's usually in charge of every one of their protests, he's always the first to fight. There's another picture, there's another bully. This is when they pushed a young man, a colleague, out of that room. So, all the intellectual elite itself and all the academic congratulation in action. What's also symptomatic, it's with everyone in voice today trying to construct some kind of an affair about arms exports. They tried to accuse Nebojsa Stefanovic, his father and Alexander Vukic of course, he is their daily target in this regard. It doesn't matter what's been denied at the same time by Krusik and by the Ministry of Defence and by all other competent institutions. It doesn't matter what was proven to be without any justification, it doesn't matter what the whole procedure was completely transparent, it doesn't matter that these malicious lies directly violate the defence, to say the power of Serbia and Serbia's defence industry. None of that matters to them, it's important to repeat a thousand times a lie, and then, after that, through their media, it goes on and on and on and on and on and on to achieve the effect that a thousand times a repeated lie becomes true. Well, it won't work this time. So, the only thing that matters is that at all costs and in every way, SNS and Aleksandar Vukic are attacked and that this is repeated on "N1" and on all their media. There you won't hear anything about highways, there you won't hear anything about investments, nothing about factories, you won't hear anything about an increase in public sector employees' salaries, you won't hear about pensions that will be increased, you won't hear about a single aid to pensioners now in December, you won't hear about an increase in the minimum wage of workers who will soon be twice as big, but during the time they've exercised power and all the other things that are important to the lives of citizens. None of them will notice that Vukic is the first Serbian president to tour four western municipalities in the Federation of BiH, where Serbs represent a vast majority, so Drvar, Grahovo, Glamoc and Petrovac a few days ago. Where are the Patriots from the Dvora now to welcome the help of the government that Wolfic took when he visited these four municipalities? What Mr. Martinovic says, they don't even know that there are those places on the map, they probably wouldn't know how to show those places. So where are they to welcome such a gesture, help for our people living in these four municipalities, which, after the Dayton Agreement, remained outside the Republic of Serbia. They could, but it was at a time when they played patriots, they could criticise the government that, behold, the government sleeps, Vukic sleeps, doesn't care about Serbs outside Serbia. And no one has ever visited them, the Wolf is the first to leave, to visit that people and to bring concrete help. I'd go for the very end of my esteemed colleague Atlagic, who was talking about this portal "The Truthomer", whose target is mostly all of us from the SNS. Professor, I've been on the wallpaper of this "Truthnomer" that I usually call "a liar", and I've even been named a liar of the year because I dared to say - Alexander Vukic isn't lying, nor was he lying. Afterwards, I proved that in my speech to be concrete. Because of that sentence, or because of the part of the sentence, I was declared a liar of the year by that "falsifter", and they say they're "Truth-timer". Now, imagine how much it hurts them, imagine how much they've had a problem with Alexander Vukic, when they were able to pronounce me a liar of the year. But, Professor, be proud that they attack you, as I am proud to be attacked by those who do not think well of the Serbian people or the Serbian state. As long as they attack us and Alexander Vukic, I'm sure Serbia is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60926	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60927	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the adoption of a law on the same subject before and in this term and we have passed such a law, and their application is, in fact, justified by the demands of citizens who have been addressed to you both to the Ministers and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to the People's MPs. The proposal refers to the regulation of student status and the deadline for completion of studies which have been initiated in accordance with the rules applicable before the entry into force of the Higher Education Act. So, the Higher Education Act, if we go back a little bit, which was brought back in 2005, has suffered certain changes, of course, the law that was passed in 2017 because of the situation where students are now going to have to endure certain changes. At a time when the law was passed in 2005, perhaps the provisions were not fully in line with the real states of things in colleges, perhaps criteria were set that were high, perhaps conditions were set that students could not meet, were not ready, simply to respond to such challenges. The November requirements now voiced the need to extend the deadline for completion of the study, as they had been studying for several years but failed to meet these criteria and meet the conditions set and in 2005. Because of the delicate situation, certainly where these students are located, the SNS parliamentary group will support this proposal. But I want to ask you something, Minister, we've already talked today about many colleges which are examples of good practice in the sense that they've already launched certain projects themselves so students can finish their colleges faster and get to those diplomas faster. I wanted to ask you, is it possible to do this in all colleges, all conditionally speaking, I mean in terms of those colleges where there are students waiting to pass this law and students who want to end up under the old program? So is it possible to organize something similar in all colleges, so that these students, regardless of whether these are personal reasons, professional, family and so on, we won't talk about these reasons, but they obviously have some problem with mastering materials with some professor, maybe with themselves? So I wanted to ask you, is it possible that in all colleges such projects are being organised? What I was about to say is, today we're witnessing a completely abnormal situation where so-called. Students from the organization, “One of the Five Million” keep under siege of the project building, do not let students or employees in, are visited only by their freelenders who show daily, in fact at this moment and in this particular situation and how badly they have a relationship with the education system. I wonder how low someone has to fall to put a tent in the rectory building and lie down there to make a cut. The question is again, what are their demands? Is it realistic for students to be replaced by a minister, and is it realistic to block the cabinet building? You know what students can look for. We've all studied more or less, we've all asked for new deadlines, we've all asked to reduce their tuition who paid tuition, we've all asked for an extension of studies, etc. These are just political demands, these are just pressures being put on power, unfortunately, by abuse of students and abuse of very important institutions. So in 2017, after the presidential elections, they are the same as you from, he doesn't know, "One of the five million" or "We're not drowning Belgrade", various yellow ducks, etc. said the protests were student, that the protests of social nature were not student at the time, were political at the time with a demand for the elections to be annulled, because of course Aleksandar Vukic won in the presidential elections. So it's very clear what this is all about. This is about an anarchy, it's about abuse of students and universities in the interest of a political option, and then we have one, as I have already said an abnormal situation and I stand behind what I said about students standing outside the building and standing employees who can't enter the building, and there are representatives of one part of the opposition in the directory building are politicians, such as Marinika Tepic, such as Lutovac, such as Bosko Obradović, and today he walked to the Rectorate, etc., such as the leaders of an organisation whose operation is exclusively political. I am calling on them to return to the streets from which they entered the Dictionary, because apparently that street policy is much better for them than for them to be in any part of the university or recession, and with their colleagues and colleagues I will support this bill as an idea that people who want to school in this country will remain in this country to support themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60928	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60929	To give you a brief answer, of course that depends primarily on every higher school institution, and on the other hand, on student parliaments, and I keep reminding them that they have certain rights that should be used better. I told you already last time here that the Law on Student Organization was over and it was supposed to be in parliament last week, but there are still some agreements with the Ministry of Finance. So, some next time, I'm gonna go in here with the students because I have to defend that law, too, but we did it together. So there's all kinds of rights here and there's this right. So they can demand it, so they can do it. Where it's not a good relationship with a student student student, and I think most high school institutions will. So, at least I haven't gotten any information yet except for those who are in some kind of labor obstruction, because they don't communicate with us as if they're members of another country, and the problems they're creating, I don't want to bring it up because it turns out I'm doing it now on purpose because they're in a world of their own. I think it's going to be a success and that both the professors and the deans are going to want it all done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60930	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60931	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens, today's speech will actually begin with a critical reference to the representatives of the so-called The opposition advocates fair and fair elections in foreign paid media. I have to wonder if the representatives of the so-called. The opposition knows exactly what the word "honest" means. The word honesty is synonym for honesty, self-awareness, morality, and not corruption. It is fair that those who have damaged our budget over five hundred million, through the construction of a 400 million bridge and the purchase of television for the work of their own promotion and advertising. The word honesty has been used by those who have been the subject of processing the American intelligence community for a long time and footage from a delicate apartment at the Valdrof Hotel in London, where various compromising materials have been collected by Mr. Jeremic, where it is stated that there is a special material about his deviating behavior. I'm sorry, I'm really upset about this. The word of honesty is used by those who led a crisis group that fell into Jugopetrol in 2000, took over power from energy giants and acquired securities. Yes, well-respected citizens, it was Mr. Vuk Jeremic. For honesty and honesty, those who want to step on their own people, protest participants and police representatives who are there to protect the people from themselves in such protests. Mr. Obradovic demanded something from us who lost his parliamentary group, who lost his membership by breaking into RTS and urging innocent children and citizens to threaten, break motor saws and smash. Gentlemen and gentlemen dear, the word fair and honest serve those who have a fair and fair relationship with the people. Honesty means example, purity, face, regularity, incompetence, and she, unfortunately, is what you don't have, because actions always say more than words. Your spoken sentence, the success of the boycott will not be measured by the turnout of the people is merely a reflection of your impotence, because how else can you implement your ideas without the support of the people? So your idea is that you're going to stand up for your ideas without the support of the people, don't you even care what our people think of your moves? Such a statement is only your confirmation that you people are experiencing slavery and that you consider the people simply to belong to you. Our President, Mr. Aleksandra Vukic, has taught us first and foremost moral support for power, and not to discover that there is no government at all, thanks to your past while you ruled. Our president has been chosen by the collective will of the people despite my bitterness, the anxiety I have already mentioned that I feel this kind of exposure, the SNS, our president is imperative to try to work and build even more, to raise wages in the fields of education, health, culture, to build roads and further, to open new factories and new jobs, to build hospitals, even stronger and without hesitation. I, as a People's MP, want to thank our people for their support and understanding, for giving strength and wind in the back, despite everything they want to bring us down, but you can't wipe out and tear down everything we've done and what we've just planned. In particular, in the municipality from which I come, which is the Municipality of Savski Venac, I am proud of the magnificent edition of "Beograda na Voda", the reconstruction of the Palace of Justice, which looks better than ever, we have renovated schools and kindergartens, arranged parks, new magnificent buildings are being built in Knez Miloša and Sarajevo Street, in Senjak and Dedinj, thanks to foreign investments. We are reconstructing the Sava Square, Karadjordjeva Street, which is finished, we are doing many other projects. I also thank our management of the Sava Venac municipality, namely our President Irena Vujović, for making our municipality more beautiful and neater than ever. (The Faith of Radeta: And as for the students we speak of today?) Now we're going back to the students, anyway, and that's the theme of today, so don't worry about anything, Mrs. Verice. Our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, does not deviate from the responsibility he has accepted and does not wish to betray our citizens. In our Serbia, it has never worked and been built again, and these are the only arguments we keep showing, and we are not just talking. We're looking for a way to talk to the so-called. By opposition, but we won't and can't speak of lies, untruths and their pointless demands, of those whom the will of the people doesn't interest at all. As for today's Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, I fully support it because this gave our students the opportunity to re-enlarge the deadline for the next two years. With this amendment and the addition of the law, we have shown that we understand and we want to help our students who have enrolled in the studies in 2005. We are aware that our students were forced to pause their studies, but at the same time I am asking our dear students this way, because as a member of the Education Committee, I have received a lot of requests for an extension of the deadline for completion of the study, to make an effort and to complete the studies for us and for themselves. We have indeed taken into account all your troubles, and I thank you, above all, and our minister, Mr. Sarčević, who has also taken your problems into account and supported this decision. We want our students to learn happily and very quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60932	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60933	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Citizens, today we have a Law in the field of education in front of us again. As we have already learned about the extension of the deadline for the completion of the study for students according to the start of the curricula and the programme for the next two years. It is important to create educated people and raise the level of education of our people. The value of intellectual capital is the main choice of success in the ruthless market and the basis is without which it is almost impossible to implement the progress and reforms carried out by the Serbian Government and President Aleksandar Vukic, because the fact is that reforms of the education system are being implemented precisely in order to improve and improve education, so highly educated people are of great importance to our country, which is the attitude of the SNS. Students often suffer the consequences of various life problems, but then they need to be relieved and helped to continue their course. Create a community that will give young people a chance and keep them in our country. They should be motivated because educated, quality personnel will speed up the process of developing Serbia's overall economy with their ability, creativity and knowledge. In addition to this, I will read a short message from a student who says – support us, we are no harm to anyone, we are no one's expense, we learn, we work, we protect families, we regularly settle our financial obligations to colleges, we respect the Constitution of our country and we want to stay in our country with our families. It is precisely these few sentences that describe the reasons why I will always support such students and which is why I am pleased to support this bill and anyone who will facilitate schooling. Students who enrolled studies in Bologna also started sending us e-mails and bringing up their problems and why they couldn't finish colleges within hours. I'm trying to make it easier for them to get together and study. However, I must look back and say that for every conviction, the blockage of the Belgrade University's Rectorate building is because it is abuse of students, abuse of the Serbian elite for political purposes. This is a modern Serbia in which it is not forbidden to express its opinion, but it is not allowed to carry out a dictatorship conducted by several Gilas mercenaries. Disabling the work of staff in the Rectorate and jeopardising the interests of students and professors is embarrassing and shows the impotence of the opposition. In a few months, they will have the opportunity to go to elections where we will see who the Serbian citizens trust. We'll continue with serious work. We want strong Serbia. Our government and president, Aleksandar Vukic, are really making a huge effort to make progress in all areas. So I will support any change that will bring us a better life. I want our students to be persistent in achieving their goals, and I want you, dear Minister, to have further success in the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60934	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60935	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Namely, what's this about? A group of students who entered the university on 10 September 2005 and didn't graduate from college within the deadline, so we extended one deadline, and yet she did not finish for who knows what justified reasons, she asked us to move that deadline in two years and we will be happy to do so. During the debate, and here we are talking for sure for five, six hours, I haven't heard a single negative opinion, which is very good. Everyone has their own cross, you never know why anyone couldn't finish college in time. After all, college has never been a measure of intelligence but of perseverance. Exactly, the government of the Republic of Serbia, its goal is education, education for the 21st century. We need to make kids who can think, who will be team players, we don't need reproductive knowledge. Reproductive knowledge is the past, we need team players, 21st century players, we need IT technology. That's what we do. That's why the large amount of money has just been invested in education. That's what we need. Remember the cries we had when we talked about dual education, in 2017, we passed that law. What's the matter? The pilot project, 500 students, 40 companies, went well. 22 other companies and 500 other high school students reported immediately. Fantastic! Today we have 69 cities, nearly 6,000 students, over 1,000 companies. That is how it is done, so full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we need applicable knowledge. So we need to connect education and companies. We don't need more, college graduates, reproductive skills, and what it takes another six months, a year, a lot of money, to get him into the process, into the workplace. It is good that we will extend to students who have prayed to extend their deadline of study, have not completed university 2018/2019 – we will complete it, we will extend it for two years – 2020/2021, this is true, also for future magistrates, but also for PhDs. What is more important, it should be pointed out, and the subject of this law is that medical science students have asked for the deadline to be extended to them, since their deadline was longer for a year, their deadline is now in place of 2021 to 2022. I'm looking forward to being part of the team that's voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60936	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60937	Thank you. Aleksandar Vukic's and SNS' policies are based on the knowledge, work and prosperity of its citizens. Of course, in the focus of SNS policy and the idea promoted by Aleksandar Vucic, it is the citizen and the protection of his best interest, as well as the exit to the meeting of state authorities, institutions, to improve the quality of life of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education in the focus of this law is for students who have not completed their studies, i.e. who entered studies by 10 September 2005. They were due to finish by 2011. For various life reasons, for reasons we don't even have to go in, but they didn't finish the studies until then, they didn't finish master studies, they didn't finish doctoral studies, and that's all the reason to give them a chance to finish their studies in the next two years. Knowledge is power, and every advanced economy, and Serbia, thanks to the fiscal consolidation it has carried out since 2014, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, his economy is based on sound foundations, but every economy is also based on the growth and development that stems from knowledge. I must point out that, in the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, reforms have been carried out and how significant. First of all, I want to point out as one of the most important reforms in the education and education system, which is dual education, that is to gain power for the student and student to manage their knowledge to produce a service, to produce a product, to be competitive on the market. This is, of course, the possibility of developing new products through various scientific and research projects and of moving forward with modern achievements in the world in general, to move forward with modern achievements in the economy at global level. Also, I would like to stress the high credit of the Ministry for returning to primary and secondary school. The education was something that had been missing for many years and had been thrown out of school by some saber, especially in the period until 2012. The school must love itself, except for education, based on education. Of course, education is not something that only schools should do, but legal regulation is fantastic, you have established order through connection and with parents, by connecting with other institutions at local level, and you are trying to restore that very important role that schools should play, and that is a educational role. I would also like to stress that large funds have been invested in the development of infrastructure since 2014 when it comes to primary schools and pre-school institutions and higher education institutions. 150m euros have been invested to restore 128 schools, reconstruction in line with the highest standards concerning energy efficiency, and all in order to create the most favourable conditions for learning and working both children and teachers. Two such schools are also located in Priboj, the municipality from which I come. It is the "Desanka Maksimovic" OS, which has been fully reconstructed and the High-Lesco-Electrotechnical School. Of course, thanks to the economic progress and development of the Republic of Serbia since 2014, thanks to a decrease in public debt, thanks to real budget planning, there have been conditions for increased wages in this sector, i.e. in all sectors from 8% to 15%. Among other things, it will be a sector related to both education and science and research. As for these political activists who have closed themselves in the Rectory, I must point out that in fact, political activists Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Obradovic, those of the same representatives of the yellow tycoon company, who in 10 years of government robbed Serbian citizens of over 100 billion euros. Only Dragan Gilas, acting as public authority, has earned a 619m-euro income for four of his companies, and net income is 105m euros. Well, where is it that someone, doing public functions, gets rich? There is in Dragan Gilas, for he goes out of the parole. The worse the people, the better for him. Of course, these protests are based on violence and violence is something we absolutely do not justify. It is about the abuse of a minority, to ban the fundamental rights of most, both teachers and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60938	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60939	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. I just wanted to remind the MPs that we are talking about a bill on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. For several hours, following the work here, I had the impression that some MPs had mixed the papers, that they were talking about another topic. Some about what was Friday, so they used that paper, some about something that would only be within this budget rebalance, etc. Of course, we don't mind the width in the debate. On the contrary, that's what we always stand for, but somehow it would be appropriate, I don't know if it's continued transmission, because we've been on the air for a long time, but if we are and if one of these interested people is watching this session, and all students who expect to extend their deadline for completion of the study are interested. I'm thinking of these Bolons and these so-called. Old students. People will get the impression that it's not on the agenda at all, that there's a whole dozen things going on here. Here, praise Minister Sarčević for changing his opinion within 20 days from – there is no way to extend the deadline to – here, the extension of the deadline. You have something to brag about, but give through the debate at least some indication that this is about this bill. Take a good look at those papers you're reading from, see exactly what it says. And now I'm going to take advantage of it and remind myself that through this law, we're asking to extend the deadline for the Bologna students and to extend the deadline for completing these so-called studies indefinitely. Old students. Thank you. I'm not asking that the National Assembly be declared in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60940	You don't ask the National Assembly to plead because I would then answer to your violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have also used your political stances to injure the Rules of Procedure, as well as fellow MPs to say something that is politically current at the moment, other than deadlines to extend the study of a group of students. Let's get on with the list. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60941	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, I support the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education which will extend the right for students, old students to continue their studies in the coming years. I support it because the benefits of passing this law will be far greater and more significant, and if we hadn't passed the law, that is, if we hadn't passed it, then the injustice would have been huge. Also, I support the initiative that the minister enlighten to recommend to universities, universities, i.e. higher education institutions and students who are subject to the Bologna education system, to also enable, i.e. It extends the deadlines and allows for further education for a simple reason, so that they would not now be in an unequal position compared to the old students. I support Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's view that he does not meet the requirements of a group of students blocking the Belgrade University Rectorate with some political demands. So, I support her not to comply with their request because the Secretary of Finance's shift is certainly not a student request. It's a purely political requirement. Unfortunately, the group of students succumbed to pressures and political manipulation, primarily from those who led them back and forth in the walks and protests of Belgrade streets, succumbed to the pressures and influences of Sergey Trifunovic, Jova Bakic, Bosko Obradovic. I feel sorry for these people. I feel sorry for those young students. I think they're making a big mistake. Just a few days before their incursion and blocking the Rectory here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had a wonderful event, the promotion of young officers, the youngest officers of the Serbian Army, where 160 of the youngest officers were promoted to the rank of supporters. Until that day, all students of the University of Defence, students of the Military Academy, were present. The medical college of VMA and that day were promoted, became officers, promoted to the rank of supporter. Serbia's pride. What else to say. The most beautiful part of Serbia. All other students should look up to them, their hard work and their responsibility. Imagine, if you could imagine that a group of these students at the University of Defense gathered and took over, say, the Department of Defense Dictionary, or let's say they took over the VMA. They have their own conditions. Can you even imagine something like that? And that we don't go any further in conjecture. I think those students who blocked the Belgrade University Rectorate are making a huge mistake, that they should leave the Committee's premises and make it possible for the rector to work and other staff employed. Minister, I think that example, Mr. Minister, I think that the example that the University of Nis Faculty of Economics did when it allowed its old students, an organized action to pass a number of exams and to reach a diploma, could be a good example for our entire higher education. I think other universities should be organised in a similar way. I will certainly support these bill proposals of yours, because they are good, and I call on all other MPs to also support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60942	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60943	I would like to thank, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, the Honorable People's MPs. In order to enable students who had enrolled in studies by 10 September 2005 to complete their studies, the need for an amendment to the work of the Higher Education Act has emerged. The draft law lays down new deadlines for completion of the study until the end of the school 2020/2021. A year. Thus it will be possible for students to be enrolled in primary studies and studies at higher schools, in master's studies, as well as registered for doctoral dissertation to end up in the old curricula and program. The reasons why the students found themselves in this situation are numerous. Life in difficult conditions, refugees, disabled people, displaced persons, people who learn by work, poor material status. It wasn't easy for someone who worked to support their family to learn at the same time. It is the same with those who have been expelled from their eternal hearths, and families divided or distracted, to learn and give their exams in time. It wasn't easy for those with sick family members either. It is the same with disabled persons who surely have to learn longer and harder to achieve success, and it is often due to poor material status. Desires, possibilities, and reality are something that couldn't match at the same time. These are the reasons why these young people stayed with several exams for the rest of their studies. All this led to the impasse and extension of the study, and the desire of every young man is to teach, perfect, round and complete his knowledge and one day be an expert in his field, so they had to ask the ministry to extend the deadlines for the exams, i.e. for the completion of the study. In this way, they are given a chance to have a future and to realize the initial study in which they have invested effort, pawnage, and time. Tomorrow, these people will benefit Serbia, precisely because of the growing inflow of investments, the growing needs of the market, the investment of foreign companies that are looking for our experts. It's important that we have as many highly educated people as possible. Serbia is the country with the largest inflow of investments in the region. 3.2 billion euros were invested in Serbia in 2018. There are more and more companies that come to our country because of good infrastructure and good quality conditions and are looking for our professional staff, because they have had experience with our experts, and they are very pleased with them. That's why every student is important to us in educational space and significant. The state should have as many experts as possible and encourage education, which is what this government does. Serbia should further develop its potential and compete in knowledge and success with other countries. Serbia is developing all its potential. We are a land of worthy and intelligent men. Humans are our largest and richest resource, the incredible and unsustainable potential through which knowledge and power are reflected, economic development. This must be emphasized, which must be taken into special care. This government recognized it, so every man is important to us, to every student who will have a chance to work tomorrow and do something for his country, to make a contribution. Only in this way does Serbia go safely into the future, into new challenges, with more educated people who can be more ready and secure to tackle challenges and open new perspectives for Serbia. In voting day, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60944	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, buddy. Six minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60945	Thank you, Chairman. We'll blend in briefly. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, respected ministers, we already spoke on this subject last year, i.e. the topic of extending the deadlines for the completion of the studies to students who had enrolled in the so-called "Students". ‘old programme’. According to some preliminary data, about 1,000 people completed their studies during that period. But I wouldn't exactly say that we can talk about it as a regular number. In fact, it is a matter of life and the fate of those thousands of people, that is, those thousands of families. For many of them is probably one of the breaking moments in their lives and work. The fact is that a few thousand more people are in such a divide, that is, in that race with time, with the desire to complete the studies, and on that side I think we should give them support. A team before I think that we should not as a society allow ourselves the luxury that, at a time when the fact is a good part of educated people goes abroad, that because of some of our obstacles and administrative ones, let me say, we lose a few thousand potentially highly educated people. Also, we SNS MPs are those who appreciate work and effort, those who appreciate the desire and those people to finish the job and spread their knowledge. As we appreciate, respected ministers, and your work on the work of modernising Serbian education, as we appreciate and work, if, after all, you will, and the Minister of Finance to establish stability in public finances, as we appreciate the work and effort of Prime Minister Brnabic, who is also the most responsible for implementing what the government has drawn in the day of their election and, in the end, as we appreciate the work and efforts of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and all that he has done in recent years, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to our people in the Balkans in general, as we appreciate and the work and effort in everything he does for Drvar, Grahovo, Mostar, Glamoc and all the pollution in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all that he does for each of the municipalities individually in Republika Srpska. The fact is that some higher education institutions are beginning to use as a polygon for political action, but, above all, for political violence. Now, that's what we don't appreciate and we don't support. We know very well who it's about. These are the popular opposition leaders of Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, and we also know they have very powerful allies. Their advisers are mostly those who are mostly outside Serbia's borders today. Do you need greater proof of this than if you send out the Sarajevo, Pristina, Zagreb media these days, you will see that they are faithful allies and these men of the opposition and allies of the work they do. I think that says it in itself enough and there's nothing further to explain in that sense. However, honourable ministers, both you and the government and the president be assured, you have faithful allies. Your allies are us, the people's representatives in this distinguished home and your ally is a people in Serbia and, if you will, our people in the region. We will stand firm behind what you and the president of the state are doing, and we also ask that because of this strong alliance that has also the SNS with the people of Serbia, hold back in your work and resist all the pressures that are coming these days, both towards the President of the State and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we will also support this legislative proposal that you are proposing, the honourable ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-17-1.u60946	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Since no one's answering, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
