ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert the cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55811	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask one question concerning the anatomy of a national agricultural land robbery in the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question of the Minister for Agriculture – how much did the Republic of Serbia own state agricultural land in 2000, and how many in municipalities and cities today? First of all, there's deep-root crime in this area. The tycoons, as well as foreigners, have robbed Serbia in such a way that they have been able to illegally reach huge areas of agricultural land and today they, above all, own Serbian agricultural land without individual agricultural producers being able to come to the lease of state agricultural land. How is it possible for a tycoon to take 2,000 acres of state land for lease and that young people, who need to stay in the country and who are asked to be leased with the right to repurchase state agricultural land, cannot come to this because of various malversions and crime in this area at the level of each municipality and at the level of each city? How is it possible that the company Almeks from Pančev privatised and managed to buy 2,500 hectares in a plot of state agricultural land without other citizens and other participants who were interested? The question arises – how is it possible for Croatian tycoons in the Republic of Serbia to take so much land and buy, without our citizens in Croatia being able to reach a single square metre, buy and create any object or open agricultural good? So the question is, how do cities and municipalities rent state agricultural land? Do individual tycoons, which from Subotica to Vranja, have farms, carry cattle from Backa to Banat to get their cattle listed and thus get the right to buy state agricultural land across borders? Is it true that the lease of state agricultural land is divided into an initial price and is given to tycoons for 200 euros per hectare and that half a hectare between individual agricultural producers, ladies and gentlemen, costs 200 to 250 euros? Therefore, the question arises – how many individual agricultural producers have managed to obtain in municipalities and cities, where, above all, the surface area of the state agricultural land, who owns and who robs and who pays? Is it true that those who take thousands and thousands of hectares of state agricultural land do not pay regular rent and thus harm the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, it should be borne in mind that young people want to stay in the country and want to borrow state land, but they can't come to it because they have a lot of tycoons and criminals. From 2000 to today, no one's been arrested. This mob with state agricultural land needs to be arrested as soon as possible, a list of who took the land, on which legal basis, and that review is being carried out, because it is of general interest to our individual agricultural producers. I note once again that young people want to stay in the country, but they do not have the opportunity to reach land, when it comes to renting state land. What I would also like to say is that the land of Belgrade's Agricultural Combined is sold at higher prices than it was bought. Is it... (President: Dear Messenger, your time is up. )......................................................................................................... Is that true, or are those just stories? It's for discussion now. So I think we need to review these agricultural goods, PIC Tamis Panchevo, Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica. They were giants, but as you can see, robbery, and thieves aren't in jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55812	Thank you. Is anyone else checking in? (No) I ask the MPs to sign up so I can hold a session, because I have no one on the screen, so everyone who intends to ask a question. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55813	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the first question is about Vuk Jeremic. So, is it true that Vuk Jeremic, in the period from April 2008 to 2012, paid $2,369,680 for lobbying services to various American agencies through the embassy of the Republic of Serbia, Washington, totalling $2,369,680, among them the famous Podesta group. The contract was signed by Mirko Stefanovic. I've been asking around a little bit. The signer was Vuk Jeremic and was then the secretary general of the foreign ministry Mirko Stefanovic. I've been asking around. Mirko Stefanovic is the uncle of Borko Stefanovic, so in this regard - were there any nepotisms, and this kind of nepotism is considered white corruption? So, is it true that for unknown services, and I believe it was a later campaign by Vuk Jeremic, two million $369,680 in the period 2008. - 2012, 2013? Also, in this regard, this is the cover of the 2010 Express. So is it true, or is it possible that Vuk Jeremic paid lobbying services against the Serbian state? I hold "Express", a Kosovo magazine, which on July 23rd 2010 on the front page thanks Vuk Jeremic – "Thank you Vuke", which is how the Albanians write about it and I want to know about it - why did Vuk Jeremic spend the money of Serbian citizens? Does this have anything to do with lobbying maybe for an Albanian thing? So why should Albanians thank him the day after the International Court of Justice's opinion in The Hague? Also, my question concerns the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Trade, REM, Ratel and the Competition Protection Commission. In public, the story was that Top TV changed its name to "New S". It's a television that I don't mind airing whatever it wants, as well as N1 television. Is it true that she's not registered as a domestic media? They say they just changed their name. But he's not in the register of electronic media. No "New", no N1, no sports clubs. So is "New S" registered as domestic media? If not, does he pay his broadcasting fee or is it considered cross-border television? If viewed as cross-border television, I ask the competent ministries, Ratel and REM to determine whether they are broadcasting, since there are indications that they are registered in Luxembourg, do they re-emission a programme from Luxembourg, which they have the right under the law, or are they recasting and making a new programme in Belgrade, inserting ads and thereby further jeopardising domestic media that are registered? So, from the district of my jurisdiction, that the Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Culture, REM, Ratel and the Competition Protection Commission respond to me - whether this creates unfair competition, pirate media, black-working media, and domestic media. Otherwise, I underline again, I don't mind what Olja Bećković is doing, I don't mind what Ivan Ivanovic is doing, what N1 TV is doing and "Nova". The only thing that bothers me is that they're not registered, like electronic media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55814	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55815	I thank the chairman. I refer the first question to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, or Minister Zorani Mihajlovic. The issue concerns the plan to build rain sewers and control existing works to build a sewage network in Serbia. Taking into account the many problems that are growing year after year, it would not be bad for the ministry that has jurisdiction and infrastructure issues to really pay attention to where solving the problem is urgent and to help that local self-government that needs help at the moment, but to check the quality of work on current or newly completed works. I'm going to take an example of two city halls in Belgrade. It's the city hall of Zemun and the town hall of Palilu. Currently, work is being done in Zemun to build a sewage network in the village of Batajnica. I went through these papers yesterday, and there's no information on the boards that it's a rain drain, and according to the diameter of the pipes on the site, I'd say it's just a fecal sewer, which will say that these works will not solve the flood problem that occurred in the middle of a lot of rainfalls, because they're not even supposed to solve this problem. Yesterday, the president of the city municipality of Palilula, Mr. Jovicic, explained in a statement to the RTS, that the problem would be solved when households in the flooded areas of Borca with septic caves join the sewers, again saying that he still does not understand that fecal sewerage and rain canalisation do not have the same purpose and that if what happens to the president of the state, who is also not in charge, what he announced, as a tour of the flooded settlements in this municipality, that works on the construction of the sewers network in Borca are moving in the spring, this problem will also not be solved. I appeal to the ministry to exercise the necessary control because they cannot make decisions on such issues that they end up investing funds from the budget in something that we know in the beginning that they will not work and that we repeat these same works in a few years. I suppose one of my answers might be that this question is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, which it is. However, the problem is not naive, it is decades-old and it seems to me that this is the right time for the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure to finally get involved, to finally examine the competences of local self-government and to resolve this issue once and for all. I also urge that in December, or November, when we discuss the budget for the coming year, we allocate far more serious funds than we have set aside so far to protect against floods, whether they are caused by lush waters, whether they are caused by heavy rainfalls. The second question I refer to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Rasim Ljajic, and I must say that I was inspired by this morning's text that appeared on N1, which says that according to the survey, as many as 92.7% of Serbian high school students had experience with alcohol by 18 years of age, and 69.5% of them drank or had little experience of drinking. This research was conducted by the Special Hospital for Disease Dependence from Novi Sad, Vita. What is alarming is this: alcohol is more regularly consumed by 58.5% of high school students, by the time you go to town on weekends, and the first alcohol contact in about 60% of the cases young people had in the peer society, while 40% of the alcohol was first tried within the family. The study was conducted on a sample of 480 students and what is scariest, these students are second and third grade students. The question for Dr Ljajic is whether alcohol sales to minors are being controlled, and I really ask him, this ministry, and it does not have to be within 15 days, to report on the control of the sale of alcohol to minors, and in what way have the penalties been imposed on those who sell? The same issue is also a question for the Minister of Health – what is the plan for preventing juvenile alcoholism in our country given the culture of drinking in our society in and on these alarming data that I have previously read? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55816	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55817	Thank you. My first question goes to the address of the interior ministry and Mr Stefanovic. I ask Mr Stefanovic – did the ministry, or did the police, already take action or intend to take action at the moment while we are here talking about the incident that took place yesterday in Sapac when they were attacked and brutally insulted by the activists of an opposition party who had its own scheduled meeting of the initial committee in that city? It's not the first time, unfortunately, that such things happen in Capco. I think it's terribly bad and terribly dangerous, regardless of which parties, which activists are involved. The story of how angry citizens don't want to suffer in their city, I don't know who, is simply not only demagogue, but dangerous, harmful, and that we don't lie, and if I'm not happy to use that word, it's really breaking up a set of political opponents, distracting, not allowing groups of political opponents is some kind of fascism. So it is one of the elements of fascism. Both the government and the opposition often use that term to honor each other. I think it's very dangerous, I believe that someone serious, as Fascism said in Serbia is still missing, but when a lot of talk is made about it and when they tolerate such and similar things, anything can happen. We don't care about our fellow Members, these shifts in the work of the organisation and the work of Parliament. It's a free story of economic progress, GDP growth, and the like, and the creation of an investment climate, if violence is right in our streets. I reiterate, I would react equally if it were an attack on the ruling party activists or some parties of the ruling coalition. It is something that must not be related, which must not be tolerated, and therefore I expected the interior ministry and Minister Stefanovic to react to. As soon as we see how the authorities, i.e. the police, reacted without delay and brought to jail in the early mornings of the vice president of one of the other opposition parties to a hearing in Panchevo, which he allegedly did not respond to calls for a hearing. Again, whoever it is, if it's not about the hardest criminals, drug dealers and potential terrorists, there's no excuse to bring people in for a simple conversation by breaking into their apartments at five, six o'clock in the morning, because they're being arrested as the worst criminals, completely independent of who they're talking about. My second question goes to the address of Minister Sinisha Malo and Vanje Udovici, because he is formally the president of the task force. It is a working group for what is said to be the formation of a national stadium that was to be formed at the previous cabinet session. I don't know if this working group has been formed, but I also appeal to the Prime Minister and the one who decides about everything, and of course also to the president and vice president and the alleged working group, Sinisha Malo and Vanju Udovic, that in this situation, regardless of what we all love sports and especially football, even when we're doing badly, they don't spend money on huge funds, hundreds of millions of euros on building something that is a luxury, especially as it is about football stadiums that cost one estimate for national160 million euros. In some other calculations, up to 250m euros go. The moment that literally Serbia is destroyed, destroyed by the city, in moments when we see that half of Belgrade is submerged by rainfall, that the sewerage has poured out across the capital, so at that moment, really or in a situation where we have such a situation, it is illusory and I think it is unnecessary and harmful, unsatisfactory and untasteful to spend money, budget money on building a stadium. A team before, our league games watch barely a few, about three thousand people on average watch national league games. The team's games are looking at about 10.11 grand, and we're announcing a stadium for 50.60 thousand viewers. We'd have more questions, of course, but if I don't, please, expect and appeal to power, you might be able to record some points by giving it up, but still who's making points, it's important to me to get rid of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55818	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55819	Dear President, I am asking the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia - why the Prosecutor's Office did not initiate criminal proceedings against, for the third time, Professor Jova Bakic, who committed crimes against the country's constitutional order, Articles 305 to 321. Serbia's criminal law? Dear People's MPs, at a time when our President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, makes superhuman efforts to find a lasting, fair and compromise solution for our southern Serbian province of KIM, until for the third time the doctor, Dr. Jovo Bakic, constantly commits crimes. So in 13.6.09., for the third time, docent Dr. Jovo Bakic told reporters of a week about the invasion of the Alliance for Serbia into RTS, I quote - be careful, they had long pipes and let them get into RTS, you go there and then your colleagues point a long pipe in the head and say - read the prepared text, we have just taken over, you have done nothing, if you have not connected the leading politicians, finished the quote. So he calls for the violent takeover of power. For the third time, Dr. Bakic is like a real professional psychopath on 10th and then 13th of 6th of August, I quote - I'd like to chase them, I'd like to chase them in the streets. A journalist - it's a revolution. That's right, said Bakic and added - October 5th were two deaths, some got beat up and now they're going to get ugly beatings, finished quote. For the third time, doctor Jovo Bakic is daily muddying President Vukic, his family, his associates, such as Dr Neboja Stefanovic. In 15.1.2015, Dr Bakic said, when President Aleksandra Vukic was invited to a TV duel, he could take the Mali and Snotty with him, a quote was completed. For the third time, Dr Jovo Bakic told the president of the Republic of Serbia in 17.1.2014, quote - Vucic is a garbage man, Angela Merkel, finished quote. It's just like I would say for the third time, doctor Jovo Bakic is a bullshitter, Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. For the third time, doctor Bakic gave students the master theme titled "The Role of "Pinka" and "The Happy" in the creation and reproduction of the leaders' cults and analysis of the content of the guesting of Aleksandar Vucic in the "Trust Word" and "Cirilica", completed the quote. Is that respected gentlemen, meddling politics in the teaching process? What's the Dean of Philosopher's College doing? It is as if I have given students the master's theme - the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual prosacularism and scientific diletarianism and an analysis of the elections in calling for the third time, professor of Dr Jova Bakic. The moral gromada for the third time, Dr Jovo Bakic, told the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs, and thus for the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I quote - that's the barn, and the parliamentary intellectual and moral value is flat zero, the quote is completed. For the third time, docent Dr Jovo Bakic from day to day in the most terrestrial way, that the bottom of the kacee spread lies about President Vukic so he says without shame and shame, quote - Vukic has friends who trade in drugs and he sets up state affairs for them, finished quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, Professor Jovo Bakic, a professional psychopath tried to criminalise the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, first through the regime in Montenegro and in the story of Darka Saric, and then moved on to the domestic subjects he found in President's close associates, Nebojsa Stefanovic and others, President's brother Andrej and 20-year-old son Danil. When the third time doctor Jovo Bakic and similar to him are put in the shoes of President Aleksandar Vukic, his associates and his family, who we are used to unfairly suffering from lies, inventions from the bottom of the snake, professional, deformed lunatics such as the professor for the third time and like Jovo Bakic, they will not be able to get a significant role in the public scene, nor to teach students at the Faculty of Philosophy. I call on the Prosecutor's Office to analyse public appearances for the third time by doctor Jova Bakic and propose measures according to the Criminal Code, Article 305 to 321. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the meeting of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been requested to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that law. This is determined by the following Dn e n e r e d: Proposal for a Law on Science and Research; 2. Proposal for a law establishing public interest and special procedures for the realisation of the Project and the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the highway E-761, the Pojate-Preljina share; 3. Proposal for a law on municipal militia and, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the session of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mladen Sarcevic, as well as his associates at the Ministry. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law on the science of research. I give my word to the president, Minister Mladen Sarčević, to address us. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55821	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, respected colleagues from the Ministry of Education, Science and Research? The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, taking into account a number of and accumulated problems, as well as the fact that the vast majority of researchers in the community are unhappy with the existing legal framework, decided to schedule a complete reform of the system of funding scientific research, a transition from a failed funding project to institutional core project financing. The launch of a project call by similar rules that have been in place so far would not bring us anything new, more or less would be happening in the past decades, each of the researchers would be only dealing with the topics he wanted to deal with, mainly with the same researchers with potentially slightly divided roles. We had a system in which no one was fully satisfied, and at least the state was some sort of quasi institutional or quasi project model. The first concrete step is in this reform has already been made. Here at the National Assembly in early December 2018, the Science Fund Act was adopted. It's a new law for a new institution that exists in all serious countries that have developed science. The Fund Act is the first new law passed in this area after 12 years straight. The main intention is to complete procedures and manage competent project calls through the Science Fund. Meanwhile, an acting director, the Management Board, as well as the Science Council of the Fund, was elected. The first call for excellent projects by young researchers was already launched on 21 June, with a reputation for the prestigious European Commission's calls. The call is for those researchers who have not been able to be project managers in the past 10 years. Two more calls can be expected by the end of the year. During the fall, calls will be prepared, which will be made for all researchers. It is very important to mention this year for Serbia's science, because on April 23rd it became a full member of CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, and this is the largest such science centre in the world founded since 1954. Many former Yugoslavia countries, of course, are Serbia alone for now or many European countries not yet members of CERN, Russia has only now applied. In parallel, projects of 1.157 talented young researchers with an average score above nine, born in 1988 and later. So we sent a clear message that we want young people in the system, that we want them to stay with us, and that they're developing here. Six institutes of national importance were established. The Innovation Work Fund is a permanent call for co-operation of science and economy, and will be able to do so every year, with the appropriate accompanying of other programmes and support and with an increase in budgets. In the last two years, the Innovation Labour Fund has supported 141 projects and 264 businesses and over 320 innovative vouchers have been divided, totaling 18.6m euros. Two-thirds of these couples are the money of the Republic of Serbia. Schools and institutes recognise the priorities and areas of development through the public-private dialogue process, and include the development of a smart specialisation strategy, as well as a science and higher education strategy by 2030. The capacity and number of scientific and technological park programmes in Belgrade has been increased. More than 70 tech companies work there with over 700 engineers. They have been incometing 46.4m euros for the last two years, half of which are exports of new products and services. The model is being transferred to Novi Sad, which will be fully equipped and finished at the beginning of next year. Nis is working intensively and this project ends somewhere in February 2020. Cačak is like a smaller development centre, as well as the creation of new centres, as well as networks of Serbia's scientific and technological parks. It is invested in the infrastructure of scientific institutions, 23.9 million is for the park in Novi Sad, 10 million for the park in Nis, 5.2m euros, of course we are talking about building and equipping the lamela of the Faculty of Electronics in Nis where the stone is recently established. Serbia has given 14 million to build the Biosens Institute in Novi Sad, as much as the European Community has given. Fivem euros has been given for the new building of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences in Belgrade, which begins with construction, all preparations and design have been completed. Fivem euros has been set up to build the Institute of Physics through the Verokio Project and millions more dinars to equip these projects. Our 358 institutions participate in 250 European projects under Horizon 2020. So far, the data was, until the other day, that we reached a budget of over 77 million. Today's data is already over 84m euros. So we are significantly the strongest country in this region when it comes to participation in such large and significant projects. We have very many bilateral co-operations with many countries, with 12 very important countries where Russia, China, America, Turkey, Italy and of course we will also have Japan next year. So Serbia is a very interesting country for such great forces when science is in question, and I particularly highlight the great co-operation of several of our institutes with Chinese institutes where we are farthest from it. In the next period we'll deal with the people of Russian science, we think it's our next turn to step up. The authorities are biomedicine, agriculture, renewable energy sources, information and telecommunications, materials technologies, robotics, machinery, environmental protection. The Science Fund, apart from calls for young researchers, despite a big call for all researchers, has two more important fields, which is co-operation with the scientific diaspora, which will intensify the one we lack. The Greeks and many others did so well, and we will use their fine examples. Of course, a particular kind of branch for the Science Fund will be projects related to artificial intelligence, robotics, and I think that Serbia has very young, smart people there, and that this is all realising has a chance of keeping them here. The total increase in the budget from 2015 to 2019 is 35.8% for science and has reached 1%. The target zone is 1.5%, but for countries that have not had any problems that Serbia has had in recent years. This scale is moving significantly and I think that we will achieve this in the foreseeable period within the framework of the strategy by 2030 and before. A second key step in reforming the system is the creation of a new law, the Law on Science and Research, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is now before you by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law solves the institutional financing of researchers not to depend, like so far, on whether or not they have passed a project. It's been a long request from the scientific community. In addition, the law brings forth a series of important newspapers. A very open public debate has been held with a number of official but informal stands. The official public hearing was held from 3 December to 3 January, i.e. 2018/2019. She was in Belgrade in the rectory hall, in the halls of the rectorate in Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, but was also presented to the community of the Serbian Institute of Commerce and held a session of the National Council for Science and Technological Development. Participants in the public debate were representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, representatives of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, the Community of the Institute of Serbia, the Academy of Engineering of Serbia, the state and private universities in the Republic of Serbia, the state and private institutions of the Chamber of Commerce, etc. Proposals, objections and suggestions to this Law on Science and Research have been submitted by a number of interested organisations and individuals, both within and outside the academic community. A total of 134 letters with proposals, remarks and suggestions. A large number of these remarks were accepted by the Working Group, which also made the draft law. The task force has met since and several times later, many of Serbia's largest universities rectors, as well as members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, participated in its work. Following the corrections made, the draft law on science and research was re-presented to the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development on 25 April, which fully accepted the changes made and demanded that the law be adopted as quickly as possible. The law again won the majority of the Serbian Institute, and officials of the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development were also guests of an extended rectorial college at the University of Belgrade, where the draft amendments to the bill were also supported. A large number of informal meetings were held with interested groups, especially researchers from the university who were not in the classroom, who reached agreement on the draft law. In the public debate, they had the most need to show off. Systemically and uniformly defined the involvement of students of doctoral studies in all accredited scientific and research organisations, and so those who are currently in the system, so those who will be involved in it. The public hearing on the proposal for a law on science and research was held on Monday 17 June in the House of the National Assembly, organised by the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, the Information Society, on the proposal of the chairman of the Committee, Prof. Dr. Muarem Zukorlic. Public listening has enabled MPs, representatives of relevant institutions to make suggestions and proposals to advance the text of the existing law, but at the same time provided further evidence of the quality of the proposed solution. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development welcomes the Institute of Public Listening. All in all, a huge effort has been made to give all members of the scientific community the opportunity to express their position. In the case of the public, the view prevails that the ministry has shown exceptional openness. The most important scientific institutions support the rapid adoption of the Law on Science and Research. I will only make a key contribution to this legal framework, the Law on Science and Research, together with the Fund Act, to create a legal basis for moving from existing funding systems to new funding, i.e. from exclusively project financing to double financing, institutional and core competitive project financing. Institutional funding of the institute is enabled. That doesn't mean that researchers will get funds, that they won't have to get results. We are expected to produce sublegal acts that will define what is expected as a result of this institutional funding. The third benefit is to provide funding for the scientific and research work of accredited higher education institutions, whose founder is state-owned. It covers funds for the researcher's material costs, including costs related to equipment. It includes different programs and salaries of researchers and those who are not in follow-up. It opens up the possibility that one part of the institute is dealing with matters important to the state, because some of them are founded. The results we expect from the scientific community are not only works on the SCI list, but also concrete contributions to the state and society as a whole. That goes for researchers from the university. A legal framework has been created for the establishment of the Science Fund, which creates conditions for calling competitive calls through all the law-designed programmes designed according to best European and world practices. A flexible way of funding the Science Fund, as an instrument for coherent development of science and research, is designed for the common needs of different resolutions. Of course, apart from the Ministry of Education and Science, there are the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, Agriculture and other ministries, as well as society in general. A legal framework for the establishment of new institutions has been established recently at the government to form the University of Kragujevac Information Technology Institute. The criteria for the evaluation of the work of scientific institutions have been defined. Systemically solving the involvement of doctoral students in accredited scientific and research organisations. It supports reintegration of diaspora scientists into the science and research sector in Serbia through simpler and faster procedures. Establishing an international co-operation and diaspora committee, as well as strengthening the role of KONUS in improving the quality of scientific and research work. A legal framework has been created for a more efficient choice in titles, adapted criteria for selecting real needs and circumstances. The principle of open science has been introduced. Last year, the ministry adopted an open science platform that not all European Union countries have. Scientific and research infrastructures have been defined, the additional involvement of institutes in the performance of master studies, the additional possibility of paying for researchers to perfect their scientific titles abroad. The role of the Centre for the Promotion of Science has been redefined, this is very important, and co-ordination of the Centre for the Promotion of Science with all our regional centres, such as Petnica, Trsic, and these others that are being built and that need to cover one network within Serbia. The role of engineering sciences has been strengthened. Technology transfer was supported through the creation of start-up and spin-of companies in scientific institutions and at the university. A legal framework has been provided to address the housing needs of researchers, teachers and co-workers at institutes and higher education institutions. An integral framework for the participation of institutions outside the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development system has been provided, and this is with other ministries above all. The institution's own income has been regulated and is in line with higher education. New opportunities are being created to address the needs of scientists under much more favourable conditions, and the conditions for retirement are in line with higher education. Diversified financing of centres of exceptional value through public calls has been provided. The effects of all these changes will be seen quickly, but in the long run, we believe they will be both significantly noticed and large. We want to reward the best, to give a new system in five years to show who's more successful, and who's less, just to make them more successful in funding and support the absolute well-being of society. Sometimes it seems that certain groups in the community are making great turbulence to keep the status quo, but we think it's the past for both of us and that we have to move forward. It is not possible to keep the current system, because in some ways we cannot run any serious cycle in the project work, and on the other hand, researchers from the domain of social sciences were in trouble until we proposed amending the law this way of institutional financing. This time, science reform is fully targeted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55822	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55823	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society The proposal for a law on science and research has come very seriously, deeming it very important for the development and future of state and society. It is known that science in this country is one of the key resources, even a kind of brand. According to the very parameters and indicators on the international scene, this country is moving between 32nd and 41st places in the world in science and science, which is not the case for other aspects of development, but we are much lower. This also indicates that what has been achieved so far and achieved in science, as well as in the matter of the systemic relationship itself, has been very serious for the respect, however, a decades-long experience with science and the organisation of science and institutional attitude towards science has actually shown some shortcomings. What was the obvious idea with this law is just to remove these shortcomings. The essential step forward with this law is actually in the field of institutional financing, more specifically providing security to institutions and institutions, as well as individuals dealing with science, and I think that this is a very good reason to pass this law and to give full support to this bill. It is precisely by defining that it is a very important law that we are, in addition to the usual procedure for the treatment of the law through the Committee, in fact this time and resorted to the mechanism of public listening and organized public listening here in the National Assembly, where more than 120 people were invited mainly from all science-related structures. All university rectors were invited, representatives of all scientific institutions, representatives of all scientific bodies, governmental and all others. The response was great. The participation was also very serious. The hearing lasted several hours, and during that time all those present and interested were allowed to discuss and give their opinions. We have heard, therefore, very high-quality attitudes, quality suggestions from those positive from very positive estimates, but there has also been a suggestion with critical sound and constructive suggestions that can be considered through further discussion, or amendments. The intention of this public hearing was, in fact, to enable MPs to come deeper into matter and to hear the arguments offered by the government, or the ministry, about the solutions offered, but also to further inform and educate themselves on the proposed legal text, so that they could actually participate in a quality debate, or possibly prepare quality amendments. So, in addition to very noticeable, positive assessments, some of the reserves, which were likely to be present during the public debate, were also shown. It is, therefore, a question of a kind of reduction or perhaps an indetermination of that part of the law regarding science at the university. This certainly concerns those permanent dilemmas whether it is possible to treat science separately from higher education or together, and with regard to legislative regulation, but also with regard to the organisation itself. Our experience through earlier, therefore, the systemic treatment of this issue is diverse. We had one experiment, another experiment. Both have their arguments for and against, so this should be observed through the prism, but I'm sure certain that certain irregularities or possible shortcomings can be solved by quality legal considerations, which will probably continue to seem as well as operational solutions through the very implementation of this law. Certainly, it is essential that we get, as I said, security in systemic, institutional financing, where scientific institutions will have budgetary security. Of course, further incentives and other solutions will solve the risk, we will protect ourselves from the risk of simply losing that motivation through the project financing we have had so far. In fact, this is not an end to the project suspension, it's very important to point out, but it's now a combined science funding. Institutional security, i.e. funding through, institutional financing that gives security to the institution itself, and in fact there will still be project financing that will provide this necessary dynamic with regard to competitiveness and the necessary motivation. With all this in mind, as well as what we heard from Mr. Minister, I think this law should get a chance, that is, this proposal should get a chance, and certainly everything we hear from the suggestions of the MPs through the debate should be taken very seriously into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55824	I thank my colleague Zukorlic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55825	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Sarčević, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a draft law on science and research, as you yourself have said, it is a roof law and its importance is unquestionable when we talk about the progress and prosperity of science, as well as scientific research projects that will develop to a greater extent. It is important here to point out that through this way of funding we will also allow the most successful enterprise to be created as the results of scientific research work to really be implemented, i.e. that their application will be commercialised. The example, good, is Google. We also had a chance to see how many of our domestic experts and companies were also developed, but it really took us to introduce these new institutes, such as the new funding method, such as the law we passed last year, etc. So we started with the Science Fund which has already brought a series of benefits, that is competitiveness, quality of results, development of scientific personnel, but also participation in international projects that are important for Serbia. So when we talk about this bill, we're talking about changing the model of funding research activity. We are aware that there is no developed country where there is no particular balance between institutional financing and the project competition, so to speak, that there must be, first of all, stability of funding of scientific workers, which would later apply for certain projects, or, as is said, there is no suspension of project financing, but there is combined funding. This is important because of the balance that is being introduced, because there should be stability in funding that researchers feel safe on their jobs, that they do not remain jobless unless they are part of another project. Moving from project to institutional financing also provides a great benefit for the state and society, in general, Serbian citizens, because there is now a way to invest more and more knowledge in the development of certain companies both business and small and medium-sized enterprises, which is indeed what we lack. We are witnessing that in the last few years we have 52 new companies that are open in Serbia and over 28,000 jobs, when we talk about foreign investments. What we lack is domestic small companies run by our experts, not going abroad to earn more. In this way, science as a development is not itself a goal but a goal is to develop societies and improve the lives of Serbian citizens. Education laws are highly ranked in Europe as well as in the world. Currently, Serbia is on the list between 32 and 41 places, which is compared to almost all other ranked areas in which we compete, we show very great success. At the end of last year, as we said, the Law on the Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia was passed, and I would like first of all to commend the success of becoming 23 full-fledged CERN members. It's for all praise. The government of the Republic of Serbia has increased budgets by 35.8% in dinar value in recent years by 2019, saying that the government has the awareness that science is one of the most important parts of investment when we talk about prosperity and country development, as it is the goal of just improving people working in Serbia. We need to be not cheap labour as people like to say, but that our personnel possess knowledge that will be able to develop the country. Also, the quality of scientific research also enables more efficient, more efficient work and improved efficiency and location of resources, better use of the resources we have, and thus we will be able to be equal partners of the European Research Area. The key is to include researchers from abroad, or those who have already gone back as well as the development of “startup” innovation centres. We also commended that in 2013 we have had large investments in terms of grants, 24m euros grants for innovative entrepreneurship, financial assistance through innovative vouchers and so on. We support 6/3 JJ/IC all the efforts the government is making in science to keep young experts in Serbia because it really is Serbia's future. So, like we said, the labour market finds as much knowledge as possible, to open up domestic companies, to keep experts in the country, to influence the development of society. The PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55826	I thank my colleague Karadzic. The word has been made by the People's MP Moamer Bacevac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55827	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, the responsible policy must be the servant of the economy. Policymaking must today be such that I result in the quality and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. That's what this government really does to the intensity and quality of its appointment in two main directions. First of all, on the one hand, by pushing the information society, by introducing information solutions and information connections in all systems and in the other, by improving our country's scientific and technological capacity. It is undeniable that there is a scientific and research potential in Serbia that needs to be nurtured and increased, as well as a more concrete use for Serbia to become a knowledge-based economy. The Harmonic relationship between economy, science and innovation is in terms of continuous and quality transfer between them modus operands of safe economic development of our country. In the field of improving scientific activity, the most important thing was to modernise the laws concerning science and scientific research, and this is what the ministry has done very correctly. First of all, last year a Law on the Science Fund was adopted which continued to fund the project and which opens an even bigger range for the project financing of science, which is very important, and which is how a really large number of scientists can be motivated, which this country has in all fields, to include their own personal solutions in the scientific development of this country. Today, we have a very important proposal for a law on science and scientific research that has passed very comprehensive public debates, which have been very high quality, which has helped to create a good document that respects the attitudes and needs of the scientific community. These two laws, which I have mentioned, constitute a set of reform laws in the field of science that encourage scientific and technological development and provide stable funding and efficient use of funds through a combination of project and institutional financing. The main newspaper, mentioned by Mr. Minister of this Law, is the official suspension, but we saw that it was not an abolition, but a new way of funding, but the abolition of a model that so far existed, an absolute project financing that was unsustainable, which was highly criticised and through which certain research projects were financed. This current absolute model has led to the ministry's competitions being served and served as a means of surviving research institutes, rather than promoting and upgrading quality research. I want to say that this is the ministry and a number of research that it has carried out has found that this system so far is missing and that it needs to be refreshed and moved on to one another, as we will see in this law the proposed model, which is a model of combined institutional and project financing. It is indeed a definition of this government to modernise our country, above all in the scientific field. I've praised the Ministry of Health here a lot, because I'm really happy with how the Ministry of Health handled the problems, modernised that area. Astronomeric are the great figures that the ministry has invested in restoring resources, but I can say that the hand in hand with this ministry stands and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development and Education, which is a broad field of work of this ministry, which has indeed done a lot, not only in the field of legislation, which we are witnessing today, but also renewing the numerous resources that practically total education and science in this country has. In the last four years, the science budget, as we have heard, has been increased by 36% and announced by the prime minister that this trend will continue, and the minister himself said will try to reach the figure from 0.97 to 1.5, which is indeed a huge increase in the budget, it is about percentages of gross national income, what this government or past government has found that was really much less and practically inconspicuous and really minor for such a vital branch. For the past two years, we have heard that investments in science have continued in Serbia. The best example is the construction of certain scientific and technological centres, the scientific and technological park in Novi Sad and Nis, as well as the construction of the Biosens Institute building in Novi Sad, apartments for young researchers in Kragujevac, etc. Indeed, what this ministry has done is very much and very good. However, both scientific legislation and scientific infrastructure, we have seen it grow, but the main problem seems to be the weak link between economy and scientific innovation. At first, I said that the serious policy that many European countries have is the one in which the policy is a servant of the economy and those in which scientific achievements and innovations are drivers of the economic development of these countries. In fact, that’s the main thing and the trick that makes these societies very advanced, because of their workers’ salaries and why their products are very expensive. The orientation of scientific research towards economics in our country is relatively low, as has been reflected in Serbia's global competitiveness report for 2018, in which Serbia is 79th in place according to the quality of university co-operation and economy. Out of the total number of results achieved on research projects financed from the 2011-2015 budget, patents and technical solutions used by our economy are only 3.3%, and on the other hand, scientific papers account for 88%. I'm not saying it's a bad thing, because I'm writing scientific papers myself and I'm doing scientific research on this vision, and that's what many medics are doing very successfully in this country and many other scientists, I'm saying that for the overall industrial development of the country, it's more important to develop this second sector, or to develop a better link between economy and scientific research. Of the 16.592 researchers, only 3% were employed in the business sector. Scientists in our country find it hard to cross from academic to economic. Total scientific separations in Serbia, I said for 2017, amounted to 0.93 GDP, although this is much less than the 2.03 European average. We expect that this trend will continue to grow, as it has so far grown and that it will reach some reasonable, consistent economic strength of our country, value. Only 10.1% of total investment in science comes from the business sector in 2017, significantly below the EU average, where the private sector participates with 55% of investment in the development of science and innovation. A stronger link between science and economy is one of the main preconditions for development and innovation and their application in the economy, thus also for economic development and job creation. The countries that are leaders in innovation and technical and technological development are this only thanks to the close link between economy and scientific and research activities, as well as commercial application of knowledge and technology. There is no doubt that it is necessary for the scientific community, the institutes, to become more involved and to create an offer for the economy. I know that you've been working on it all the time, and that's what I've been talking about for the last 22 years, or the last ten lenses about what I'm talking about. You are aware that this is the key to this country's progress. I'll also commend you for forming a Council for Business and Science Cooperation. There's a Mr. Popovic appointed president, and I think it's very important. I've looked at the Chamber of Commerce site, which is with you partner, and that's a way to inform our small business and medium-sized enterprises, because they're probably not aware enough of how much innovation, or even the minors, can, and imagine some of the world-wide importance, can lead to the acceleration and relief of their production, their competitiveness and, of course, the rise in the economic power of the whole country, through this way. If you go to America, you'll easily see that they're throwing out their heavy industry and those old technologies, the textile industry, and they're building their entire industry on scientific innovations, expensive products. For example, Americans produce 90% of the most modern medical aids, which are extremely expensive and whose production, believe me, is not so expensive and complicated. It's about a good branding and a really good idea that they can and they present in the right way. I said that it is very important for this Council for Co-operation of Economy and Science and I said that it seems a lot to open very important centres for science in large cities, such as Novi Sad, Nis, Belgrade, there is talk of Borca, Cačak, Kragujevac, but I must invite you to also take a little care of other parts of Serbia, such as Novi Pazar, Subotica, parts that really have great potential. You know that Novi Pazar is the youngest city, a new market region, with a really large number of young, very high-quality students and people who are really close to science. You have the capacity of the state university in Novi Pazar, as well as several private universities, and I think that the establishment of a single innovation centre, as well as the appointment of a particular person or the opening of an office of this council of cooperation between the economy and science, would be of great importance to the region and to raise a common scientific standard in the country itself, because in my area, there is no shortage of people who are willing to invest in small business, who are willing to risk, who have this gene for business, but I believe that some innovations that must be supported by this ministry and the state and the establishment of such an innovation centre can greatly facilitate and strengthen this production activity, and that indeed this end stands in rank with larger centres in this country. I think that Novi Pazar and the new market area, or the Sandzak region, have great potential in people and in education, which can really contribute to making this country move forward even faster and be an engine of economic development, as it is today, the engine of European integration and modernization of this country. The Social Democratic Party in its programme has a really special document and pays special attention to education and science, and therefore we will really support this law with a broad heart, given that it was supported by the full public in Serbia and that we are convinced that the good thing for the state of Serbia and all its citizens is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55828	Thank you, Comrade Bacevac. The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55829	Let me just refer to many of your findings, but that's the problem and the strategy that, here, expires in 2020. In drawing up a new strategy for education and science, we are doing action plans that all of our wishes and projects can be realized. Because it's one thing to write a strategy and not follow it, but to expect some things to happen themselves, and it turned out to be a bad time. An attempt to rebuild the project cycle in the first half of 2016 caused only a fight and war among researchers, as it proved to be very barren, which was not meant to reflect this social moment and relationship in the scientific community. But what's very important is the focus of all these efforts that science is about economics, not to argue that there is science for science. Theoretical science also has great significance. We have several teams working on this strategy. A little while ago I mentioned another strategy, where we were also identified as leaders in a wider European environment, which is the creation of a Smart Specialisation Strategy and that's one of our answers to this whole story, with the fact that the innovation fund, as it turns out, is extremely tough. Just before I gave the data that a total of 18.6m euros has been given through the Grants, over 320 innovative enterprises, small, medium, micro. The Science Fund should be the right answer for that. He has been formed so, and ambitions need to be much, much more pronounced since 2030, so these things that you're saying now need to be expressed one to one. It means that, Malten, money as much as the state separates for a science fund, so much so that it separates the economy. And that's something we're looking at with the most developed countries in Europe, and I think, after all these measures and the reasons for the adoption and the Fund Act and the Law on Science and Research, that's exactly what we're going to do. So the projects must be evaluated, their usefulness must be seen, and the companies that come here and how interested they are. More and more serious companies are coming, and we are increasingly focusing on the airlines that are coming and looking for the capacity of enlargement, literally, and high school education, engineering college and all other groups. So, we have to take good advantage of every chance now in the context of this, so it is precisely the reason why this law is passed that absolutely other ministries, and buildings and agriculture and health, are found because innovations in scientific action are related to all areas of social life. The Portuguese strategy, which is very good, with which we are friendly and we have a double number of increased projects we are working on, plans until 2030 to have two euros on one euro-cent on the side of the economy and others. We can't be that ambitious, throw that far by 2030, but I think very soon this five-year cycle project will learn and show which direction the story is going to go. The Belgrade park itself was half empty. There's no chair now. We are now missing Belgrade Park 2, Star 2 which should meet only those needs. Of course, not just the hammer. You saw that the model of a small town, which is tied to the University of Kragujevaci, also showed toughness and readiness and that model is now piloted. Certainly Novi Pazar is interesting by all other principles and as a centre of southwestern Serbia, where such a story is designed and such an idea exists in other cities, of course, but we designed a information society for a short time, a knowledge-based society, and this is now just a further impulse that needs to freak out even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55830	Thank you, Minister. The word is a national letter from Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55831	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, is the topic of today's parliamentary debate of this assembly's session as an extremely important law in the field of science. It is a proposal for a law on science and research, whose special value stems from the fact that it is a leading law, i.e. a roof law, which prescribes the legal framework necessary for the implementation of important reform processes in this sphere of our social life. The legislator's intention is clear to regulate and improve conditions for the overall functioning of all segments in the fields of science and research of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to establish a positive environment for necessary reforms. In proposing this law, it came from the fact that a knowledge-based society, as our country too, requires a high level of knowledge and transfer of that knowledge to new products, processes and services. It is also understandable because modern societies have long recognized science and education as dynamic factors of economic, social and overall civilizational development. Moreover, there is no doubt that science and innovation are a key factor in competitiveness and sustainable development. Therefore, the concept of a modern economy is based on knowledge, and development, growth of gross national income, standards of citizens and better quality of life are unimaginable without science and education. In the developed part of the world, significant material financial resources are being invested constantly in research, innovation and human resources. For example, EU countries single out the average of 2% of GDP for science, i.e. research and development, with more than half of these funds coming from the private sector, i.e. of interested companies. The EU's goal is for all Member States to reach a level of 3% of GDP for investment in science by 2020, with a 2% private sector structure and 1% of the budget to be provided by Member States' governments. Their calculations are clear -- more investment for more innovation, leading to job creation and GDP growth. Thus, according to estimates of the Europe 2020 strategy, 3% of GDP for R & D and innovation investments should bring 3.7 million new jobs and an increase in GDP of 795 billion euros in 2025. Serbia also has ambitious plans. Our "Innovation Research" strategy has planned to continue to increase investment in scientific research and we can today say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has increased budgets for scientific and research work by 35.8% between 2015 and 2019. The intention is to continue in the coming years a positive trend of greater divergences from the science budget, but also to significantly increase the share of funds from other sources, which is now modest and amounts to about 10%. All this unequivocally says that in front of our society and in front of our scientific community of the year there are great challenges and great expectations. It is clear that the Serbian economy and society must step into a new field of development based on the results of scientific research and innovation. It is the only way Serbia can monitor and move forward with modern trends in civilization development, and the Serbian economy can be an equal and competitive partner in the global economic market. Dear People's MPs, knowledge, education, science, research and innovation are key to the development of the Republic of Serbia's continued rebirth. Our scientific community, the science and technology it develops rightly is expected to be the driver of all sorts of national prosperity. Conscious of its roles and responsibilities, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is courageously going to meet the challenges, paved the way for the necessary reforms with the intention of ensuring that better material and technical conditions are possible, but also certainly, stable and predictable financing of scientific research our numerically small but also how high-quality and prosperous scientific communities. When we talk about technical support and conditions for scientific and research work in the previous period, significant shifts have been made. I'll just mention some. Serbia has become the 23rd full member of the CERN of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research and thus has wide opened the door for our researchers and their work on the most modern research equipment in this scientific area. There has been a significant improvement in the infrastructure to support science and research, such as the development and equipment of scientific and technological parks in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Cačka, etc. Cooperation between science and economy has been improved through numerous projects financed by the Innovation Action Fund. In addition, over the past few years, investment and significant financial resources have been allocated to equiping existing and forming new laboratories with a clear plan and for future investments. We are now facing a new important goal of reform which is also a presumption of the success of other reform processes, which is to establish a new model for funding scientific research. In this respect, the first concrete step is already being taken by adopting a law on the Science Fund. The law was passed in December of last year as a new law, for a new institution that exists in almost all countries that have developed science. By the way, let's remind ourselves, it was after 12 full years the first, brand-new law in this area. This first step was also how successful, because today six months after the adoption of this law, we can say that the Fund has been established and is operational. In fact, a few days ago, on June 21st, the first public invitation to propose projects to be financed by the Fund was called. This first call is addressed to young researchers, which I think is extremely important and significant, because this way, as a society, we send a clear message that it is important for us and how important that our young people stay in Serbia and actually have opportunities here in their country to work on their projects and achieve their professional ambitions, and for their own personal well-being and well-being of our entire community. Valuable attention and praise have also been given to the Fund's announcements that two more calls for project proposals can be expected soon, one from the capacity improvement programme in the field of artificial intelligence and the other from the co-operation programme with the Serbian scientific diaspora. From this point on, it is clear that the policy of the Government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is a strong support for the further development of our scientific research. The next important step, which is also crucial in reforming the system, is the adoption of a new law on science and research, which we are discussing today. What is the special value of the proposed law is that it is thoroughly prepared in collaboration with the scientific community and that the bill is as it is today, the result of a broad consensus achieved in the community. For our scientific research, the proposal of this law brings numerous newspapers. Among them is a particularly important newspaper, a proposal for institutional funding of the institute. This practically means safety for our institutes, because their survival will no longer depend on whether they have passed on a project or not. They will, in effect, be financed by sound institutional means for the implementation of their work programmes approved by the founders. Another important paper of the proposed law is the legal framework for the project financing of the Fund for Science. So, along with institutionally, this model also includes the possibility of using funds for project financing. So our researchers, whether they come from the university or from the institute, will be able to equally, under the same conditions, apply and exercise the right to use the Fund for Science. In this way, in fact, there is also an essential possibility for carrying out competitive project calls, which is, by the way, a long number of years and a request and expectation of our scientific community. With competitiveness and scientific excellence, as an important criterion for the evaluation of project proposals, Serbian science and research will gain new energy and quality for even better scientific results and even greater visibility at national and European research space. So once again it is confirmed that the government and ministry of education policy is to preserve and strengthen our scientific institutes, and these today are 63 accredited, as well as that the scientific and research potential that Serbia has further develops and adequately uses. In addition, the proposed legal framework for the establishment of new scientific institutes and for the strengthening of institutes of national importance is important. The new proposal of the Law on Science and Research introduces the principle of open science. Mechanisms for better co-operation between colleges and institutes are prescribed, as well as for stronger integration of scientific work between institutions, both at national and international level. A particularly important segment concerns the regulation of issues concerning technical support for technology transfer through the establishment of new strart app companies. For our society and our scientific community of special importance is strong support for reintegration and involvement of diaspora scientists in our scientific research sector through faster and simplified procedures. It is also extremely important that the law offers a proposal to resolve the status of researchers involved in ongoing research projects at the innovation centres of the university. Without the proposed solutions, these researchers would be very quickly out of our scientific community's system, more specifically, their engagement would end with the completion of ongoing projects, more specifically on December 31st this year. That, of course, is not good for them either, for our scientific community, and that is why it is important for this law to be passed, because it offers both good and possible solutions to this not so small problem. I have listed only some of the newspapers and solutions that give this bill an epithet of new, modern and reformal. I am convinced that the application of this law to our science will mean improving scientific research, better, more efficient and effective use of material, financial and all other resources for science and research. I am also convinced that the application of this law will help better shape the scientific research community of Serbia, which will be an equal partner in its scientific excellence within the European Research Area. In years ahead of us, I believe that this law will also contribute to a stronger bond between our science and society as a whole, because I am convinced that the common goal of all of us is to make our society a society of knowledge, and the results of our scientific research into the headquarters of our economic growth, improving the competitiveness of our economy, social and cultural progress, and all of this with the aim of improving the standards and quality of life of all our citizens. Finally, I believe that the biggest and especially valuable contribution to the application of this law will be that our young researchers remain in Serbia, because in our scientific system they recognise a good opportunity for their scientific research work, just as they were recognized by 1157 under 30 years of age and with an average of over nine, which were included in the system of ongoing research projects, funded by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development last year. For all of this, the SPS provides strong support for our science and for all efforts to improve it continues to develop and to take the place it deserves in our society. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law on science and research in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55832	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go, colleague Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55833	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers and Associates of the Ministry, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are before us today a very important Law on Science and Research. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal in the voting day, because the key objective of adopting this law is to create a scientific and research sector, which, by its excellence, can be an equal partner in the European Research Area. Minister, at the very beginning, I must say, speaking of this law, and seeing what's been going on in the field of science lately, it seems to me, and I believe that many here will agree with me, there are better times for science. In addition, the scientific community has so far come to a great deal of value, and no doubt it should be said that the scientific community is one of the best parts of Serbia's society. What's very important is that, first of all, your Ministry and the entire government recognized the importance of science. That's what many projects say, it's been saying all this lately that's been happening in science. I'll just mention, although I come from Kragujevac, the establishment of the Institute of Information Technology in Kragujevac. It's just one piece, I said, of what's going on. But, important thing, you've seen the importance of a bigger science budget, which is growing year after year. When I say, let's say, in 2016, separations were higher by 4% compared to 2015, in 2017 compared to 2016 by 6%, then, we have segregation in 2018 which is greater by 14%, so that this year we would have that separation by 8% compared to the previous year. This basically means that in the previous four years the science budget has been increased by 36%, which is really not a small thing and a great incentive for science. Furthermore, when we talk about all this in the field of science, a law on the Science Fund was passed in December of last year, a very important thing. The idea is to completely change the concept of science funding. Furthermore, Serbia has become a full member of CERN. I have to say, that's really good news for all young people, for the development of the economy in Serbia. I'll just remind the ministers, you know better, that the former Yugoslavia was among the 12 countries that founded the European Nuclear Research Agency, which we today call CERN. When we talk further about what is happening positively in science, six institutions of national importance have been established. The allocations for science infrastructure have continued over the past two years. I've only said some parts of what's been happening lately in terms of, say, better functioning of science. Speaking of the Law of Science and Research itself, it should be said that it has been waiting for a long time. Some call it this, like, some say it's even a historical law, but what's a fact is that he's made a big step forward and, Minister, I'm going to say these openly – your associates, here people sitting with you, those people who do this law, have done an extremely good job and I think everyone agrees. I always say that some law is good when a quality public debate is conducted, and as far as this law is concerned, an open public debate with a number of official but informal stands has been conducted. I will only mention in Kragujevac, at the University, where I come from, in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, but also here in the Assembly we had a public debate and there were various proposals, remarks, suggestions on draft laws, different organizations, individuals from the domains of academic sciences, but also who do not come from the academic community and, what is very important to me, all these remarks were adopted, a large part of these objections, and all in order to pass one better law. When it comes to the Law on Science and Research itself, it should be said that it is a roof law in the field of science, that in a package with the Science Fund Act it regulates a policy to encourage scientific and technological development, stable funding, effective use of funds through a combination of project and institutional financing. What does that mean? For the first time we have this model of combined funding, that the institutes have stable means for their operation. So they don't have any more problems thinking they'll have or won't have the funds and that's the model of institutional funding, but also the institutes will be able to apply for funds through project funding. With this project further, I will only mention some of the things that are significant, specify and speed up the procedures for choice in scientific titles, this law regulates the issue of better co-operation between economy and science, which is an important thing for the results of science to be in function, not just in economy, but in the whole of society, creating a legal framework for the opening of new institutes. Now what is strong support, reintegration and involvement of diaspora scientists in Serbia's science and research sector through simpler and faster procedures. What is more important, the role of engineering science is strengthened. This is only part of the important things that a new law makes and no longer entering the paper of this law, once again, let me say, the basic goal of passing this law is to create a scientific and research sector, which can uninterruptedly be an equal part of the European research system. At the very end, speaking of this law, again I say, we have heard all sorts of things about this law, here I say once again, that it is a historical law, a law that is long awaited, but whatever we call it, Minister, this law that has made a great step forward, has given young researchers a chance to stay in Serbia and, of course, the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55834	Thank you, colleague Kosanic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, it was nice listening to the previous speakers, and I felt like they were copying what they were going to say or read your argument, so they memorized it. Here the key question is asked – what can we say that you wanted to do with this law? I would say in that old Serbian -- a lot to start with, a lot to do, and nothing to do. I don't think you personally know what you wanted to do and achieve, because if you knew what you wanted to achieve, you would surely forbid this law from reaching the MPs and today you wouldn't be discussing it this way. The key questions when analysing the law are - for whom you wrote this law, in whose interest it is and with what it is aligned with. When I asked who you wrote this law for, I guess it's the initial idea that you wrote it for the public interest or the researcher's interest, or perhaps, you intended it for some conflicting stakeholders to balance the conflict of these groups, and I think you know very well what groups I'm talking about. What we can only positively single out in this law are indications that part of researchers and scientists will finally get permanent employment and benefits, but this is also questionable because there are, I repeat, only indications. The second question is -- how do you think you keep those young scientists that previous speakers talked about staying, and make older ones proud that they once decided to do science a long time ago, and the state didn't allow them to do the same quality and dedication? Do you treat researchers and scientists equally with this law, Mr. Minister? I don't think so, but I expect an answer from you. I think you're dividing them by not raising calls and scientific research to the level of the institution, which is practice everywhere in the world. The point is that you have failed to recognize the state interest, which is important for the future of this country, and unfortunately this is not your first time. In this mandate, you can boast of the results of writing, the results of the revision of bad laws that absolutely did not have a positive effect and must go regularly to work. Unfortunately, a similar fate will be with this law and the only thing I can say is that you have succeeded in the previous period, and you will succeed, is to manipulate the public through the media that this law will do something smart, so that you have already qualified, I can freely say, for the Minister of Information in another government, if the people are wrong in the next elections and that the government of the ruling parties, because if the SRS gets the trust of citizens, surely a minister like you could not be in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We've been listening here a moment ago to see what the results of this bill will be. The results of this law will be a further acceleration and a boost of the outflow of young scientists and personnel, further sharing the scientific community into less important and more important stakeholders, the institute, where the only criterion is the presence of representatives of the regime. It seems to me that the Ministry adopted the principle of open science, and when you spoke of a public debate and my fellow MPs, you failed to speak of one important thing. You kept quiet that during the public debate you received from young scientists an appeal to make science transparent. You disobeyed those appeals, Mr. Minister. In law, you left out young people and their ideas, and the consequence is that they will both leave the country. We're not rich, Mr. Minister, or personnel, or ideas, and everyone with ideas is our treasure to guard. These aren't people like individual ministers who care about money, planes, trucks, whatever you want. They're people who care about realising their own ideas, and you're going to stop them from doing it directly in this law, and you're not aware of it. When we came to the reasoning of the law, we have a few key questions we from the SRS. Are you reforming the system of scientific and research activity by improving or by bringing science back decades? How do you think you solve key problems with this law, and we think these are the following: low incomes, poor infrastructure, brain drains, not transparency and not competitiveness? The fact that you have declared these laws and this bill at the end of your term in principle ensured the institutional financing of certain scientific and research organisations, as the establishment of the Science Fund, is the question - where were you these three and a half years? You could have worked harder all this time to see that this isn't enough for the scientific and research community at the time of your term of office. The key question is, Mr. Minister, where is the increase in the science budget? It's not in the law, it's only in some papers and your statements. Are you going to leave that to some new minister, who's going to have to ask for significant increases in the science budget, and to rewrite bad laws, but it seems like this law can't even be rewritten, but it's going to have to write a new one. I guarantee you won't improve the quality of scientific research, as you stated in your research. I guarantee you that you will not be more effective at working your bodies, commissions and other organizations in the system of scientific and researchers. I guarantee you that there will be no improvement in the efficiency of allotment and use of all scientific and development resources and I guarantee you that you will not be able to develop such a solution and continue to develop an innovative knowledge-based society, but these proposed solutions will speed up the outflow of personnel. How much is this law in line with the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020 since it was mentioned in the law? Did you bring him into line with this strategy, which is in itself already bad and not in line with the world's positive practice, and you were saying at first that you were applying practice from the world? I invite you to tell us - what are examples and what are the practices. What does the fact that you're passing the law at the end of the strategy mean? Where have you been all this time? If you say you care about the scientific community, what have you been waiting for for three and a half years? What's missing in this law? There is no significant increase in the budget for scientific and research work. So much for that, gentlemen of the ruling parties. There is no significant inclusion of the economy. The fact that you picked up from different laws of sentence and flossula, which you like, absolutely in practice, this doesn't exist. It's not about the researcher and his ideas, it's about the systems of out-of-date institutions. That's the key. There is no general systematic approach to the connection of science and economy, and therefore there will be no funding, for the preservation of culture and cultural environment of creative education. The state has not pledged to allocate significant higher funds, but rather will separate nearly 10 times the percentage of GDP from developed countries, as long as we have a minister who does not understand science, and neither can science be better, while the first plan puts out obsolete systems of scientific and research organisations, and not researchers and their ideas, there will be no positive shifts. Who can convince you and me, Mr. Minister, that your ideas or ideas of any MP or idea of any director of the institute, any dean of the university, are better than the ideas of researchers who are only dealing with the creation of new ideas by achieving new achievements in an open competition with the most prominent scientists around the world, and they don't have time to sit around Belgrade cafes and invest in representatives of the regime to advance? You've often mentioned investment in CERN in the media. A large number of scientists with whom the representatives of the SRS have communicated will not agree, and they view it as your personal ad and openly doubt your qualification to bring your judgment. They agree in one thing that's a good commercial for you. When we take the law, if we look at paragraph 5 of the law, Article 28 and the fact that you are deepening the divisions of this law, in Article 28, you say in point 5 of Article 28, the community of the Serbian Institute, not the community of scientific and research organisations. In point 9 of the law and obligations of employees. Do you, Mr. Minister, know that, first of all, by this law in this section, you should have defined that certain researchers and scientists should know where their institute offices are? There are a large number of scientists who thank you for not going to the parent organization for three, four months, i.e. Institute where they're employed, while some who don't know where institutions are getting salaries. Could the Minister himself on this issue then propose an amendment with the following definition – at least those who know the location and website of the institutes, those with whom they receive the salary – according to the data the SRS and its expert team, who have presented to us MPs, are almost 10% of researchers who are close to the regime and do not come to work. Is Article 129, Mr. Minister, a blow to the Constitution where you and the state of Serbia share in more and less similar ways, where you researchers who started their careers at innovation centres and colleges don't treat them the same way as those who started careers at institutes, but you send them abroad? With this in mind, Article 29(3) of this article would have to be much clearer. Read Article 3. So I'd like to get an answer to this question. Four key things in this law are – there is no increase in resources, no systemic increase in science, I underline – systemic increase. Do you think that in the 21st century, you can do without a significant, not just a declarative and minor science separation to make a move? Until you look at positive examples abroad where science is not a cost, but investment and multiple returns, you won't have a positive result until then. Secondly, the law is passed at the end of the strategy, and it is adopted as if there is no ad hoc without respect and respect for what is there and without respecting the trends in the scientific and research world and the positive trends that have given good solutions and results. No wonder you bring the law at the end of your term. The reason is your unskilledness as a minister. Unfortunately, the results of this bill, I guarantee you today, will be devastating and I hope we meet again in one four, five years, as you say after five years, to see that these results will be nothing. The law is not directed towards researchers and their ideas towards state interest, but towards fulfilling the wishes of certain stakeholders. The consequence of this is that instead of unifying the scientific and research capacity that you haven't done, there will be a further polarisation of the scientific and research organisation of the accelerated departure of the best and most valuable personnel abroad and the absence of any thought of the desire for those who have already gone back. I'm sorry about the previous speaker who said he was coming back. No, he's not coming back. The fourth thing of this law. The law retains the archaic approach of organised scientific and research activity, which no longer applies anywhere in the world, because it is not based on the idea and prosperity towards the goal to be achieved. Did you turn your back on positive examples anywhere in the world, because, obviously, you couldn't call this law, writing to Frankenstein's approach, which as a whole can't work because, as I said earlier, you took some of it out of every law, but we're going to change this law quickly because as soon as the SRS comes to power, it's really going to be serious about these issues. There isn't, Mr. Minister, no big system that can work without a good strategy. Your experience of leading a primary and secondary school is not the same as the experience of running a system of education, science and technological development, and therefore you have no results during this term of office, and therefore all the promises you mentioned have not been realized, as well as all the promises you made at the beginning of the term of office. Science's strategy as the most important thing is that there are very few researchers from the economy, and after this law, unfortunately, there will be even fewer. Young researchers, their future is guaranteed in this law and you will not meet them anywhere, and I will see them abroad where they will realize their ideas, be respected, equal on the research team regardless of the age, where the results are measured, and not by party belongings and interest groups. The future of science is guaranteed, this law returns to the past. By this law we return unfortunately to the Stone Age. That your approach to this and this law is completely inadequate, says the fact that you have not thought of proposing the establishment of an institute for the record and analysis of the Hague verdicts. We have only one man today in Serbia over The Hague tribunal, who has dealt with almost all the processes and convicted Serbs in The Hague tribunal, from violation of the procedural rights of Slobodan Milosevic, to the scientific works "Serbian people must release the Republic of Serbia" and convicted Serbs on the issue of the Krajina, "Serbian people must free Kosovo and Metohija", condemned by our generals, where in The Hague the tribunal accused us of being genocide, that we are murderers, and on the other hand, that you formed this, then you would help that not only one man but the whole of Serbia would stop to deal with this topic, lawyers would get a job because there are a large number of lawyers who are present at the Bureau, and they could do so from the field of master studies, doctor studies, and it would be a great stimulatory. If there were more counterfeits in Serbia, there are more and more counterfeits every day, stakeholders who show that money can be bought every day, talks about those people, one is called, if I'm not mistaken, Wolf Pozderac Jeremic, who in previous days criticised some members of the regime about fake diplomas or what not, and imagine, when you have a man who accuses someone of counterfeiting, and he bought a political party, came in, took out the money, asked how much money he cost. Everything in this Serbia can be bought, the laws are like that. And then it wasn't enough for him, but he who and the DS in this House passed the Law on the perpetrators, that monster of the Serb people, announced a petition to collect a petition to abolish the perpetrators or almost a month after the SRS had already done so, only, unlike him, we didn't pass that law. We have been against this law, and we have issued facts, and as long as this Assembly is tolerated through these laws that are being passed, that the mandates of MPs are being bought, that MPs' parties are being bought with purchased mandates, and as long as there is a desire to respect for counterfeiters, and the prosecution is not going to do its job, and as long as the people who deserve to have the right to lead this country forward, all of Serbia will be in trouble, and unfortunately, Mr. Minister, we will not go as you imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55836	I thank my colleague Damjanovic. The word has a people's letter, lovely Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I hope we have some two-way communication. You know I publicly commended you by saying that with most of the things you do, however, in the meantime there were some in your rule, to express myself publicly, to me unacceptable things, which is your statement that the inclusion of force was being pushed into primary schools. I think it's a very irresponsible statement, especially because we took millions of sums from the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development for pre-school inclusive education and I want to tell you and everyone in education that there is no point in any country's time in which a country will be able to say that it is now ready for inclusive education. But we, in order to know where we're going, what resources we need to strengthen, what training we need to carry out, what in practice is our biggest challenge, we need to carry out the inclusion in order to know that we're planning what we're going to do next. So, as parents who get children with developmental difficulties are not ready to deal with that challenge at the moment they get them and no one asks them how they are, nor is the education system of course not ready, nor will they ever be fully prepared to respond to all the challenges of students, parents and teachers, but this process must be parallel and that we all work together on it. As for this law that's on the agenda today, I think it's very important that we pass one of these laws, but it seems to me that two basic things that are a problem in our higher education will not solve this law either. I was a member of an expert team on higher education reform in the period from 2013 to 2015, legally elected in the open competition of the Ministry of Education and Hands to the heart, more engaged in the social dimension in higher education and some back-group of our students and the education of their parents. When you look at "euro student", on their data platform, you will see that in our higher education students or their parents, most of them at least one of the parents has acquired a higher education. So, with us in Serbia, this vertical mobility is still weak, which is why we are deepening poverty, because only 1% of the student population in our country is that their parents have completed less than high school, and you know well how many people in Serbia have not completed their primary education. So this law does not achieve that the availability of higher education and scientific research work is equal to and at a higher level and we do not achieve that the quality of education in colleges is better. Why? Because it's not a secret, that's for sure if you visit conferences, you read research, you know that our university professors pay the most attention, because it's their only condition for calling, to produce a large number of scientific and professional papers. Unfortunately, since the focus is on this rather than on the quality of teaching, teachers are mostly focused on it, while teaching is performed by their assistants, which doesn't necessarily mean it's bad. But it is a big problem in the sense that there is no requirement for any pedagogical, doactic, methodical skills of university teachers, and then we have a situation where they say that we are getting worse generations of students, and those students were educated by teachers, teachers, who they were educated to teach these children. So it's a vicious circle that we can't get out of. You know for a fact that there is no possibility for us to have someone in academic studies, so why not master and doctoral, decide whether to focus their focus on continuing or on scientific research. Of course, both are important, but you certainly know that at prestigious universities if you want to be a professor, so to deliver knowledge to students, you must pass all other callings to undergo further training for a year, two days on the way you teach students. Our models are outdated and unfortunately, our university professors are focused on hyper-production of works whose quality is also at stake. So what's controversial in this law is that unfortunately it's characteristic of all the laws that we've passed on to education while you're a minister, and that's the tendency to give you too much responsibility, so then of course there are various gaps in the system that we've recently had and which I won't mention, because no matter what, I don't think you're the only one responsible for what happened. I agree that when the system has so many holes, it's practically impossible to determine whose responsibility is greatest in the chain. Here, for example, for the appointment of directors of scientific institutes, you say they're being appointed by the board of directors. The board of directors call a competition, elects directors, but cannot appoint them unless you give consent. It's the same with primary and secondary school directors, it's the same with all other functions. I don't understand where this tendency, not just yours, but all these ruling structures, is that too much responsibility and authority are being laid down, so to speak, to one man. In a way, that's how all these people, scientists, researchers, that someone should have chosen independently to perform the functions of directors of scientific institutes. I think it's the devastation of all these people and the degradation unnecessary, and if you can explain why that is. Also, what's mine is against laws, which is a useful expression in our national legislation, such as start-up and spin-of companies. I think it can be translated nicely into our beautiful Serbian language, which we still need to cultivate, we keep as much as possible. I guess the strategy will be defined, I hope that the strategy will define what is the minimum that is allocated from the budget for science and research. There, about for now so much. Maybe I'll get back to you later in part two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55838	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovska. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55839	I'll try for a while. We didn't seem to understand each other when we were talking about an inclusion that was introduced through various other models. It is not criticized as such, nor the degree of performance of these tasks, but the ways that have not proved effective, because you have no conditions. If you put one class, any level of education, into 30 students, three or four students who need and a pedagogical... You didn't do them any good. So we've been looking for a better model, and that's what we're looking for with the profession, which is that the retro centers are made and used and existing institutions that deal with children with some special needs. And so the more powerful the people who are doing that model, the more powerful they are. So you can't just decree it, you have to create conditions, that's what it's about. Believe me, there's a whole team at the Ministry who's doing it. When we talked about the bad parts of the system, it appears in some situations of the Minister's paradigm, but believe me, in practice, maybe between 0.5 and 1% got involved when it came to the appointment of directors. Ask all institutions, ask all school institutions, respect the will of the majority, be absolutely respected and all procedures are the same. If there's a similar number somewhere, which gets candidates in the collective, then you can see what the school board says. But there's a situation where you have to get involved, better then later. This is a matter of your responsibility, whether you do it right or not. So if you keep putting a candidate who has a lot of bad situations behind him, then you're just going to name some majority. Do you have the right as founder to say – wait, and you have another candidate. So that's what practice will show, and it's already shown. Of course, I'm not a minister for 3.5 years, but just 2.5 years, a little stronger, so I'm not that much longer, and as far as I'm concerned. Higher education is an enigma for itself and is not the subject of this law, but a lot of work is done, several teams are working on a strategy of higher education, quality indicators, and for two years we have been giving grants to raise the quality of teaching in high school. These are many, many elements that are not touched. We're preparing a law that's crucial, which will come somewhere in the autumn into this home, and it's about funding higher education. As you know, he's resolved by regulations and a lot of things, when you read the State Auditor's report, you can't change it. Even the ministers all passed regulations on regulations, I didn't do it, I waited to create an ambience to make it happen. When we talk about researchers' salaries, they're always bigger. Every salary increase goes to them, too. For the first time, when we talk about institutional funding, we are talking about now in the catalogue of occupation and again the law that will come into this house, which is the Law on Salaries and Payments, for the first time researchers at institutes and in colleges will have a regular salary and enter the catalog by titles as higher education. It never was. It's visible progress and their interest is this way, trust me, protected. We will now have a big problem in the summer to train people who work in the accounting of these institutions to move on to budgetary operations, which now requires the security of wages over budgets. Of course these people have a chance to participate in competitions. So they're absolutely not allowed to deal with the fund. The whole team that worked to improve the quality of teaching aims to make it more intensive at the university itself. I am very grateful to the people of Honus, who, although perhaps not an interpreted member of 129 here, appear, have the same rights when it comes to research, means people from institutes and people from the university. So, it wouldn't take this long for the public debate, and these young researchers who had a problem at first, because they didn't realize what their role was, and I can tell you that their role was pretty bad, they were manipulated. They're standing there in a solution that they can hold parts of some class, actually they're replacing assistants without any status, right? We tried to find them, they entered after the first debate on the team and these solutions that are still in circulation are their solutions. So that's where he was found some way. It wasn't just about bringing this in, it was about finding long-term peace and stability in the community of science. I certainly, although one of the MPs thinks I'm not competent to run the Ministry of Education and Science, I don't know who's competent to run preschool, certainly not someone from university, or who's competent to know everything, it's impossible to know everything. That's why I need to know the organization well, that I have good teams. I got it. I'm really happy with a team of people working at my ministry. It takes someone to have an overall vision, enough energy, to know well how to organize the system and know who, what they know, and a little bit about finance. You know how, when somebody picks a minister for the third time, they're gonna have to find it all in one place. It's hard to find, very hard to find, because people from the university don't understand... model or vice versa. That's why teams and understanding of people who lead and do it are important. We have very many situations to insist on the quality of higher education, because we want to place it to foreign students. That's what we used to do. It will also show all the models, which is why projects are done to get as much accreditation of programs that are both in English and in all other models, and why our observed colleges are now appreciated in the world. I absolutely agree with you and I'm not the creator of these spin-of and start-ap, etc. I'll make an effort to see that we adequately call it, as a tractor is not a Serbian word either, so you have it everywhere, but it's not even an English word, it's American. I don't think I've been able to answer everything, but the contribution of higher education must be much more visible. When we talk about teaching teachers, you're right. We opened the topic ten months ago – the initial education of people who work in teaching. It's our UNICEF partner now and we find out people are missing. In addition to missing for mathematics, information and various other subjects, we, if you noticed, have completed the first year of the cycle of reformed curricula, first, fifth and first high school, which is a mining business. At the same time, more than 20,000 people are trained just to change the way they carry knowledge, come for digital competences and all the other things we do, connected classrooms, tens of thousands of digital classrooms, using teaching content through digital models. It's big business. If our people were motivated in enlightenment, I take off their hat with a big pat on the shoulder. We will also welcome this Law of Salaries when they can be and motivated to show that quality of their work, and in these bad laws we have brought right here, quality teams and all the other things we have seen. We're in serious business right now, we've had a series of meetings with all the universities where both the rectors and the proctors and the deans and the students and the teachers of the departments, because it doesn't make sense that we train all the people who work in the system and that people come from the university who will work on some old principle and be so useless, because there's no transfer of content. We have some new paradigm, and that's what you know by yourself, the application of acquired knowledge and outcomes. We now have a problem, young people who come from the university, that we retrain them. So we decided to squeeze it together and do it, it's done intensively. I'm saying, we have a UNICEF partner, we have initial results, and it's not a fast process, because that's all the things we've tolerated for many years, and we know they are. It would take me a whole session to describe what was wrong with education and science in Serbia, the moment I took over. I'm not saying that we've solved everything, far from it, nor can it solve one set, but at least we should try and give certain solutions, speeches and public debates, public listening to all people who participate in the processes of science and research. I think we're talking here on their behalf, without those notes that we cheated on someone, that they don't all have the same rights, that doesn't exist, I can just guarantee it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55840	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55841	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's easy to talk about this law. This law represents a normal and logical continuity of that policy which has already shown that it has been successful and demonstrated the results, the results that we are happy about, and therefore it is also one more time to talk about them at this session or at any time absolutely easy. When we talk about politics, and it's about science and research, which is successful, and it's about directly this area, we're talking about, let's remind ourselves once again, of the policy they have defined and established personally by Alexander Vukic and SNS. We keep reminding that its points of reference on the one hand are the partner relationship of science and research, on the other hand of higher education, on the third side of the economy. The partnership relationship between these actors, which, by common fact, makes us do good results, to modernise the state, to modernise society, to make them extremely successful and, once again, to look at the results, to talk about them today, but it's always worth reminding ourselves of, so that we can see why we claim that on that plan we are successful. Serbia, meanwhile, became the 23rd full member of CERN. So when we talk about the best and most famous center that allows this kind of research that CERN is doing, we're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the world's top. When we say that Serbia is a 23rd full member, well, then that's an answer to the question of how we stand in some planetary proportions, from which we are increasingly successful and what we have the right to be proud of, and we have every right and we have achieved this result in the meantime. During this period during which Alexander Vukic, SNS, the Serbian government, which we voted for, is the period during which the solutions and measures adopted by us as MPs in this assembly, are being taken into account. Secondly, in the same period that we became the 23rd country of the world to boast of this full membership, we hired, the Ministry has precise data, so it can always correct or supplement, over 1,150 young researchers, top experts, people with an average score above nine, and who are the age of 1988 and younger. So, these people we found not only a place in the system and we told them that the state is counting on them, we found a solution for these people to be able to engage in a good, smart way to continue here to build their future and to be satisfied with it, to have conditions that provide them with what they expect from a place or environment in which they show what they can and how much they can make further progress, 1,150 plus. When we talk about how we respect the needs of the state, how we stimulate co-operation and the partnership I was talking about earlier, we have to remind ourselves, it's inevitable that we should also remind ourselves of the Innovation Action Fund. From year to year we have constant new calls and each time the budget is better, every time more funds are allocated and we come to order from more than 250 companies, so business actors who are happy to participate in these programmes. We're talking about dozens of millions of euros in value. It's proof that you're thinking seriously, it's proof that you're doing it seriously, and that's proof that we're successful at it and of course there's more. This collaboration between higher education and the scientific community and this public-private dialogue, we have already established through some of the laws we've dealt with before, and this law will deepen it further and make it even better, so it manifests, among other things, through these scientific and technological parks. Is there over 70 companies here in Belgrade in such an environment? Is there more than 700 capable young people, and not just young people, who are creating there today? When we say they create, we are talking about a time space of two or three years, of over 46m euros in such an environment. Is that a fact? Are there already any returnees from abroad among them? Is the total of these returnees registered in our official register of people dealing with research in Serbia a dozen at this time? Now we're talking about officially registered, and of course there are more. Many of them today recognize not only the efforts they make, not only the additional funds we provide, but also these results we talk about, so they say, yes, it makes sense. Only someone who knows absolutely nothing about it can laugh. So I go back to Serbia, and I create something, and I do it, so let's say I join this science and technology park or one of those we're setting up in the same model, like, New Sad, e.g. Nisu, in other cities in Serbia. These are real things today. When we say we're investing in infrastructure, here's a few more numbers you must have listened to, but it's worth hearing again, some things being reminded. When we say we invest in infrastructure, we mean close to 24m euros for, say, the park in Novi Sad, 10 million Nis, 5.2 Electronic College, also Nis. We talked about how to provide perspective for young people in Serbia and how they are thought to be, how they are given some perspective. Over 5.6 million for 210 apartments for the University of Kragujevac. Did we provide those young people who were admitted to the 1,150 projects where they could show what they could do, where they could find the proper engagement? Now, you see, we find models for them to have where to live young people, for these young experts to be respected, and that's all measured by serious numbers, by serious dozens of millions or millions of euros. And it's not over. And there's more. And another five million, the new building of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, the Verokio Centre of the Institute of Physics, Biosens, Novi Sad, 14 million, again euros, of course. These are all things that were absolutely unimaginable in the Republic of Serbia up to a year ago, in a state that was nudged in poverty, which was literally in front of bankruptcy and were said by serious, relevant people who followed these things, who are at the world's highest level of analysis of these phenomena. They say -- Serbia didn't think of it as either basic or elemental at the time. Today, Serbia can single out these sums, today Serbia not only can, and singles out these sums, in a smart way and for good purposes. Today Serbia can invest. When we talk about how the world sees us and how we present ourselves to this world, whether or not, the famous European projects, Horizon 2020, and we again count in hundreds of projects where we participate and the actors who participate in these projects from Serbia, and again in dozens of millions, we count the values. Today, there was a new data of 84 million, which means another 10% more than what we counted on yesterday. Aren't those valuable things? Don't they show how successful we are today and how much we can compete with the world, how much we can win on that plan? Not to say we're world champions, but that we're nothing worse than others, that we can't consider ourselves anything less valuable, but rather, that we can compete with them evenly and show that in these things we can show something better and something more. Well, we can. These things prove it. But it's not just European, with the People's Republic of China, we have several projects just collaboration in the domain of science and research that we do together. Is there agriculture and biomedicine and information-communication technologies and these so-called systems. Smart, or reversible energy? Are there the most attractive, state-of-the-art areas that are world-class interesting, so we finance them together, so we work together, us and our partners from the People's Republic of China? And how much? And again, hundreds of different bilateral projects that we're doing with a significant number of countries, they're all worth it. Thanks to our investment, and we seriously consider it to be an investment, not a cost, many will repeat that sentence, but many will not show that these results are ready to stand behind that sentence and those thoughts. We're ready to show that difference and invest. With this investment, we ensure that the world sees us better and understands us better, but what is much more important to us, that our people have a good basis that basic needs can be met in the right way and that they build tomorrow to be something better than today, and certainly more drastically than yesterday. We were able to provide 36% more resources for science and research over three years. Many today know all sorts of things and many will tell you that, here, this law is not good either, and these solutions that we are proposing today are not good, but they will never be able to explain to us that no one has done those 36% more for science and research for the most modern solutions, for the most gifted young people in Serbia. Since no one before us has been able to provide that, you won't get an explanation. And where were those apartments, those science and technology parks, where were those jobs for young researchers, when they were gone before, and today they are. That difference won't explain it to you. A lot of people absolutely, of course, don't understand. For those reasons, I'm not surprised that we in this composition are discussing this law. I didn't expect it to be possible for these political representatives of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, to appear here today, for an elementary reason not only that they can't compete with this, but that they absolutely don't understand this topic. So that's why we won't miss them. If they'd gone into the O.R., they'd have talked as much as they did in the old part of the day when their benches were empty. This is understood by the people who do these things, and when I say people who do these things, it's these very young people we've provided and the right conditions and projects to be hired, there are not only young people but also people with experience who are engaged in our institutes. Today when someone here says, and I heard earlier, not enough people from the scientific and research community are respected, it wasn't at the level of what these people deserve, it has no idea not only how this law was made but what those people think. And this law was formed precisely on the initiative of those people that some falsely care about, which we show that we are seriously concerned about, so scientists, researchers and those involved in institutes but also those involved in universities and who are engaged in teaching but who are not, who are not, who are dealing with purely scientific and research work and at universities. All of them, literally all of them, because there's no exception to either one of you saying this is a great solution. They say this is a fantastic solution literally. See what you could hear during a public debate that everyone would honestly tell you that it was completely transparent, that we cared about transparency and then we could be calm. Completely open, completely correct, that every proposal was discussed, that so many proposals were adopted that in the end we really achieved full consensus. Here in this building we only had public listening at the opposite end of the hall. Who was there? And whoever isn't, there's a video of him standing on the National Assembly site, he can look, he can see with his own eyes. He can see that absolutely everyone, but absolutely everyone who showed up at that public hearing said, "People for this proposal, it's an honor." So, for the Science Fund that you have already produced on all of these results last year, and now by this law you introduce institutional funding together with legal, fundamentally competitive project financing. Well, it's just a hat down there to say. And they say that, but literally everybody. So, not only the representatives of those institutions that you're going to say, and they're close to the state in one way or another, we're not just talking about national councils, parent committees, we're talking about all the institutes, all the institutes, and private and state institutions engaged in all the fields of science. We're also talking about the university, we're talking about the Academy of Science. So you're not going to find a single example of spending three days today by the end of the week of someone saying this is wrong. Everyone literally performed with words – well done. Now with this law and this kind of solution, indeed, for the first time, scientists are recognized by the state in the right way. All that uncertainty they've lived with for years and felt somewhat underrespected, this proposal disappears, but literally everybody, and you find two people who wanted to be particularly critical. You know how they started, with what words they started their presentation – this law, so what can I tell you, well done, this should have been a long time ago. It's literally that. It's good, and it should've been long ago. Look at the public in any way. So in that press in those media that don't do anything else, there's nothing else, but that they're politically attacking to brutally attack Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Whoever's been trying from the critics on duty, the ones who are playing some kind of conscience to the public, and of course they don't know anything about anything. Whoever answered about these suggestions, you know what he said? Well, the same thing as the people at the public hearing here. They said this was all good. Look, I'm just going to read you some words from those that are known to be, and it's proven that they can't stand us or our party or our politics or at least our leader. They say – this law shows the most serious intention so far to resolve the issue of science funding. Thus, the law can indeed be considered a turning point in a positive sense. In addition, it should not be kept quiet that during the previous months there were conditions for a correct and not fake public debate, so the original version of the text is still clearly corrected. And when this tells you someone you know thinks you're all the worst, that this is how he gives you credit, so I think it's ladies and gentlemen, a clear indicator of how really good what we're discussing is. Really, really, really good. So, no one who would give a soul to find you a grudge can find it for you. That's an indicator. Of course, when we talk about people who deal with these things, when we talk about people who know what a university is, who know what a scientific community is, that's how it is. Those who don't know, they can afford the luxury of saying other things, I don't. As for those solutions that we have provided for this bill, many have spoken of it. I don't want to repeat all that. Why is it important to ensure a stable, clear funding through institutional, so that today there is no question of elemental existence at all, and on the other hand it makes a good space, that when we say project, competition, competition, that it really makes sense. You have no obligation to worry about morals or anything else anymore, but I've got someone to approve of the proposal, even though it's not the best of quality, because I'm afraid if it runs out of funds, it'll disappear. No, that's not a question anymore. We now say clear competition, a clear match, let them win the best, and that we know what we finance and why. That's a big difference. That's what we do when we talk about this law, and why it's good, so not only for these people who today, so both at university and institutes, will have more security and significant resources than before. Why do we say it's a good bill? Because it gives you the opportunity to see the benefit of everything. Here, just four or five notes, you don't need any more. The example works, it's good for the state that now this law will have the opportunity to define those jobs and those needs defined by the state itself. To address this scientific community which is financed by or by those actors that she herself has established, and now they are dealing with this type of business and are financed by the state and to say – the state interest is that, I expect results from you. We expect you to deal with those tasks that the state has defined. Big difference. Secondly, involving diaspora scientists, we've already talked about it today, isn't that a valuable result? We talk so much that we care about people coming back, those who have left or some who are thinking about changing the environment still stay in Serbia. We provide concrete and clear mechanisms for those people who want to come to Serbia to know where they come from, what they come for and what they can expect. Many of them, once again, recognize that intention and are already taking advantage of that opportunity. Third, the opportunity to further confirm in postgraduate studies the participation of those who are involved in both science and research, practical things, but also in business, so that our young people who are schooling can learn to be even more ready for work tomorrow, to be more ready to bite the future. I think it's worth it. Let's move on, technology transfer security, those words that some don't like, "startup", "spinof" but these are things that provide a singer to do something good and valuable tomorrow. So, let's not get caught up in a regular, often colotheted everyday life and deal with some project that someone approved ten years ago, and then extend it after four, then extend it after two, then two and all hope that's how it's gonna go on forever. So, what's it for? Nobody even knows anymore. No, it's about creating what we're going to offer ourselves, which is what we're going to attack the market. Well, try to beat the rest of them, and then make that firm that's starting to start over is worth more to us. So we go out into the world, and we show that we can drive out, and the ones from the science and technology park, and more than half the exports. These are people who already think that way, who have already shown that they can be successful. We want as many as we can, of course. The bill says, we want to support them, to make them as much as possible. Finally, this story of how we fight for the future, how we provide the future for young experts, this bill introduces a legal mechanism, a basic, whatever you want to call, to take care of the housing needs and issues of these people. Is that a valuable thing? Is that something to ignore? I think she'll rather be worth it than something we shouldn't brag about if we deserve it, and we deserve it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two days ago, Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic announced that there is a period ahead of Serbia that is likely to represent the largest, most significant investment cycle. A cycle that will total up to about five to ten billion euros. We're talking about fantastic things. So, about those projects, the development of infrastructures that are the most attractive possible, we're talking about corridors that weren't there, we're talking about a railroad that wasn't there, we're talking about a famous subway, but we're talking about building that infrastructure that's a really dry need, and it's worth a lot of money, and it's been waiting for, like, seventy years, for us to get into these things. Today we can, of course and have therefore, thanks to the serious and responsible work we have done together, starting with the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic, through the Serbian Government and beyond, so today we have these things from where to finance. That sewer system that really is worth tens of millions of euros, but also those corridors whose value is hundreds of millions, all those things that will help us not only to have what we need but also to help Serbia get a further job. In these and such projects, these and such investments are certain, be assured, there is a good space for those investments like those we are talking about today. So, what Serbia is already doing, that it can do even more important, even more convincingly - to finance these scientific and technological parks and these new jobs, the top quality, the most attractive, for young researchers and experts, to promote the formation of new companies, but also to co-operate with experienced businesses, to compete again to make it even better than it is today, and on the Shanghai List, where we have the University of Belgrade, and only 2% of the universities are on that list, on the world level. That's great. Well, we want to be even better than that. And on the Scimago list, where we're ranked as 51st in the world, that's great. We want to be even better than that. We need to create such conditions that wherever he goes, a young expert can say - I am proud of the country I come from, it is a country that competes with everyone in the world equally, which has no fear of anyone, because he knows that he can offer a lot and knows that he can be equal to anyone; I come from a country that builds up those corridors that he was not 70 years old, and today he creates his own future; I come from a country that is so highly ranked on world lists and who is bravely attacking even better positions and even more trying to offer, from Serbia, which in tens of millions of euros manages to provide good projects for himself. That he can say that to anyone honestly, and also when he's at home, and of course, at home, he's very happy to stay and be proud to be there. So she can think and say to herself, "I come from a country of hardworking and successful people, a country that has shown itself to create its future in the right way." To say, I come from Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55842	Thank you. We move on to the list, the order of MPs according to the application for word in the principle of the proposal for a law on science and research. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55843	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, since I attended public hearings, can indeed testify to the great interest of all present and commendation expressed at the expense of this bill. It has been a great benefit to me as a MP, because there have been experts present, who carry the most responsible functions in relation to the institutions involved in science in this country, so it is indeed commendable for the whole team that has worked on the draft of this law. On the other hand, it also encourages that we will finally get equal chances for young researchers, for young talents in our country, to be competitive on the world scientific market. This is what I'm saying as someone who deals with science, because in the previous period, after the introduction of the Bologna process, we were in crisis that the real science goes away from the university, and especially the one that gets socio-humanist sciences, because the Bologna process has somewhat limited it, and essentially, the institutes, research centres are those who can contribute to this common bond that will further define the status of higher education institutions along with institutions as very important factors of further development of science and scientific research, contribute to the further young talents, young researchers, who are just beginning to be equal opportunities with those who, for example, in far more developed countries, begin to practice science. This makes us an extremely important factor in the world's science market. It also encourages this news today that the Science Fund has issued the first public call for young researchers. Because it really matters, let's say, to every young researcher to get funding, to make sure that someone's first big research ends up in a way that doesn't have to get nervous, look for, beg for finance, to achieve top-notch results that benefit not only him, but to our whole society. Of course, these conditions that I was talking about are very important for institutes, for people who work at institutes and who allow young researchers to gain safety, because without that security it is very difficult to deal with science. Without certainty in, to put it this kind of financial status, that you will be provided, young people who complete studies, especially those talents, are leaving this country and the countries in the region. And with this kind of action, I'm convinced they're going to stop a further outflow of talent, because they're getting a chance to be here, with the care of the institutions, to deal with science and to develop their own projects, to develop their own theories and to contribute to society as a whole. Also, another feature that delights us is precisely technological and scientific parks that will develop. I am pleased that the minister today has shown a desire for such a park to be built in the future in Novi Pazar, Sandzak, Raška region, where we will certainly have a large number of interested, especially young talent, people who are crying for equal opportunities and who can contribute to the extremely further development and positioning of our country when it comes to its status or level in world terms and when it comes to further development of science. Of course, that idea isn't new. The idea has been present for some time, and already our president, Mr Zukorlic, has repeatedly insisted on it. In any case, we MPs, Justice and Reconciliation parties, support this law and consider it a major step forward. By giving young researchers the chance to take advantage of their knowledge, their experiences, their skills in the best way and to take advantage of what they have learned and to be supported by institutions and therefore, as a society, we, first of all, benefit greatly. Finally, I underline once again that this process of supporting young people is not retrograde, as we could hear in some previous talks, but in fact the way that a base for a serious scientific environment is created and that the experts from our country are again appreciated at a world distance, as once in the former Yugoslavia were respected experts from all areas, wherever they came in the world and where they had privileged status, because it was about serious education and serious researchers who left behind and what a deep trail in almost all areas of scientific research throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55844	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55845	Thank you, Vice President. My first part of the presentation does not refer to this item of the agenda, but to the application of the President and Vice-President of the Maya and the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to respond – why is the National Assembly still working in extraordinary circumstances? In fact, there is still a ban on citizens from MPs without the prior consent of the Secretary-General, which was not a practice earlier, except for visits from abroad, which I believe is necessary, for a number of reasons, but when citizens of Serbia, with their personal documents issued in Serbia, come to visit the MPs, I do not see why it must be announced in advance, does the MP receiving those citizens not guarantee that there will be no excess by that visitor in the National Assembly? I ask you to consider it at the college, the presidents and the president and the secretary-general and to resolve the issue, because it is really inappropriate for Serbian citizens to be unable to come to the National Assembly without a special processor. The second question is for the minister of education, science and technological development. This is the question – is there a database of Serbian researchers abroad such as the owner of Professor Jovan Filipovic with the FON within his GEPS association or other researchers in Serbia? But they're incomplete databases and they're not state official databases. I think that would be extremely important for all researchers in Serbia and that they could contact these researchers abroad and achieve their co-operation in the field of research. Thirdly, also for the minister, but also for the funds of public information, it is – a fourth-year student of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Milos Grubor won gold at the Microelectronics Olympics. This was not published by the public service, it did not publish any means of information in Serbia, it was not recorded on the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development site. I think such information should also be present on the Ministry's website. Normally, it should not be done by the minister, but it exists within the Ministry of Service, which should be dedicated to young people who win such recognitions, such as students of the Mathematical High School, physicists, etc. to some news at the Ministry of Science and Education site. Also, are there rules that predetermined what the winners of gold, silver and bronze receive in the Olympics and world championships in knowledge? Do they get scholarships in advance? We know what athletes get and there's a lot of information about it. We also remember the scene when recognition winners were due in a knowledge contest to be promoted together on the Belgrade City Assembly terrace with athletes the same night. Unfortunately, they did not appear because, apparently, the static terrace was not enough to withstand their weight, which is indeed an inappropriate explanation. Furthermore, it is good for the ministry to open up competitions to finance monographs, but here is now the second competition for financing monograph publishing and what has fallen behind my eye is that there can be no results of research that have not been created by scientific research projects that have been co-financed, or financed by the restoring ministry. Are there no scientific works that are created beyond participation in projects, especially to limit the results of these research to a period of only the last four years if a capital scientific work resulting from 30 years of research is published? I don't think he's in the right place.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55846	Thank you, Professor. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55847	Dear Professor, we are currently in the making of a large system, so-called The unique information system of education and there are now numerous registers, including researchers. This law, which is now in the Assembly, very clearly defines the position of our young or human, regardless of what age, which are researchers living outside. Researchers' registers will be updated and we care very much about it, so Article 113 of this law has just been regulated. Making all these registers and professors at university and high school professors, primary schools, means a complete system is digitized. We'll have absolutely all these bases in one real way. In this JISP, of course, there is that JOB, a unique educational number that has a student, student, etc., but also many other registers related to salary payments, material costs, etc. It's one big job, and I think we'll have a lot of work to do by the end of the year. So he's scheduled to work next year, but the registers are in some kind of priority. I don't know how to share my opinion with you. We have a very small PR service. We almost don't have one. We're missing 90 people in the Ministry itself because of the Employment Prohibition Act, so when we're somewhere outside or anywhere, there's no one to follow any of the events, although I regularly, whatever I hear or come to me, I'm calling, so now that they're veterans from Novosadski, whether they're students of Aero-engineering Machines or any other stuff. Wherever I find out, I'm doing it and calling, but there's something left to miss. But let me share with you an impression. When we became a full member of CERN, what should be repeated, because Serbia was in the part of Yugoslavia, I say Serbia in the part of Yugoslavia, which in 1985, in 1986, produced parts for the accelerator. So that's what Lola Institute was doing. So we were a very, very serious state and Serbian science within that. CERN is a large system and many billion euros are the budgets of the institute itself. So that's where the economy is. We now have the right to participate with good managers in public procurement and to significantly accelerate the development of our economy, but when we invited all the people from the scientific community and the media to mark this event. We thought the public needed to know a little bit more. Do you know who came? Just the Tanjug on our call. No one was interested, printed, or electronic media, of national importance and whatever. It's just saying what kind of social environment we live in, even though, well, we've tried that. We resent it – much is not visible. Well, when we want it to be visible, it's likely that few people are interested, so a series of these remarks of yours remain that will certainly happen. At the scholarship, you know, we have a condition that someone gets a scholarship at any level of education is that they had a competition and that they won awards. I agree that they need to be increased and we're going to be very quick with a new law in this House, and I'm talking about dual studies, because now companies are reporting as financiers, and money is being released to make these scholarships even bigger. I think others should be scholarshipd, starting from local self-government to all other organs. And the Ministry of Sport and Youth has significant scholarships, so they may not be visible in this place, they're not as big as athletes when they win some gold medals at any level, but I'm trying to make it more visible and make those awards bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55848	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55849	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are sitting in the National Assembly of the State in which the most numerous people are Serbs. The Serbs gave the world's science a lot. Let's just think of those applicable ones. That's what we from the village like most. So let's not think of the great philosophers, to remember Nikola Tesla, Smiljan, to remember Milutin Milankovic. It's in Croatia today. It was probably supposed to be Serbia. Let's think of Michael Pupin, Idvor, friend of Woodr Wilson, founder of NASA, to remember all of those minds that gave the world the most that one nation could give from the most accurate calendar since the founding of NASA, from electricity, the master of lightning. To remember all these scientists, why do I say that? I want science to teach me at this age. Whoever stops learning, it's like riding a bike – it falls fast. What I'm saying is that science is not a copying school, it's research, it's impossible to make it possible. That's what these giants were doing that I tried to talk about. They all come from the village. The Croats expelled Serbs, but still do not know that both the genetic, cultural, scientific advances of Serbs in Serbia. To put it harshly, they crossed Pupino and Tesla. It has to give its result. So I advocate that we adopt this law and that knowledge be real knowledge, not a copying school, and that knowledge be transferable, but also applicable. In the other part, my friend, who also lives in the country, Milija Miletic, will speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55850	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go, pal Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55851	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, will not be angry if I appoint professors. Popović and Prof. Lazovica, and to show the satisfaction that you are here today, to present to us the draft law on science and research. Dear Ministers, my first address at the National Assembly in 2016, was on the Law on Higher Education, where I was then talking about the need to bring high education and scientific and research together and the need to bring those two social sectors closer together. I then pointed out that some of the things that are positive and that have been done in the Law on Higher Education were not done in the Law on Science, on scientific and research activity and that these things need to be harmonised. Dear Minister, I said this more then as the need and desire of the institute, without the hope that this question and for decades anyone will consider it. Really, it happened all the best. You then told us, the MPs, that there would be a new Law on Science in which these questions would be resolved. And indeed, all due respect to you for keeping your promised words and respecting a number of scientific workers and institutions. I believed it because I knew you were a man of enormous energy and a man of success. Thank you, normally, and all the other participants in this process and the Prime Minister and all those involved in law-making, I'm going to pop up, the task force. Thanks to this comprehensive work today, this law is ahead of us in the best possible form. It also showed public debate and public listening, where indeed a high unity was shown that the law is good and that it should be adopted as soon as possible. I have to say, as a researcher who's been doing research for about 25 years, I'm very happy. Why? Because for decades in large numbers, these top scientists have placed them in some specialized services. What's that, I don't get it now, they were top-notch, and they weren't anybody's. Although the state of Serbia is the founder of scientific institutes, employees did not have profits, they were already on the classical market. In every founding act, every institute stands for what the state establishes it for, and there are a number of jobs that are necessary for the state and that researchers and employees of the institutes should do. On the other hand, no one provided them with these jobs but they had to cope with each other in different ways. Although they say project funding was a social category, I must say, it wasn't enough as it was. Even when you take all the researchers' profits, direct material costs, about 55% was enough for institutions to function. It was very common, I know in previous periods, that only half of the projects went through, if you reported four projects, went through two projects or one, someone passed four. Which project will pass, not to say absolutely, depended on the co-operation and relations of the institution, the resident or the researcher's reviewer. In this way someone always fell out of the project if they had good references and if there were correct criteria and people were left without profit. But I don't want to talk about the lack of this system of work that is definitely going into history, as I hope, about the need to improve work in science and the need to look at its importance for the overall development of the country. The dilemma can't be anymore. Do we need scientific knowledge and experience, and we don't need to ask ourselves, because that would be like asking ourselves in the past decades if we needed doctors, engineers, lawyers, economists, professors, doctors. Now it's the 21st century, and there's no such thing as a dilemma. The results of scientific research represent the basis or basis on which the entire modern, scientific, technological civilization rests. The role of science as a collection of all existing knowledge of the world in which we live and scientific research as the work through which these knowledge expands, in modern society is multiple. An active scientific policy that is necessarily run by all developed countries is trying to align all components of this most complex human activity. The absolute amounts that individual countries invest in this activity are directly proportional to their power, and reversing their power at this time depends to the greatest extent on that amount. Evidence of this is the most competitive and dynamic world economy, countries such as Japan, China, Germany, Scandinavian and many others. Countries are not investing in science because they are developed, but to raise their development, influence and wealth. I must also say that Europe is not now closed to our scientific potential. I must say that it is very open and that there is no scientific institution or higher education institution that has not at least one international project funded from Brussels under various programmes. Science and research are recognised by the European Commission as key policy holders, which contribute to economic growth and job creation. Knowledge as the most important intellectual resource is becoming increasingly relevant, while the existence of a stable research system is seen as a driving force that contributes to improvement, the quality of life in modern society. For this reason, both EU member states have decided to gradually increase funding that invests in science, research, until it reaches the level of 3 per cent of GDP investment. A growing investment in science and research is expected to boost both competitiveness and growth in economic activities. The EU is investing increasingly in the development and implementation of strategies and programmes providing a quality framework for the implementation of scientific research and innovation development. Through research in Chapter 25, which is to be fully included in the European scientific space through the completion of the tasks set out in Chapter 25, the Republic of Serbia should be fully involved in the European scientific space and, together with other members, through the establishment of an innovative Union, as an initiative that allows Member States to unite all scientific capacities and improve communication and co-operation between scientists and researchers. Science and research oblige Member States to develop their ability to implement it, in order to follow the objectives and activities of research and technological development. As a member of the EU, Serbia will have the opportunity to position its research community within the European Research Area in the coming period, thus enabling its further scientific and research development to increase the overall education of society, promote the quality of science through the implementation of numerous research and innovation and integration in science, education and economy, will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Serbian economy. As part of a common research space, Serbian scientists will be able to provide intensive mobility and improvement across the EU, where new technologies and modern laboratories will be available. On the other hand, Serbia's scientific space as part of the European Research Area will become more interesting to European and world scientific research. Historical successes of Serbian scientists are known in the world. Culture and science represent European and civilization values that heritage and Serbia are. The science and technology sector of Serbia is one of the few already internationally integrated and evaluated results achieved and recognised. I don't have time to talk about all the advantages and detail of the law itself and its contribution to the development of science and the development of the Republic of Serbia. Only in the end will I say that this research will increase the economic and social development of the Republic of Serbia and contribute to public research, social and economic development and allow researchers to carry out research beyond the academic sphere. One more sentence. We believe that the deep-seated opinion of the scientific community that businessmen have no understanding of their work, and the opinion of businessmen that scientists are dealing with what they do not need is changing with the proposal for this proposal for a law on science and research, whose adoption I propose on behalf of the SPS and Green Serbia on that list. Both the Socialist Party of Serbia and the SPS MPs will vote in favour of the Law on Science and Research in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55852	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55853	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was selected from the list he was wearing and led by Alexander Vukic, and I represent in the Assembly of Members of the United Peasants' Party. As before, I'm going to say positive things about this law. Witnesses only that before us, a large number of people who created, built, worked on innovations in our country, were people who were born in the country, lived in the country, started from the village, and managed to improve the lives of all of us. This law gives the possibility to invest more in science, in research, because the previous law has shown that through the project financing of learned institutes, it has not produced enough results. We're giving this opportunity now, and I'm sure it'll be the right thing to do. Now I'm going to put more emphasis on the city of Nis, where there is a cornerstone in Nis for building a science and technology park, on the plateau of the Faculty of Electronics, where over the next year it is certain that people who have knowledge, who want to work on innovation, will have the opportunity to work there because the state of Serbia, our president and through the budget are provided with the means that the city of Nis will once again be a city that has the opportunity to become what was once best for electronics, as it is said, in Europe. Nis, the centre of southeastern Serbia, will be able to build this tech park. This will be very important to us because a large number, as I said earlier, of people who are in southeast Serbia, who have the ability to know, will be able to apply it, to do something that will be good for our future generations. Otherwise, what we're doing right now, we're doing for the future of our people, our children and our children. Now I'm going to say something, it is about this law, but something that matters to us coming from a small environment. Today, at the local assembly in Srlig, budget rebalancing is the opportunity to finance children who enter the first year of secondary education, by 5,000 dinars, that children who enter the first year, the second year, have the opportunity to stay in those small places, and later through colleges, when a science and technology park is built, these children will have the opportunity to spread their knowledge. So we must start from the beginning, from our villages, from our small local self-government to the great people. As Mr Rističevic, Milutin Milankovic, who is our man, said earlier, who made a bridge across the Timok River in the part of Svrlig, which now serves as an example to all those who have done so. Once again, distinguished ministers, I will support all your proposals, because what you are doing, it is necessary for our country to Serbia through science, through research, through this investment, we have a chance to have better production and agriculture and electronics and all that is needed for the lives of our people, to stay here in Serbia, to stay on their land, to work here for the benefit of all of us. The United Peasant Party, whose president I am, and I as a People's MP, will support the bill. I am sure this law will give the opportunity to invest and to know the future of our future scientists who have been coming and coming, surely, from small places, from our villages. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55854	Thank you. The word is Maria Yevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55855	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, the proposed Law on Science and Research is a law that should introduce order in science, given that the existing law was passed in 2005. What is one of the main reasons for the adoption of the law and for ensuring security in financing the work of the institute through the idea of institutional financing in order to ensure permanent income. A unique Serbia believes that the adoption of the proposed law provides a scientific research sector that can be an equal partner with its work within the European Research Area. When we talk about the Bill on Science and Research as a roof law in the field of science, it should be mentioned that last year we adopted the Law on the Science Fund and thus took the first step in a major reform of the science system in Serbia. And you, Minister, have announced it as one of the key reforms in education. I think our scientists, or scientific researchers in the previous period of time, have shown that they can achieve envious results with little money in different legal frameworks. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that we should repeat. That is why I want to take the opportunity to congratulate our scientific community on joining the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, making Serbia a 23rd full member of this prestigious scientific organisation. This is certainly a great recognition for our scientists who will have the opportunity to access the latest scientific equipment in addition to raising the quality of scientific research. A unique Serbia believes that membership in CERN will also affect the prevention of youth leaving our country. In addition to the scientists themselves, the Serbian economy will benefit from this membership, as our companies will be able to participate in CERN's tenders to a greater extent and compete equally with big and successful global companies. Serbia, i.e. this government, puts great emphasis on helping young scientists and systematically supports science, creating better conditions that will allow our young people to stay in the country and their future research work is currently being carried out at our universities and institutes. And the wish of your ministry, Mr. Sarcevic, is that institutes deal with matters important to the state and thus contribute to both the state and society. The proposed law also provides for safe funding for researchers in colleges, in case they do not get the call of fellow scientists, the state will finance their doctoral studies over the next five years. In the meantime, a system solution will surely be found for them, and they will be able to be part of a team that will exercise the right to a project. Otherwise, by not passing this law, they would have lost their engagement before the end of the year. A unique Serbia believes investment in education and training is the basis for building a strong and modern Serbia, and it is important to build a system of values that will foster a society of equal opportunities for all. It is commendable, Mr. Minister, that the Ministry supports the involvement of foreign returnees in domestic projects, but your Ministry is working to promote knowledge from the earliest age of students, approaching science to the youngest. You are also attending the research seminar “Scientific Contact or Game of Science”, which took place in the Kingdom in the rooms of the Goč Children’s resort, in collaboration with the city and the University of Kragujevac’s Natural-Mathematic Faculty. The seminar brought together talented elementary school students from all over Serbia, who show interest in expanding knowledge from natural sciences. A unique Serbia believes that this approach to learning is very effective and that of the earliest ages it approaches science. If the goal is to develop our country as a knowledge-based economy, then as a society, we must strive to create conditions that will enable scientists and researchers to participate in the creation of strong and modern Serbia through their work and knowledge. The JS will therefore support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55856	Thank you, colleague Yevdzic. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55857	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a Law on Science and Research that I also want to talk about, since I have been doing research for more than 40 years. The proposal for this law recognises science and research as a matter of particular importance for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as a knowledge-based society. Developed countries of the world have long recognised the importance of science, innovation for sustainable economic growth, and therefore invest significant funds in the area. EU members on average invest about 2% of GDP in science. Serbia has significant scientific and research potential. There are more than 12,000 researchers in our country. As we have heard, Serbia has become 23 full members of the prestigious European Organisation for Nuclear Research and with Norway and Switzerland is the only full member of this organisation, which is not a member of the EU. Serbian science has been recognized in the world. The University of Belgrade has been positioned on the prestigious Shanghai list for years, and since last year, the University of Novi Sad has also positioned it, but unfortunately the total allocations for science in 2017 amounted to 0.9% of GDP, although you, Mr. Minister, pointed out that these investments will be up to 1.5%. Also, the orientation of scientific research towards economics is relatively low, so that in a global report on the competitiveness and quality of university content and economy Serbia is 79th among 140 countries. Scientific and research results are dominated by scientific papers. Out of the total number of results achieved on scientific and research projects financed from the 2011-2015 budget, patents and technical solutions accounted for only 3.3%, while the participation of scientific papers was 88%. One of the main shortcomings is the transfer of knowledge from university laboratories to a company where the knowledge would apply. Applied research needs to be encouraged, and this means encouraging the transition of academic scientists to the economy and vice versa. A consistent strategy for scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia for the period 2016 to 2020, as a strategic goal in the field of research science and as one of the main reasons for promoting scientific research in the Republic of Serbia, is also a fundamental change in the model of funding for scientific and research activities, which is one of the basic reasons for the adoption of a new law in the fields of science and research. A similar model is otherwise applied in many developed countries. The change in the system of funding for scientific and research work has been done with the aim of improving the system, ensuring stable financing and making use of budgets in an efficient and optimal manner. The strategy envisions the development of the funding model in line with the reform of the research system. The ultimate objective of reforming the financing of scientific and research work is to establish a balanced combination of project and institutional financing. Institutional funding will have two components that will ensure stable funding and development that depends on the degree of performance parameters being met. The establishment of a special fund for research incentives, i.e. project financing, is also envisaged to encourage research through competitions to finance the best projects. Science and research as a work of general interest are realised by scientific and research organisations through the programmes set out in this law, as well as the programmes set out in the law governing the work of the Science Fund of the Republic of Serbia, creating the basis for a combined financing system envisaged by the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020. The National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, the Committee for the Accreditation of Scientific and Research Organisations, the Scientific Calls Commission, parent scientific committees, the Community of the Institute of Serbia and the Ministry are working to ensure the quality of scientific and research work and development in the Republic of Serbia. A significant newspaper refers to the parent committees, i.e. it is intended to put into place, for the time being, the procedure for selecting the scientific calling – a scientific associate, which is the most numerous, all in order to implement this process more effectively. Also, the law stipulates that decisions are being made to acquire two of the most scientific titles, a senior scientific associate and a scientific adviser, is being educated by a commission to acquire these scientific titles. The implementation of the law will allow better co-operation between institutes and universities, partnership with economics, other ministries in the realisation of strategic objectives and international organisations to implement joint programmes. The proposal for this law found that the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development is the most professional advisory body in the system of scientific and research work in the Republic. The responsibilities of the National Council, including a new competence, are foreseen, which is to give an opinion on the five-year report by scientific and research organisations on the implementation of the institutional funding programme. At the same time, in the part of the annual report on the state of science for the previous year, the National Council will include proposals and suggestions for next year's work of the Science Fund. In order to carry out quality evaluation tasks of scientific and research work, accreditation of scientific and research organisations is educated by the Committee for Accreditation of Scientific and Research Organisations. Their composition and their jurisdiction have been established. The paper in relation to the previous law is that the Accreditation Committee implements the accreditation procedure every fifth year at the request of a scientific and research organisation, which is a regular procedure, or within a short time period, at the request of the Ministry, which is an emergency procedure. The regular procedure for accreditation of institutes of national importance shall be carried out every ten years. I would point out that the law also regulates the issue of property rights on the results of the research, with the rights and obligations as well as procedures in this area being more precisely governed in relation to the previous legal solution. It is predicted that the Ministry shall keep records of scientific and research organisations that meet the conditions for carrying out scientific and research activities of general interest, and in accordance with this law, i.e. to establish a register of scientific and research organisations, as well as to keep records of researchers, i.e. a register of researchers, and to educate databases within the framework of the implementation of the programmes set out in this law. As a newspaper compared to the previous legal solution, it is also expected that the register contains data on scientific and research equipment for scientific and research organisations. In addition to legal solutions that define what persons are considered researchers, call researchers, obtaining calling, selecting researchers in scientific calling, re-election procedures, and conditions and procedures for taking up calls, the law provides for the adoption of codes of conduct in scientific and research work, as well as the education of the Committee on Ethics in science. Another newspaper in relation to the previous legal solution is that new regulations by researchers can exercise the right to rewards, recognitions for exceptional scientific achievements and life's work in accordance with an act governing the award and recognition of the minister. As I have already said, institutional financing of accredited institutes, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government or SANU, has been established, and it covers funds for researchers' salaries in scientific and research titles and funds for other costs of scientific and research work. It has been defined which funds are considered own revenue to be scientific and research incomes, scientific and research organisations and determines the purpose of these funds to improve the performance and raise the quality of work. That legislative solution is the first step towards equating regulation of this matter in relation to rules in higher education, and in subsequent alignments the rules follow, certainly full equalisation of the status of funding for staff at institutes and colleges in relation to their own incomes. I would particularly point out that a significant place in this law also takes up the financing of institutions and projects of particular national importance. So the law envisions funding other programmes of general interest, funding institutions of national importance, such as the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Mother of Serbia as an institute, founded by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Given all these proposed legislative solutions that are significantly improved and better regulated by the field of science and research, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55858	Thank you, colleague Bukvić. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55859	In order to practice science seriously, it is necessary to have and know the use of several potentials. First, science and scientific research always require a very serious budget. It is certainly limited, above all, to the actual economic and financial capacities of one country and on the other hand to the awareness of decision-making structures on the importance of science and scientific research. In this respect, our country certainly cannot compete with the great world powers and economies, but that is why our strength and ability lies in the next potential, which is primarily the potential of human resources, or talents among young people. In fact, what we have so far from very significant results and what very serious data shows is that this country, as well as the countries of the wider region, has very serious potential among talents, which, unfortunately so far is also confirmed and achieved more often outside our country, that is, in developed countries and diaspora than here. However, in recent years it has been noticeable to increase interest from the highest levels of government and through certain investments that we have heard above all about the affirmation of young people and talents, i.e. giving these people a chance to come to terms. The third, of course, is a good organization that needs a good law, which is actually the intention and this law to make a significant contribution in this sense. However, in order for the organisation to be very good, it is essential that, in addition to investments in science, in the metropolis, or capital, and already existing centres, it is very important that the determination to go towards the periphery is very important, in principle and on the principle of equal regional development that the chances of all parts of the country that young people can have the opportunity to show their potentials and their talents. In this sense, I would like to give strong support to the definition of the establishment of scientific and technological parks where it went quite seriously and continues, as I would like to thank my colleagues from Novi Pazar who supported our idea of establishing a scientific and technological park in the Sandzak area, more specifically in Novi Pazar. It is very important that we also have such a park in that part of the country where young and talented people will get a chance to show themselves and prove their opportunities. It is very important that this support comes from representatives and local self-government, whose partnership will be of great importance, and on this topic I already had a conversation with Mr. Minister a few months ago and I think we will have both the will and strength to install with the minister and the ministry, the local self-government in Novi Pazar all together, in fact, make the necessary contribution and support to one such technological park, a scientific and technological park, establish and establish in Novi Pazar. For the right and full dynamics of the affirmation of science, especially in young people and in general in researchers it is essential to establish a good system of evaluation. The evaluation system is actually one of the under-exploited energies for motivation, general research, and especially young people, because if we get such a valorisation and evaluation system, then we will certainly get those talents that are actually in our vicinity, but which may not be motivated enough and run enough. So, in addition to scientific and research, technology parks are needed, and I believe that this ministry will take into account, together with scientific and research institutions, certain premiums, certain rewards that will be important to talented people to actually make additional efforts and additional energy to achieve themselves, their goals and their talents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55860	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55861	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow MPs, in light of the overall reform process, the need for reform of scientific and research work has been highlighted. This law regulates the system of science and research. Education and science offer not only knowledge from different fields but also an opportunity to gain experience in what interests us and thus to build ourselves as a person. With education, we acquire the skills needed for different jobs, and by science we explore and thus make the world a better place to live. All praise the government of the Republic of Serbia as well as your ministry for their efforts to understand the great importance of science and scientific research and to keep the great potential of the Republic of Serbia in place and make the Republic of Serbia a better place to live. The Republic of Serbia has a significant scientific and research potential that should be further developed and more adequately used. It also proves that our people and fields of science are appreciated in the world. This potential can be the basis for the country's further economic and social progress. Thanks to the great involvement of the research community, the sciences of the Republic of Serbia have been highly positioned in international rankings. The key objective of this law is to create a scientific and research sector that, with its certainty, can be an equal partner within the European Research Area, which will positively affect Serbia's economic growth, as well as social and cultural progress. The science and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020 makes it clear that science is a key factor in competitiveness and sustainable development. Scientific papers are evaluated against their effects, creating new knowledge, economic development and addressing social challenges. The highly developed countries have adapted the system of science management and research organisations, as they have recognised the importance of science and innovation for sustainable economic growth and are investing significant funds in this area. This law regulates and regulates the system of science and research in the Republic of Serbia. Science and research together with higher education is the core and core of economic overall social development. It aims to acquire new knowledge and apply them in all areas of social development, create additional values for society, respecting the principles of protection and transport of intellectual property. The adoption of this law regulates and amends the model of funding for scientific and research work with a view to improving the system, ensuring stable financing and making use of budgets in an efficient and optimal manner. This law will strengthen institutions of national importance, create mechanisms to establish new institutions, monitor and assess the work of institutes more effectively and define a more efficient system of elections in scientific titles. Law enforcement will allow better co-operation between institutes and universities, partnership with economy and co-operation with international organisations to implement joint programmes. The quality of scientific and research work, as well as the construction and further development of an innovative knowledge-based society, will be improved. The law defines organisations that carry out scientific and research activities, institutes, institute bodies, keeping records of researchers, rights and obligations of staff at the Institute, financing scientific and research activities, supervision and transitional and final provisions. The need for reforms has been recognised by public policy makers, as well as by the scientific and research community. This law sends a message to young people, scientists, researchers that the country thinks of them and creates better conditions for life and work. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55862	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, I'd like to inform you that we're taking a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55863	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a National MP, a colleague of Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55864	Dear Mr. Minister, dear Professor Popovic, I must first pass on my impressions from public hearing, which I attended here in the Serbian Parliament and say that I was very pleasantly surprised that none of the present had any fundamental grudges on the bill of law that lies before us today, on the Law of Science, on the contrary, all were commended and except for some minor grudges, which essentially do not change this law. What also pleasantly surprised me is that out of a large number of remarks, which came to the address of the Ministry of Science during public debates, I think, between 130 and 140, a large number of them were adopted, which only speaks of the proposing's willingness to do indeed all the efforts to make the law that is being passed today as possible in the service of science and not to get into a situation to find ourselves back here in the Assembly in a year with some demands for its changes and additions. It is said that this is a historical law for science, in turn, that this law essentially addresses problems that have plagued science for many years, that by introducing a combined way of financing institutional and project predictability in work, everyone will know what awaits it. A note of uncertainty that brings unrest to the minds of researchers is removed, because if the researcher has to keep thinking about how he will provide a project for his work or for his doctoral studies student, who should be completed, you will agree that this is one significant difficult environment that can cause damage to every scientist during the course of doctoral dissertation, if we know that doctoral students are in one lifetime between 25 and 35 years and that this is the period when they can achieve the best results, eliminating this problem of financial uncertainty, significantly contributes to one carefree development of doctoral dissertation, strengthening its concentration. First of all, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia 4523 bjcv this law strengthens students of doctoral studies, which is very important. The current way of funding at the project level was such that almost everyone had to pass because it had to be ensured because it depended on the funding of scientists and in general funding within a scientific and research organisation. Of course, institutional funding does not mean that there will be no further stimulating science through projects, there is that fixed part and, of course, developmental, which will define each institution through the work programme at an annual level, which will clearly provide for certain measures that will be very measurable and parent committees in their new competence will have the obligation to evolve this work, to give their assessment and, in such a way, scientific and research organisations can further develop their scientific and research work. This model of support through a combined funding model will strengthen and enable research organisations to carry out research with concrete development objectives, together with research aimed at creating new knowledge. The applicability of research is also seen in the usefulness of research for the economic sector and this knowledge transfer improves the visibility and status of science in society and promotes economic growth. What is a very important newspaper and I think it will contribute significantly to the development of science in Serbia is a member of the 113st law that defines the relationship with the diaspora. The member predicts that a working scientist, somewhere abroad, and is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, has the opportunity to compete for projects called by the Republic of Serbia and, of course, based on a recommendation from the Commission or the Diaspora Co-operation Council. In this way, it will be possible to network the programmes of domestic researchers and our researchers who are on the job and abroad, to provide the possibility for scientific and research work in the Republic of Serbia to be more visible and visible in this way, to contribute to some new knowledge that will be placed in our country through this kind of networked projects and networked co-operation, we believe that we will raise the level in the Republic of Serbia and help some people back from the diaspora and further focus their knowledge on improving the economy and at all the level of the Republic of Serbia. And, another very important thing that I want to point out and that I was particularly pleased with is the financial resources from the Republic of Serbia's budget intended to implement other programmes of general interest set out in Article 12(3) of the Law, which provides that for these funds they have the right to compete with persons who have completed primary academic studies, master of academic studies, as integrated studies and who have enrolled doctoral academic studies, but something that is very important and that I really have to praise is that they will also have the right to compete for these funds in the final grade of secondary schools, which have won one of the first three places in international knowledge Olympics. In this way, a great deal of recognition is given to the students of the high school finals, who won one of the top three places in the international knowledge Olympics. Given that these are potential young scientists who already need to be trusted, I believe that this kind of stimulation will significantly affect the decision on further studies, and it will certainly reduce their parents' concerns in a moment when their wonderful and smart child tells them that he has decided to continue his studies abroad, that in this way we will do perhaps the first step towards solving a major problem that plagues Serbia, and that this is a brain drain, that we will show young, talented children that we really want them here and that their knowledge and talent are extremely important to us and that we will do everything to help them develop their talents to the desired goals and that all that will come as a result of tomorrow's studies, these new knowledge of use here in Serbia and contribute to Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55865	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the Law on Science and Research. There is no need to stress, and I feel free to say that it is one of the perhaps most important laws in every country and society at all. Today, however, it is mistakenly thought that all those who work at scientific institutes and who do science are scientists. It's not like that. Serious science and serious scientists are something else entirely. Let's just say, when the Americans decided to build an atomic bomb, their special services set out in search of the world's most invaluable physicists of the time. In doing so, they offered all the possible conditions and all the methods to bring these people together in one place and when they collected one critical mass of such people, we know the result, or, on the other hand, this is the principle today when, for example, mathematics is at stake. The mathematical elite exists only because in demand for top mathematicians, all mankind is being searched. So people from all continents, all social categories, otherwise, math would get into certain problems very quickly as science. True science, there's one saying that says, real science feeds on thoughts. Scientists, I'm talking about real scientists, they're people of the prophetic type. They tell the world something that wasn't there until then. Where do these ideas come from? Nobody knows that. Let's just say, the PSE Mendeleev tablet came up in her sleep, some things, so the key things came up in her sleep. Planet Neptune was discovered thanks to the budgets of French scientist Leverje. Not to mention the Archimedes running down the streets of Syracuse and saying, “Eureka! “, which means – I found. So science is one serious thing and the main ideas, those great ideas come up either by providence or by budgets, what they would say, at the top of the pen. For thousands of years, the source of light has been the flame we all know represents the interaction of flammable material and oxygen. They were all convinced in the axiom that a different way and a different procedure could not give them light. Even people tried everything, maybe they could imagine a smokeless candle, a smokeless torch, etc., but the electric lightbulb certainly couldn't imagine. The time came, Edison showed up, he thought differently, offered his concept of getting light. For the professional public at the time, what Edison offered seemed to be minors, they started making fun of him. However, Edison persisted on his own thing and got a thousand times as bright as it was before. It usually happens that mental people, mind individuals, ordinary people sometimes or very often seem funny. If a serious scientist spoke to an ordinary man and told him to do serious science, that ordinary man would grow up to believe that this scientist has a very strange business for today, because that's the way things are looked at. People can't understand that there's something they can't figure out and it's not surprising, because an ordinary man looking at the sun that's moving and a country that's not moving can hardly believe in budgets that speak the other way around. We know that the opinion has the same ingenuity as everything else and, say, the Irish philosopher Berkeley, and we know that he bears the name of one of the world's most prestigious institutes in California. He even wavered in mathematics at the same time as the queen of all exact sciences. He claimed that if once zero is equal to zero and if twice zero is equal to zero, then it turns out one is equal to two. Of course, that's when the exit was found that it was forbidden to multiply by zero. However, some mathematicians claim there is no logic in the ban. Simply, that thing was accepted as healthy for granted. The famous Austrian mathematician Gedel, in the 20th century, proved and showed that even mathematics is not an accurate science. Now, I don't want to go into the details, it's the same stuff for the same people who do it. Any system which rests on the laws of logic contains assumptions that, by relying on that same logic, cannot either prove or be disproved. Rene DeKart said his famous immortal thought – I think, therefore, I do. But even he did not answer some key questions, he did not answer the question of where that opinion came from. So his ideas weren't brought to a logical conclusion either. If all of this, which I was talking about here, we have in mind, then we can claim that things are even more complicated than DeKart just set up. So anything we touch can be questioned in certain doubt, starting with the very existence of God, and ultimately with the mathematics that I was talking about here. Of course, in mathematics itself, the basics of mathematics are axioms, and we know that axioms are thought to be such things that don't need evidence. But something that doesn't need proof, it's another area, it's faith. Now, we have a situation here that literally from the field of science, we move physics into the area of metaphysics. Metaphysical laws can't be as clear as, say, mathematically and there's a lot of doubt about it and in scientists themselves, of course I'm not talking about ordinary people. The most important thing in human history has happened against logic and there are many such examples. No logic can determine how geniuses make their plans come true, in which way they come up with some of the things they've discovered. Here, let's say, just one example. We've all heard and we all know about Kalashnikov, the scientist and his famous kalashnikov machine. While at that time all the constructors competed to reduce the vision, to create as precise weapons as possible, Kalashnikov set out in reverse order, he increased the visions between these parts, functional parts and it came to the conclusion that he made the best weapon of his time. So practice shows, and it shows many times, that I am many things and that everything cannot be explained rationally, and it also tried rationally to explain some things, not to explain, but even to the contrary, unforgivablely simplifying and twisting the result itself. The butterfly doesn't look like a caterpillar at all, even though we know it came from a caterpillar. So, a lot of things in science itself go down on the other side, on the paradox side, but right there, right on that side are the biggest ideas and the biggest and most important things in human history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55867	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55868	Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, the honourable representatives of the ministry headed by Minister Sarcevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Minister, allow me to publicly and openly congratulate you for leaving the N1 show bravely and with dignity, I would add the CIA, thus showing seriousness, and that I cannot frame you with unserious journalists who sometimes have a habit. Dear People's MPs, the enormous power of knowledge and science to create an innovative society, and the basic condition for creating such a society to eat the excellence and relevance of scientific and research results. We have to insist on that. So, the scientific and research results of all scientists will be ID cards, right at the beginning of the day, to say that this law will provide certain criteria on the basis of which it will be measured. Another great English philosopher, Francis Bacon, pointed to the special power of knowledge, and we've routed our society so that it will be based on knowledge in the future. He said, "Knowledge is power, a grain of knowledge is stronger than steel," the quote concluded. That is why the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has prepared this law on science and research, which aims, among other things, to provide what is most important to research and the state – stable funding. We heard what that means today. Let me say, as a man who has a long-standing practice, that in the past 20 years Serbia has never been more serious, more transparent and above all had a public debate on the law on science and research than this bill. This is, among other things, the result of the seriousness and commitment of you, Ministers Sarčević and State Secretary Professor Popovic and the Ministry in general, as well as of all those whose law on science and research concerns, including us, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament. Today in Serbia, there is no serious social factor that does not claim that science is a key factor in sustainable development and competitiveness, but also the creation of an innovative society that we are building by the process of speeding up Serbia's modernisation that we have promoted since 2014, and the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic. This law provides for a combined system of funding science and research. We're often asked by some researchers what it means, how we're going to get through it. This means that funding will be made through two components, firstly, the basic component that will ensure stable financing. Please, I'm strictly underlining here, gentlemen of the researchers who are following this transmission today, that doesn't mean that we don't have to give certain results in this basic component, or the state will provide stable funding, and we need to reach a level, show results for that part as well. I'll talk about it later. Secondly, a development component that will depend on the degree of performance parameters. That development component is not the same for everyone. She is set, but we don't all have the same range. For the first time in a more serious way, we will measure the success of every researcher, and that is the goal of society, to encourage more successful, faster and stronger. Therefore, the funding model provides for institutional financing of scientific and research organisations and for the establishment of a special fund for the incentive of research, so-called Project financing, and we have established this fund, and we have passed a law in this high house and thank you for that, gentlemen of the ministry, headed by the minister. Funding of institutional financing will be provided by founders, which means the Republic of Serbia, AP Vojvodina, SANU and local self-government units. Let me say, Mr. Minister, that for the first time in a more serious way, you are the only one with this law that has made it possible for SANU and its place in science and society in general. Institutional funding means, I should say, funds for salaries and other receipts of researchers. Please, gentlemen, not all the same wages will be made. In this part, we may also want to achieve a certain level of criteria, means of directing costs, means of professional and administrative staff, means of material costs, researchers and means of procurement, maintenance, depreciation, funds for scientific and research costs, etc. They'll know exactly, the tax ministry has listed it for the first time, I must say, an exact determination. Let's move on. When we look at the whole of this law, what is it that he brings? A more qualitative scientific and research paper, that is what Minister Sarcevic often points out, not only in science but also in educational and educational work in schools, primary, secondary and university schools. We've achieved some results here, we've gone into reform, but we're still going to work on it. By passing this law, we encourage, as I said, better scientific and research work, application of research results, done so far, but not sufficiently, better work by commissions, working bodies and other factors in the system, the whole system, especially the ministry. I must say, Mr. Minister, you've inherited a slightly more difficult situation when it comes to working bodies. There's people out there who've been in there 17 years. Some of them were the masters of the life and death of some researchers on the ground, especially in remote places, receiving for the sake of KIM, Vojvodina, outside Belgrade. I think that's where the situation has changed pretty well, but in the future, you've made this very clear to the law, to improve these commissions even better. Further, a contribution to the construction and development of an innovative society. What our researchers are most interested in are institutes. The law provides for three types of institutes – scientific institutes, research and development institutes and institutes of national importance for the Republic of Serbia. Please, it won't be easy to meet those criteria. It's going to have to be more and better achieved with our researchers. When it comes to researchers, let me just mention the newspaper, which you specifically underlined. It speeds up the selection of research intern. I think you've made great sense that it was a weakness in the current system, and the procedure is being conducted in front of the competent parent board of the ministry. That speeds up the process, it's been difficult for years. Secondly, the introduction of opportunities for researchers to receive rewards and recognitions. That's great stuff. Incentive needs, especially for younger researchers. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has also analysed all the weaknesses of the existing system, the dangers we face, and the potential opportunities they provide us with. I ask you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that has given the Ministry an extraordinary explanation in this bill, and I ask you to read in detail each of these parameters. It's never been in this country before. For example, the system's weaknesses are precisely tax-based, low-level total investment, below 1% of GDP in research and innovation. Now, that is, but given the economic strength of society, our science has achieved certain results, especially in the last three or four years, but that doesn't mean that it can't do better in the future. The absence of strategic governance was not sufficient. A small number of researchers per capita, that's a certain weakness. The lack of a mechanism to co-operate science and economy has now begun to be established, for the last two or three years, but the ministry has very well underlined that this needs to be further promoted and better co-operation between science and economy. Furthermore, a small number of licensed technologies and a small number of patents and technical solutions. So, we're glad this was taxed. That's what the gentleman said in the public debate, participants in the public debate. The benefits of the system. A lot of people say we don't have the advantage. The operating system has advantages. A significant number of scientific papers in the VOS. It's a significant number. Given how much we stand out for science, we take a significant place on world rankings. A significant level of research excellence, especially in the field of physics, new materials, etc. technology, the application of research results, the increase in the number of researchers, the share of the scientific works of international co-operation 35%. Now you'll probably say - you can do better. Of course you can do better, but this is a significant result. Support for innovation development through the Innovation Labour Fund, Support for the Science Fund, International Expert Support to the Science Fund, etc. However, the dangers that lurk in the future, thank you, Mr. Minister, for warning us to leave the country of higher education. I have two sentences to say here. Many opposition MPs object to the moss of leaving the country by means of highly educated people. That's what happened in the past, you know. As a historian, I can tell you, from the old age to today, labour mobility, qualified, has always been a dominant, especially now that our global village is the whole world. It's going and it's a normal phenomenon, but you've done a great job of apostrophe - leaving high school people out of the country, that you should work on it. Furthermore, a low level of economic development, due to a situation where we are also low level of interresor coordination in research funding. In particular, it has been established now, for the last two years, between the ministries, and probably next year and better, and so on, that I do not quote any further. You further gave the possibilities of the system, the willingness of the research community for change. I have to tell you, we rarely had that in the past. That's what we've done now, you know why? The wide public debate and transparency that you, as Minister and Ministry, are conducting throughout. That's the argument from the opposition benches. In public hearing, there is no representative from the Institute who has not accepted co-operation, and has also made a positive statement on this law. A clearly defined human resources development programme in science, as well as in resources in general; membership in international programmes, possibility of participation of researchers. Here, that's where the professors are supposed to prove themselves. Mr. Jovo Bakić should show himself here, not for the third time, the doctor, and there are no conditions for the doctor. I would like the Ministry of Education's inspection here to see that there are no conditions, or the University of Belgrade Senate to look at it a little bit, whether our Professor Jovo has third conditions for a choice for a doctor. General trend in increasing mobility of higher education staff, etc. In general, a Science Fund was formed. Please, gentlemen researchers, this fund will go excellently, but one piece will not be found there, you know. Because we're not equal value. For the first time now, we have to simply classify ourselves, by value, by knowledge, by activity, etc. In general, let me say that by this law we have connected research institutions for colleges, or researchers at the university, even though the gentlemen at the university are more comfortable in that part. Especially in this when I say, let me say now, and that teaching-science part. There's a lot of talk about our students. Let me say, since I've taken the floor, our distinguished professor Dubravka Stojanović is 17. On 02 May 2014, she said, "Serbia lost 700,000 people in the First World War" and thus reduced the number of Serb victims by 400,000 and thus placed itself in the ranks of the largest forgers of the number of Serb victims in World War I and World War I, along with historian and scientist Franjo Tudjman and academician Stjepan understand, who claims that 5,000 people were killed in Jasenovac. And that's not all. The distinguished professor opposes the rise of a monument to Serbian hero Milan Tepic and Gavril Principe. And that's not all. The distinguished teacher said: "Gavrilo is a terrorist, not an assassin. "Respected university professors, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, write only in Austrian and German textbooks. Professor Stojanovic insists that, I quote, Serbia give up Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska, a quote is completed. She said that, I quote, Serbia's biggest problem that won the wars was the completion of the quote, which means it should have been a fascist loser. The distinguished professor doesn't know, and she should know or pretend she doesn't know that the Serbian people's winning and free spirit is an integral element of Serbian national identity. On July 19, 2018, she said that the same elites that made the war in Serbia in the 1990s and 2000s are in their interest to forget responsibility, the quote was completed. Can you gentlemen, university professors and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe this is said by a university professor? She does not know that the war was waged by the United States and the EU, namely Germany and the Vatican, along with domestic secessionists Croatia and Slovenia. There's not a single serious historian in the West today who won't claim what I said. Let me now say about the science that we also have academics in SANU who have brought down their academic level, so for example Dr Dusan Teodorovic, morning after the Belgrade elections, on 5 March 2018 on TV N1, the CIA said, quote, that the elections were won thanks to pig patets with President Vukic's character, free burgers in Ripanja and bringing voters from Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Kralje, finished quote. Respected citizens of Serbia and respected university professors, respected academics, can you believe that this respected academic, candidate of the Alliance for Serbia, for the President of the Republic of Serbia, and he so much hate for the president of the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, shows that when the name of Mr. Vukic is mentioned, and I will demonstrate, he shows hatred, he has the hatred of the whole body, especially the head, which is why he is known in the people and is known as the academic head of the earthquake. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, today I was speaking on the parliamentary issue of Mr Jova Bakic, to finish this with him. The fake doctor, Dr Jovo Bakic, is due for the third time to face the accusations of the academic community's work on scarce scientific biography and suspicious criteria for which he became a doctor for the third time, not that every day, every afternoon he goes and muds out the respected president, his family, his father and mother. Allow me, Mr. Minister, in the end to say that the law is extraordinary and that I am sure, knowing you, Mr. Popovic, Mr. Lazovic and the rest of the ministry that we will implement this law as it deserves and how the Academian Community and citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55869	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55870	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Sarčević, Mr Popovic, Mr. Lazovic, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about this law that is before us, I must say that I have followed and that the law has long been prepared and was thoroughly done on it and therefore there were no dissonant tones in public listening when they were representatives of all interested parties. Also, part of the professional public suspected at one point that by abolishing project financing, it would practically serve as one, such an elegant way to fire a number of researchers. In fact, fear has also sparked the main paper of the law in Article 12, which, unlike the previous law, points out institutional financing in Article 108. the suspension of project financing. The combination of funding by this law leads to predictability, above all, where each individual, researcher will know what he can expect, which is very important on the other hand for his commitment to the project itself and therefore even better engagement towards the project he is working on. The new law will allow researchers through a new way of funding to be in a better position, so that some of them will hire colleges and innovation centres in the classroom, but all those who are in doctoral studies will be paid by the ministry and in the institution where they are presently. Perhaps it is better to say that this law gives the greatest contribution to science because career, that is, the career of scientists, will, above all, be recognised and will give some kind of freedom of scientific research in the very choice of topics to scientific organisations, on the one hand, to the safety of scientific workers, on the other hand. This law provides researchers with security in view of the fact that researchers have been in some way unprotected, i.e. they did not have safe receipts. Those researchers who are in doctoral studies will receive monthly compensation, as I said through the ministry, and on the other hand, they will be able to compete with the Science Fund with their projects and thus provide themselves with additional income. Also, these changes will have to respond to the topic already given, so they will require some kind of partnership with other ministries, as has been said in public hearing, but money, except from the budget, will support the private sector for plans and ideas. A good indicator is the Innovation Labour Fund, where there are projects in which the private sector participates almost 30%, as far as I'm aware, so in this sense it is realistic to expect the private sector to recognize what the Science Fund is doing, which increased from 2015 to 2019 to 36%, i.e. about five billion more than it was four years ago. Finally, one very important fact that what the ministry is doing in the field of science is well and in the spirit of reform has been recognised by the World Bank itself, which has become a partner, in some way credited the establishment of a 42m-euro Science Fund, while the IPA Fund's plan is a 30m-euro grant. In voting day, the SPS will support amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55871	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55872	Mr. Minister, you've spoken to this law, as well as your colleagues in power, as you did of something epochal. It's not like that, believe me, and it'll show time that it isn't. You were talking about more investment in science, in scientific research. This law gives no certainty to people who are involved in science, and more and more are people from that branch who comment on this law in this way. You talked about building infrastructure, scientific institutions, participating in international projects in co-operation with Chinese and Russian institutions in the field of science, and that's what's good and that's where you should continue in that direction as intensively as possible. You mentioned, among other things, investing in artificial intelligence. It's not bad, but it would be good if you invested in natural intelligence, a little more than you've ever done in Serbia. Unfortunately, media too very little space and time devote themselves to young people who are still involved in scientific research which are part of these scientific teams, who at international level achieve significant results, but as if it were not interesting to anyone. On several examples I just recorded, in 2019, the international conference of young scientists was 190 papers, high school students from 30 countries from Serbia won four gold, two silver and two bronze medals, so the Mathematical High School, our students were the first team, six medals individually brought, one gold, two silver, three bronzes, and in 2017, the award of music schools, and the last that was in Izmir two gold medals, etc. So you have this as much as you want and the problem is that the state is not paying attention to these young talents. What's going on? It is organised once a year that these young people, children, in order not to say that they are awarded these annual awards of 50 to 200,000 dinars, that is, stimulating, that is, well, but those young people must be provided not only with schooling, but also with conditions for the development of these scientific activities. There's a lot of these inventors out there who have their patents. You're here to predict that from the patents the inventor gets at least 50% of the total profit. That's not good. It was supposed to be, let's say we proposed 65% by amendment, they have to be more stimulated by these people. More and more are heard in the media like this, they say – young people are educated in Serbia to go with the knowledge they collect here to go abroad. One way to stop it, of course, no one can force anyone to live where he doesn't think he's well enough, and if he wants to go where he thinks he's going to be much better. You must both as a state and as a ministry and this law that we are talking about today... You talk here and work with the economy and so on. Both business and state authorities have to conclude appropriate contracts with these young children, these young people, to give them loans, to give them scholarships that they will commit when they reach that highest academic calling that a certain number of years should stay to work with whoever trained him. It used to be that way, you know? Well, you couldn't leave your birthplace until you finished that year of internship you got through some scholarship and it wasn't bad, and it's especially good to do it at the state level. That's one way for young people to stay and work here. In a way, that would make them. If we were to work for a few years and see that their work has been noticed and they have more decent profits, then I guess they'd stay here permanently, and that's probably our goal for all of us, isn't it? You didn't mention, Minister, Petnica. It used to be the source of talent. "Petnica" is still funded from the budget, and "Petnica" is today a private firm and it is no longer the P of the "Petnica" it used to be. It doesn't need to be financed from the budget anymore because there are no more real talents there. There come children whose parents pay to boast that their child is in Petnica. Otherwise, in this wrong direction, Minister Srdjan Verbic, who was a co-worker of Gaša Knezevic, led him to the wrong direction, so for the director or what is called the function in "Petnica", he appointed Vigor Majic, and there thanks to Tinda Kovac Cerovic, the money was stolen. You should take care of the team, too, to get rid of it more, so let's see how much money that is and how much money these people are responding to and get that money back, so that it can be invested in these young talents and young people that we want and through this law we can promote in general. So we have young talented people, no matter how bad our education system is. There are these young people who are educated far beyond what is their obligation to get a good grade and thank God that is so, but they really must be respected in this country in this society. You here, Minister, provided for in article 33 of the institution of national importance and said it was SANU and Matica Serbian. That, of course, no one questions you. We have suggested that it be a Serbian literary cooperative, regardless of what a private institution is, but in this context, as provided for in Article 33, it absolutely fits, because it regulates its operation by a special law, as Article 33 provides. Here, in Article 4 of this law, which we recently adopted here, it states, among other things, that it organises scientific and research affairs, in line with the objectives set out in this law and that the Serbian literary cooperative is the organizer and institution of national publishing ventures in the fields of literature, history and art. This is what we are missing and it is good that the Serbian literary cooperative is now, mostly, funding from the budget and needs serious resources to be provided for, as well as for these other institutions of national importance. You know, there are some institutions that may be a little far from the general public, not to say from an ordinary man, because we're all ordinary people, but I'm talking about the general public, but we have to say here from this place that certain funds should be invested in these institutions of national interest, because since 2000, there's been a serious denacification through so-called. The reform of Gaše Knezevic and we have not yet recovered from it, and we must recover through the return of the Cyrillic. I recently told the minister that in his services official solutions are written in Latin. He was a man. He didn't know. True, as soon as I said that, after three, four days, the program was changed, and now those solutions are being issued on Cyrillic. We must not be ashamed of our national history, our literature, our science. We have indeed given so many significant names throughout history to Serbs that we can be proud of it and therefore should be forced. What we also think is necessary, we have already proposed through the parliamentary question, it is, Minister, that as an institution of national importance, and we have proposed to you amendments through several amendments to convince you to accept at least one, regardless of which one I am now asking you to discuss in the Government before we discuss the amendments. It's a national institute, we can discuss the name, which would deal with the record and analysis of all The Hague verdicts. What happened to the Serbs and Serbian people in The Hague and if it remains only in these verdicts, we will have serious problems through future history. We have to organize such a team. One man can't do that. The president of our party is doing this seriously and in several of his books has analysed dozens of these verdicts, but in The Hague tribunal, their archives, millions, not tens of thousands, millions of pages of evidence exist. They will destroy it as soon as they stop getting 30-40 000 euros a month. They won't exist, they don't find that interesting. It has to be for us. So, one institution should be organised, whatever we call it, to involve lawyers with experience and to challenge young lawyers, to take literally people from the bureau, young lawyers, who will participate in this, and many would, for example, do their master's work and doctoral work and that would be involved in scientific work through this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55873	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55874	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I have a lot to give you as an answer, and you've asked quality questions. We look exactly the opposite, to regulate the safety of people who work in science through this law. I mentioned earlier that they enter the catalog for the first time. It's that public sector salary bill. So their accounting is now being trained to do budget operations. So this now says that they and the categories will be like higher education. It's a big change. What is important for the Centre for the Promotion of Science, that's what we called them, in this law is exactly what you were saying about "Petnica" and about everything. We want them not to be free shooters. This is where the state invested the money and it will be the state property of the Republic of Serbia, and since we have a body called the Centre for the Promotion of Science, so that body should network all these centers that are located regionally and should be as many as possible. The main goal is for young people to be able to compete in youth, at the end of primary school, with competitions from various classes, high schools, students. So those who can show interest in science get a chance. We're doing an original model that it won't go to the parents' burden, but not on the school's burden, not even on the burden budget too. If it goes too far on the burden of the budget, we won't be able to establish new ones, and the goal is to keep as many as possible. We also have Trsic. As you know, here, for a year and a half, Trsic has been working as a single station, to which we have changed the name. It's not cultural and educational, it's now scientific and cultural education. We added this category – scientificly, because all social science there can demonstrate its capacities and values, not just the Faculty of Philology in Belgrade. Otherwise, let me inform you, it's projected at the White Church Geoscience Center. We're looking for an undeveloped region. This is the Dukean plain, where we have land as a agricultural resource, which is also very important to us for the chemical profession of the agricultural school and that group and there is a partner of NIS, because they are interested in young people who will explore and find earth gas and oil. It's a symbiosis that gives a good result. He just mentioned one of Goc's MPs. We have a very good co-operation with local self-government and we're going to have Goc redecorate and be a center for natural sciences, as he's already doing. We have in Belgrade a center on Avali, a student resort. We've changed the Law on Student and Student Standard, and it's not just a resort anymore. So it gets a second function, because it's half empty. We also talked to the Dean of the Faculty of Biological Sciences these days to find the papers to get into the legalization of the facility that started in the Botanical Garden that would be tied to that center. Only this would be the main discipline in Belgrade. We also work in Valjev at a technical school. The government took the facilities of the “Jablanica” centre. It's an abandoned center that can serve. The question is the accommodation of these candidates, not only do we have good classrooms and good teaching staff. We have a further Tristenik, where we have an excellent vocational school, an excellent technical school, we have Petolite facilities, and we have an old dormitories, it's possible to adapt. So for everything, we have to create conditions and do it at a high speed. That was seven centers in the next two years where it's budgeted and where it's done. The student cooperatives we designed, which are starting to work, will take part of the responsibility from the rebates of various, from textbooks to the next, and will have one base that the student who shows someafinity gets a voucher, doesn't get the money. That voucher can be spent at one of these research stations. This brings everything to the level of the Republic. So the state invested 12m euros in Petnica. She invested about seven million in Trsic, which is something she won't invest so much money in, because we'll use abandoned facilities, objects that can be brought into service to make it more possible. That idea is already very much in the realisation. I totally agree with everything you've said, and that's what you're working on. It's in this law, too. It will be very soon here in parliament, if there are opportunities now during the next sessions and the law on dual studies. It's a way for young people to have a contract for their jobs in the course of school. Seven thousand and four hundred will have high school kids this year. This has increased 4,500 from the initial 400. Dual studies, if you have followed the enrolment now in colleges, not only at Belgrade University, are advocating interests in technology, technical studies, medicine and these groups, and that is something companies are taking for them. And how we're going to release certain funds that companies will participate in to increase the number of scholarships. We have good scholarships for Serbia's terms. High school kids have a maximum of 27,000, doctoral students have 47,000 per month, and that's something we could raise at this point, of course we should go on more. We have a project in terms of preserving young talent for people in colleges, which are very often innovative, whose ideas could go to a company that, when founded in college, could also be owned by certain people and sold. Let's go to the original solution that a number of younger spaces and students are the owners of these companies, according to the Higher Law. You keep them safe, you give them a better chance, and the state has more indirect benefits. We're going to talk about this model almost to both high and students, and we're going to consider that such models exist in the world. They're very successful. Employment is very important, it is related to the percentage of the total number of unemployed in Serbia. If we come down, and hopefully very quickly, under about six or seven percent, even as other European countries, as nearby Hungary, with which we have excellent relations with the government and co-operate, each budget type of study is one kind of scholarship. Everyone is obliged to spend five years in the country. We can't apply that at a time when you can't give a young man a job and you make a commitment, and you can't selectively. So I hope that it will quickly be applied and that it is not one of the necessary measures, but from some rational ways to give people the knowledge that you will raise more levels and scholarships and job security. When it comes to the Serbian literary cooperative, I agree with you in some ways, but we also have to deal with the people of the cooperative, because they have no status and scientific centre. We at the Serbian Academy of Science or the Serbian Matica are simply funding scientific projects. I'm going to give you another example that's totally good to get this story figured out the other way. If you wake up and you need to work, without further ado, mentioning the complex of the Fair, but like Jad yours in Jerusalem, he's not just a museum, he's not just some sort of reminder of events that were unkind, he's a scientific institution. So, in the beginning, he has a study of genocide and all other things and historical science and everything else. That's our goal. When you mentioned the Institute of Smaller Affairs of All The Hague Problems, so I would call it, I will delegate it without further ado, because, first of all, I am a nationally-determined man and I really think about my country all the best, but I think we have three other institutes that might realize that it's their role and mission, and that's for modern history, for a new history, for a parallel right, so we see what's going on here and what might happen in that field, so it's very important. If you've noticed, we've made a new trip plan. The students must visit their country in depth and Republika Srpska, which we do not separate. They have to see Gradina, they have to prepare all these things historically, geographically, to learn before they start, and it will be controlled by the Ministry, whether it stands in the school's work programme. I cannot go beyond that and what Professor Atlagic says, some historians cannot make us all their vision of events. We know exactly what happened and what children should learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55875	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55876	You've mostly answered the most important questions. I'm about to get off the hook with the field trip thing. It's a great thing. Maybe some parents don't like who think their children should go in the white world. May they be led freely, but indeed to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, mostly children have to go around. You were talking about students studying on the budget that it was some kind of scholarship, crediting, etc. But when we talk in the context of this law, we are still talking about more talented because the average students are also worth finishing college in the budget, but we are talking about young people who are still in college or high school days, and you yourself said, in a way, they do science, some research, etc. They should have had that little special treatment. Another thing that would be good, regular students with a good average, study budget spending, master is on budget spending, and then when a doctorate gets there, it takes two or three thousand euros and that's a serious problem. They can't get a job to finance doctoral studies. If they get high-speed jobs, they work for 50-60,000 dinars until they reach how many years of work, and it also kind of stops those people who have capacity, will, desire, and there should be little accounting. It's a good thing all the institutes, as you said, will be and must be state. You must both Petnica or leave Vigor Majic to do whatever he wants with it, or return to the system of state institutions, and Vigora Majic and Tinde Kovac to the judge there, the prosecutor, and the judge, there is no further. It's probably where Verbic's going, but it doesn't matter, I'm not going to mention them individually now, I'm going to mention these two that you know about, and everyone here, anyone who wants to admit it. So these aren't bad steps, especially what you're explaining, which maybe doesn't even say in the law. It's good to go that way. I hope you share our opinion and our view that education is the most important segment in society. Everything can be compensated, failed factories, stolen companies, all someone responsible comes and can make up for it, but the failed generations of high school students, it's a permanent failure, and it's already failing in Serbia, and it has to be stopped most quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55877	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55878	It's not a replica, it's an explanation. I said today in the opening statement that we're going to come somewhere in the fall with the last law, very important, which regulates the financing of higher education and that's something we've been working on for a year and a half, they won't believe how much tripping and how much trouble it is to give birth. In order to do that, we had to start forming a professional academy. Where there was some money that didn't go to the right places. In this strategy, by 2013, we do not want to disrupt anything for changes in the way of funding, but we want students to relax large obligations, that the state takes greater responsibility, that the money that goes the way is seen in the budget and that these funds reduce student obligations at all levels, even faster. For that to happen, that's why the dual study law will be here very soon. They're completely now all the independent funds they're looking for. You heard that we are working intensively on the process of internationalising our study programs. That money should serve to relax at universities, universities, with what is the formation of these companies, and the more the state will participate, the very pocket of parents who have children in studies, any of these three levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55879	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55880	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the National Assembly adopted a Law on the Science Fund in early December 2018. It's a new law, for a new institution, that exists in almost all countries that have developed science, and now it's before us the Law on Science and Research. Taking into account a number of accumulated problems, as well as the fact that the vast majority of researchers in the scientific community were dissatisfied with the existing legal framework, the Ministry of Education decided to implement a complete reform of the system of funding scientific research and transition from incompetent project financing to institutional. A number of public debates, national council sessions, working groups sessions, and several meetings with researchers were held in order to adopt the highest quality law. On 17 June this year, the National Assembly organized by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, whose member I am also a member, held a public hearing on the proposal of this law, attended by a large number of scientists, experts, directors of institutes, deans, rectors and all other interested ones. In addition to this public hearing, both the stands and the Serbian Academy of Sciences in Belgrade were held in December 2018, then the University of Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. The general conclusion is that the Ministry of Education has shown one great openness to every criticism and suggestion and has been tackled with decades-long unresolved problems. A total of 134 letters were submitted, for example, with proposals, remarks by the working group, which, by the way, worked on the draft of this law, and most of them were adopted. With this bill our Ministry is very open to all criticisms and our colleagues in the Assembly have the answer, because this problem has come very studioy. This law primarily seeks to resolve the way in which scientific research work is financed through institutional funding, in order to provide budgetary incomes, i.e. security in financing the work of the institute, through a combination of project and institutional financing. It is very important to point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia understands and helps this sector as never before. For example, between 2015 and 2019, it increased the budget for research work by 35.8%. As for the past two years in Serbia, investments in infrastructure, science and through the construction of scientific and technological parks have been continued, for example, in Novi Sad and Nis, which are aimed at faster innovation and implementation in the economy of scientific achievements. So far, he has not been certain of the status of scientific workers and we have extraordinary experts in scientists. This is one way to keep them in the country, to keep the nation's senses here, because they will help us with their expertise in the faster recovery and progress of the country. The new Law on Science and Research provides me with only what is most important, which is the institutional financing of science, the strengthening of institutes of national importance, the existential uncertainty of scientific workers, the mechanism for establishing new institutions, the legal framework for solving researchers' housing problems is resolved under more favourable conditions. This has all been complicated and it has not been easy to untie a broken knot of jurisdiction, responsibility and funding, and it may not be easy, as it may seem to someone, because certain groups of rules are big turbulence, big quarrels, but not to change something, but to maintain their own existing positions. This is an deepening of co-operation between higher education and scientific workers, which has over 2800. Also, 38 scientific researchers have returned from the diaspora and we hope it will be since we passed this law that is before us. The previous government opened conferences on topics of the scientific community, the future of Serbia, saying how important science is and that it must follow politics and society. But it didn't move from the dead spot. It was just pure demagogy. Unlike them, we have the realization and we have the results. We create the elite, not as our political opponents, who promote the quasi elite. The science law in Serbia is highly ranked on the world ranking list. It also testifies that Serbia is between 32nd and 41st, which is a significant success compared to almost all other rankings in other areas. And our scientists also made a large income in just two years of 46.4m euros. The key objective that this law aims to achieve is to create a research sector that can be an equal partner with its excellence within the European Research Area. We have smart, educated people who we have to cultivate and who we have to help with both financial and legal frameworks, who solve all misunderstandings. And the promotion of this law will continue through sublegal acts that follow immediately when the law is passed. Assets for investment in infrastructure have been identified, e.g. 23.9m euros in Novi Sad, 10m euros for the park in Nis, 5.6m for apartments, for example. workers of the University of Kragujevac, etc. All of this should be viewed as an investment in the future. Total detachments from the Republic of Serbia's budget increased from 2015 to 2019, as I said 35.8%, which we believe is an exceptional success, given that we had to work on all fronts and infrastructures, not only education, health care and everything else. As far as we've heard from the minister, it will continue, because it's not a mere investment without effect, it's an investment that will be paid multiple times in the future. In some of my previous speeches, I said that Alexander Vukic, our president, did not have to love, but they must respect him because he is the driver of everything good in Serbia. This is also confirmed by this law, as it sets the way for better education, science and faster prosperity of Serbia, all in the face of the fourth industrial revolution. It is said: knowledge is power. And I thank Minister Sarčević and his team for the outstanding quality of the law, whose well-being we will see only in the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55881	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55882	Thank you. Mr Arsic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when my native Kragujevac was founded in 1838 in 1838, the first higher education institution "Licej", which was transferred several years later to Belgrade, said in his speech at his first lecture to future high school students, "Dositej Obradovic – a treasure to you who respect and love science and who will be obedient and obedient to your teachers. You can see already in that Dossy speech the word science had a central place, because he felt both science and education were incompatible and that one without another was not going and that it was one unbreakable thread that one and the other must constantly follow, because from this very education, therefore, the basic, and then through higher education, we come to scientific researchers, people who leave a mark on what they do in various disciplines. Now, after 180 years, when we get one of these laws in the National Assembly, we need to ask ourselves what it is that Serbia can offer in the scientific and research area, and how much potential is present we have heard from many colleagues who have spoken, above all, MPs of the SRS, and others have mentioned it, and that is because of future generations that come and because of what they need to leave behind both through some new ideas and through verified scientific papers. Now we come to this, Mr. Minister, that this legal framework is not enough. It is in terms of defining how institutions will operate of national importance, the institutes. That's what I'm gonna talk about if I have time now, and not according to the amendments. How now in Serbia do we value the scientific and research work of an individual? That's the key question. Because you mentioned the world market, you mentioned to us the friendly and large People's Republic of China and the collaboration of our universities with the Beijing institutes, Shanghai and the self-initiative various workshops signed by professors from the university, unrelated to the state, so there are contacts that people have, then it would be logical that after the adoption of this law, Mr. Minister, we bring in a scientific strategy on research. For the simple reason that we cannot compete with some others in the world in certain scientific disciplines. For example, I've done a lot of research and research, and I've looked at it, only in the field of chemical science there are now, they say, 1,000 directions. Over a million researchers in the world are currently working on 50,000 projects in the chemical field, which means we need somewhere to find ourselves in all of this. Secondly, when it comes to social sciences, Parliamentarian Atlagic mentioned it, and others, he said it from the context that he is a lecturer at one university and a member of that party that is in power, and I, as a Serbian radical, must really ask myself today what areas of social sciences are, the social values that need to be promoted. We know what social values these are: that we respect others, that we love our people most, our country, that we have bright examples from our history, that we don't let mistakes happen again. Then we cannot have some rotten Europe and European standards from Brussels create a social awareness of what is good for Serbia and the Serbian people, because it is simply unacceptable. As a party, Mr. Minister, we have made an outstanding contribution to development, I can say it freely, without modesty, and social sciences, and philosophical thoughts, free thoughts, the formation of our scientific magazine "Serbian Freedom Thought". All the time, therefore, after October 5th, all the enemies who were nagging Serbia, the arrest by the evil UN tribunal and the taking of people from the political, military and police summit, we gave guidance through the magazine, through works that could not be seen as political, but just scientific and research, where Serbia should go. We can freely say that it is one seal in research that should be valued in the right way. These national institutes in our country, which are all owned by the state, which is 70, I think 28 scientific and 32 have scientific and research status, must not at all, Mr. Minister, and at no cost go into some private hands, regardless of what you in the members of the 55th and 56th laws have left that limit, or that 51% of the ownership of the state must be. Then where does that lead us? You know, those from Europe, from America, big corporations want to kidnap everyone in Serbia, our country, and that's what Jojic and our young people were talking about this morning, so we use this jargon term "brain drain," and these people are leaving because they're not valued enough here in their scientific and research work. That's why we don't think there's enough money in the budget. There's enough to pay employees in the research sector, but 80% of the budget goes to it, and only 20% to workshops, to individual scientific and research projects, and that's not enough. There are colleagues who do science from different fields and in this world ranking, in the scientific quotes index, many world scientists say, younger and some who have been on this scientific scene for a long time, here, I'm the most quoted there, then he gets points on the international scientific scene. The question is, is it a real evaluation of someone's scientific work? So all lobbys do, world corporations pushing their researchers, and then we have to meet as a country, and figure out what's fundamental to what we're going to do in the scientific and research field, and what's already there and what some institutes have been doing for years. When we talk about the preservation of these institutes, we can no longer allow, Mr. Minister, that one institute or the Kragujevac Foreign Cereal Centre may experience such fate as it lived after these dommanias and until a few years ago, but neither is this a good solution. They now have some, such salaries and government decisions have passed into the jurisdiction of local self-government. But not because I come from that city, but look only today, now is the time when they can look at the fruits of their work, July moon, new cultures and new varieties of wheat and barley, which will only appear on the market in a few years, they have managed to produce on very small land and with modest working conditions. My colleague mentioned someone else. Let's give these institutions more importance and they're financed by the state, so we know what we're investing in, so we're going to show up on the world market. For years, I've been working with Serbia's agro-communicate, first of all, with the Cacca Institute of Fruit, not as a politician, but from my second job, and I've been proud of these people, especially the Cacca Institute, because these famous fruit varieties no longer exist in the world. I'm really embarrassed to see on one of these sites how these unfortunate Croats, who don't even have their own language, are taking on some variety of our fruit. So in that direction we should go, that one general strategy, which should follow this law, determine the directions for our young researchers. What's most important is that I end up with this because there's no time left, Mr. Minister, we can't let any doctorates get to the second or third year of doctoral studies without having permanent employment. You just said what scholarships they were and how much they went up in nominal amounts. Do you know, there are probably cases like this in other university centres, that in Kragujevac, first of all, we have people at the Medical School who are in the second, third year of doctoral studies and now they might get, now the college statute is changed, the ability to work as class associates, and they don't have a permanent job. That's what's sad, because people like that can pack up and leave tomorrow, and then we'll grab our heads and we'll have to import the personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55883	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55884	Thank you. I'll start with Kragujevac. I've got representatives from the medical school coming over on Friday, so that's what we're talking about. What used to happen, and you yourself noticed that the institutes that were business societies, among them, were privatized, unfortunately. We were able to save the Institute of Feed Plants in Kruševec, which was from the end of the 19th century, so we saved the vegetables from Smederjevska Palanka. That would have happened to them, too, believe me. When it comes to Chachak. After three years we gave that institute wind in the back and it's now a quality institute, as it was before. In that part, the agro-institutes are a great advantage and wealth, and when foreigners come, when we talk about what we can do for them, we always refer to agro-institute and warfare, vegetables from Vojvodina, Zemun Fields, corn, not to talk any further, they're really model institutes. What's very important, the legal framework really isn't enough, and that's what we said. I also mentioned today that during the development of the 2030 strategy, this strategy literally covers all levels of education and science. They're big teams. We've already caught the thought and many of us are helping us, but we don't let anyone work for us. That's the difference. The action plan is being done all the time, because in this strategy that is still going on, it wasn't foreseen. So now we absolutely, as you say, predict priorities, we know what our strengths are, what we can place, and that's exactly what this strategy encourages. She's working in agreement with the Chamber and the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture and all other factors that need to give their own judgment and that's exactly what it's all about. As part of this strategy, we also particularly insist on two things. One is fundamental sciences, which must exist in a framework, strong scope, because we all quotes that we have and places on Shanghai lists and Belgrade and New Sad and Kragujeva and Kragujevno come from mathematics, and most of all from theoretical mathematics, everyone knows that. But on the other hand, social science. The world is slowly moving to 5.0 resolution and we talk about it often. So there are already one number of ministers in Europe, who, above all, are colleagues from Greece, I, from Cyprus, are dealing with this issue, because social science must further respond to where the human community goes and everything we talk about. So in the new strategy, it will have an extremely important place and it is a call primarily to people who are involved in social science that when they take part, they make an important contribution. There is no privatisation of any institute that has the status of an institution. That's forbidden. That's where we regulated the law, and the companies that went somewhere can only be allowed by the government. Although it's an emergency for us to get it back to the state of the facility. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55885	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55886	I hope, Mr. Minister, that for a while, it will go well for at least five or ten years, to draw the line again, you or some of your successors or someone here in the assembly benches, and let me say, here's an increase in the science budget by 200, 300%. Why am I talking? We have this especially from the Chinese delegation, when we were in Beijing, that they know how much they can, because it's a huge, highly developed industrial country, invest in the science budget, and it's known exactly after each college where who's going to work and who's going to do what research and scientific work they're going to do. I guess we'll get to that level, but it takes a lot of years. What's equally important is that we keep these scientists. We almost had a key reception for young scientific associates in my town. There's a lot of university flats being leased. We think we should give all these young scientists the opportunity, the amendment we submitted in that sense, to pay only 50% of the market value, to give them some favourable credit, to keep those apartments. What is not good with this solution now is that the money from the leases of these already existing apartments, owned by the University of Kragujevac, is likely in other centres in Serbia, is returning to the budget, or to the Ministry of Finance. Now the question is -- who's going to take care of the maintenance of these already existing apartments if the university doesn't have one couple for it anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55887	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55888	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on science and research. For SNS, for our President Alexander Vukic, certainly investing in education, investing in knowledge is not a cost, but an investment for the reason that knowledge for SNS and our president is the greatest power. Knowledge is power, more powerful than any weapon. And therefore continuously since 2012, and especially since 2014 education, education, science and research, this government has shown that it is also of great importance and that it also shows great attention. Of course, in 2020, when the SNS came to power and when the country was in front of bankruptcy, nothing could be given to any social segment, so much could not be given to the education segment either. But for the last three years, thanks to the fact that there is a standard surplus in the budget, individing both science and research are 36% higher. Is that enough? It is not, but certainly the SNS, our President Aleksandar Vucic, as well as the Government recognises the importance of investment in both science and research and increasing investment in how economic growth and economic growth will be strengthened and the science and research gained through research and contribute to both economic growth and economic development, but also sustainable economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to point out is that the University of Belgrade is on the Shanghai list. If we know that there are only 2% of the total universities in the world on that list, then of course we can conclude the importance of Belgrade University and employees working at Belgrade University. I must also point out that the Republic of Serbia has become 23 permanent CERN members. Otherwise, it's an area related to atomic physics and nuclear research. I must also point out that as far as this law is concerned, there are many newspapers, and I will, of course, only list some of them that I particularly consider to contribute to the quality of this law, and the very quality of this law has been provided in one way before coming to debate here to the National Assembly for the reason that during the public hearing here in the National Assembly of all the relevant scientific institutions, all representatives of the institute were involved and there were almost no fundamental objections. What I would also like to point out is that this law provides a proposal that the directors of the institute must have competences from the area for which the institute was established. It's a novelty. It is important from the aspect of the performance and efficiency of the institute's work, as it is certainly up to the competent director to also depend on the progress of research that the institutes will carry out. And what I want to point out is that this law first introduces a unique database, a unique database that applies to scientific and research organisations, but also a unique database relating to researchers. This is of course important in the allocation of funds for projects. The Serbian Progressive Party in voting day will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55889	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55890	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, science and research are the main promoters of development policies. They contribute to economic growth and job creation. Knowledge as the most important resource is increasingly gaining importance. The existence of a stable research system is a driving force that contributes to improving the quality of life in modern society. Science and innovation are key factors of competitiveness and sustainable development. Only investment in research and development for the sake of new scientific knowledge, innovation and technology provides an improvement to one society. All this affects the socio-economic development of the country. Therefore, the precondition for the development of an innovative society is research and development, and this represents the most profitable investment. The country's research, development and innovative potential depends on the number of researchers, quality and results of research, research infrastructure, as well as investment. With this bill, we achieve greater strategic investment in scientific and technological development, which aims to increase investment in research, development and innovation. Serbia has significant potential and is highly positioned according to the number of scientific works quotes. The excellence and relevance of scientific and research results represent a measure of their quality. With increased investment in science, we can expect better and greater production in the future, which is also our goal and what this law will allow. During the former government, Serbia was a weak, technologically lagging and addictive state, in which there was no place for serious progress, development, innovation and modern technologies. Competitiveness has dropped, and the collapse and lagging behind in the scientific and technological sense has been expressed. They did everything without any clear idea, so the parameters of the economy were desperate. They left Serbia in chaos, brought back decades, with no perspective, even though they had a chance and a chance ahead of them. We want a knowledge-based economy to develop science, research and use it. All countries are successful in science have funds for science. That is why a Science Fund has been established to call public calls for the financing of the most competitive projects. The aim of defining the conditions is to achieve excellence, to involve the best young researchers, to be part of the scientific community and to achieve the best results. A fund has been provided for researchers who want to return from abroad to Serbia. We want to show that for our scientists who ended up abroad there is room in our scientific community. The state is investing in building scientific and technological parks. The state invests in the most modern equipment for innovative research. A science and technology park is being built in the former town of electronics in Nis. The value of the investment is over 10m euros. Conditions are being created for further technological development, i.e. information and communication technologies. All of this is of great importance to the city of Nis and the entire region of Southeast Serbia. The goal is to ensure the safe future of Serbian science and increase the capacity of our scientific community, to make science and our people a link to the world, such as Nikola Tesla, Mihajlo Pupin. This is a new approach to science, our President Alexander Vukic's appeal to young experts who have worked in the diaspora for years and have gained enviable knowledge from the field of science, to return and work for the benefit of their country, as well as a message to the country's scientific workers to keep them, with the possibility of much better working conditions and training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55891	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55892	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, we are here considering the proposal for a law on science and research. It should be said that, and said previous speakers, in the Republic of Serbia, funding research activities is achieved and implemented through the Law on Scientific Action, but it is financed by the model of project financing, which is essentially incompetent and, in practice, does not stimulate the development of science, technology and economy in the longer term. We have, the fact is, a significant scientific and research potential, but that needs to be further developed. What's significant is this way of project funding, just to read some statistics. The orientation of scientific research towards economics is relatively low, so that the global list, i.e. a global competitiveness report for 2017, measuring the quality of university co-operation and economics, is in the 95th place of 137 countries, and in 2018 at 79th place. On the other hand, when looked, according to the same report, the quality of research institutions in 2017 is high 47th place and 59th place in 2018. What has shown in the previous period is a really low percentage of patents and new technical solutions that account for only 3.3% in these studies, and 88% in scientific papers quoted on "Sci lists". This part of the practical application of science that should be useful to the state, society in this way of funding is not resolved. That's why the ministry has been working through these three years, so in 2015 there was no project funding, or project competition, because it started to work in detail how to connect with one side the big job that they did quality and on the one hand should define higher education institutions and colleges, where, apart from the education of students, it is necessary and scientific and research work, both because of the promotion of teaching and the progress of teachers. On the other hand, you have institutes formed by the state to solve the relevant problems involved in education, rather than research, and they depend on these projects. It's not a small number of people, it's about 2,800 people employed in those institutes. And you have a third thing to finalize, which is the third party, the user, to use that term, it's an economy, small, large, enterprises where these new innovations are needed in new technologies, in new products and services. With this law, the ministry has coherently balanced in a quality way, a highly doctrinal way of researching to find a common denominator for all three elements mentioned. That's good for them. Many colleagues represented many of the quality of the new law, so I would not repeat some of these things. It should also be said that although we did not have a project funding, the Ministry of Science increased the budget by 35% between 2015 and 2019. So that's what needs to be known and that this budget has been significantly increased. There's one more thing that needs to be mentioned for the citizens. In this explanation, the ministry accurately cited a tax number in the public debate, there was a very broad public debate, suggestions for remarks addressed to the ministry. They detailed all these remarks, listed institutions, colleges, individuals, entities that wrote suggestions. In their answers, they gave us a review of exactly which members were rejected suggestions and why they were rejected, and in particular they gave an overview of the suggestions accepted and why they were accepted. When that analysis and the inclusion of the draft law of these suggestions were completed, the debate was held again, i.e. those corrected by these distinguished improvements. The law was presented to the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, and was presented to the extended college of the University of Belgrade, and was presented to the Community of the Serbian Institute. So again in one now-quality high-quality individual, an institution, re-presented, to use the term, the final text of the law with all improvements. In all those places where he was presented, he was praised and accepted. Of course, it should be said that the application of this law cannot immediately produce results, it certainly takes the next four to five years to produce the effects of these quality solutions given in the law and that implementation. Thus, it is necessary and certain that some members will be prepared in this next period, improved individual solutions when the implementation of this law takes place in research and in practice. Listing all the quality and improvement of the law, let me tell you, I can only do it after all my colleagues have said, a few things. To state, the main thing is the establishment and operation of the Science Fund, which has reached all the conditions for the launch of competitive competitions, practically according to appropriate clear positions. Then, the paper is that clear criteria have been defined for the evaluation of the work of scientific institutions. Also, what is important, system-resolved, the involvement of doctoral students, who are involved in individual schools, especially in medicine, in part of the course. The criteria for research calls at the institutes, which had previously been inadequately resolved, were also adapted, and are now being resolved. What is vital for young researchers, that the legal framework to address the relevant housing needs of researchers and teachers and associates, provides the possibility of making available their own incomes and forming in new technologies, companies. So, that part of the application for development, making profits as a final in innovation, is another practical part of the importance of this law. Of course, the SNS and I in the voting day, we'll vote for this bill. Once again, praise the ministry and Minister Sarčević, as leader, to the team manager of a law like this, who will really give real results in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55893	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55894	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, there is no serious long-term and in the structure of the economy's quality growth, GDP growth without the development of science, without innovation, without technological development. In this sense, it is very important to regulate this area legally, but of course it is also very important to invest in science, innovation and to connect science and innovation with economy, because this relationship is unbreakable. I'll remind you, Minister, that several months ago, a young talent app was opened in the city of Chačka. On this occasion, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic attended the opening and it was an investment of 47 million dinars and it was really impressive to see what this space looks like, and perhaps even more interesting to see all these very creative ideas of young Cacans, which are not only creative, but have absolutely their own application in business and business and in business and can open new jobs, new markets, and therefore new jobs. I will only list some of the results so far and the results that were planned in the first year of operation of the old app center. So 620 m2 of space is equipped in the city centre, 300 users participated in training, education and other gatherings, 30 teams passed education for application, innovation and business idea development. The three most successful teams participated in domestic and international competitions for technological innovation. One of the goals is up to ten newly formed old app teams, which will develop their idea with a tendency to register a business entity. This is very important, especially if we know that the Chacan economy is often said to be self-involved. She's got a lot of small businesses, enterprises, family companies. An economy that survived as such and at the most difficult times of crisis. I think this is the best way to create a new young wave of new young people who will at these start app centres have support for their ideas, for their innovations and have the opportunity to start their business, to hire themselves, but also their families and other people. Of course, this old app center is part of the Cačak Science and Technology Park and you initially said that the NTP Cačak was in development, which is true, this initiative for the creation of NTP was created somewhere in 2011. Since 2014 he has officially started work. The founders are the town of Cačak, the Faculty of Technical Sciences, the Institute of Fruiting, the Business Association of the City of 97 and the Union Cačak 2000. These are otherwise associations of businessmen who, at that moment, recognized the need to create such a science and technology park. What makes me the most happy somewhere is what Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said at the opening of the centre's opening app, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is planning large investments, firstly the Faculty of Technical Sciences, which needs to expand capacity, restore equipment, but also large investments in NTP Cačak, which needs a new, modern facility to help Cačak be one of the four scientific centres in Serbia. So, besides NTP Belgrade, NTP Novi Sad and Nis, Cačak should be one of four centres and it's a really big deal for us. At this time, I ask you ministers to support these ideas, because I think the town of Cačak has the capacity for this and in an educational sense through the Faculty of Technical Sciences, which is certainly the most important educational institution in central and western Serbia and through the infrastructure possibilities that Cačak has if we consider that building Corridor 11 and the Moravski Corridor will make him a intersection of highways. On Friday, we also open Morava airport in Brodjevci. Also, if we consider this innovative and creative character of the Chacan economy, I think these are all the preconditions for Cacak to become one serious center for the development of science, innovation and technological development. Somewhere, I think, in the future, it is certainly the most important project for both our city and all of central Serbia in the next few years. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55895	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. The Minister, Mr Mladen Sarcevic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55896	Thank you, Chairman. Just to tell my colleague Mark that we have a big meeting on July 11th, my team, for investment in feasibility studies, which aims to identify the needs of high-level infrastructure, counting all our university centers and their isolated parts. So in this project we should also recognize the two campuses that we announced in Belgrade, by three colleges, means geographical, biological and security at one location and art college, music-applicated art and a new college for play, which falls within the area of creative industries on another salary. Also, there is an ETF building, a new one, that would be within the technical courtyard between Technological Metalurski, Machine and these technical universities from Boulevard, and a series of other solutions. We have certain solutions for Kragujevac, because, simply, there, we have ensured the rationalization of space to separate universities for philology and art, and a number of other solutions. You've seen Lamela in Nis, the Faculty of Electronics, seven thousand squares, set up a cornerstone. There needs a certain space for the PMF nick. And mostly, this is a big, big turn of state to invest high, because the capacities of our particular colleges can no longer meet the needs of the number of engineers and everything we try and demand to do. So, in order for accreditation to work for more students, and to receive more foreign students, where we have serious ambitions and intentions to, above all, raise the country's reputation and somehow earn money and show the quality of national education, these are great goals and we will already know somewhere in the autumn what the priorities will be and what this feasibility study will say, so that very quickly we will move on to project implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55897	Thank you, Minister. The word is Aleksandra Jevtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55898	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal for a law on science and research. Another one in a series of laws that shows the serious relationship of the state, the resolution ministry, through great openness, constructive and numerous discussions that preceded exactly the bill. The bill unequivocally shows that science is an important part of our society and that the efforts it makes say that Serbia, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, is thinking of people involved in science. For Serbia last year, it was record on many issues -- three and a half billion direct investment, foreign, new jobs, which are reported to be 17% higher in the first five months than in the first five months of last year. Serbia this year is raising its projection from 3.5% to 3.8% and 3.8% respectively, which means higher revenue in the budget, which records a surplus of 8.3 billion in the first six months of this year. All of this is, of course, the result of the responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, of the Serbian Progressive Party. On this occasion, I would also like to commend the Ministry of Education's work, as many reforms have just been implemented by the Ministry in the fields of science and technological development. The government of the Republic of Serbia increased the budgets foreseen for scientific and research work by 35.8% in dinar value from 2015 to 2019. Over the past two years, investments in science infrastructure have continued in Serbia. Examples are the construction of a Science and Technology Park in Novi Sad, Nis, Lamela Electronic Faculty, Faculty of Organizational Sciences, Bio Sens Institute of Investments in Kragujeva University, etc. Of course, I am proud to point out that Serbia has become a 23rd full member of CERN, where ongoing projects, which I would like to point out with special satisfaction, have received 1,157 young researchers, with an average above 9. The ministry thus sends a clear message that young and successful people, researchers, are a place here in the Republic of Serbia. Six institutes of national importance have been established, the capacity of the Science and Technology Park has been increased, income has been achieved from 46m euros between 2016 and 2018. As far as the proposal for a law on science and research itself is concerned, it is a reform law, a law that was made, of course, by example by the most developed countries in the field of science. So far, there has been a system of project funding, where researchers had to fight for projects, that they could not make their salaries if they weren't on projects, where progress just depended, or conditioned by attending projects. However, this new Law on Science and Research is being reformed through exactly this funding, which comes down to part of the project or institutional financing. What I would like to point out is that this law provides frameworks for the work of exactly the Science Fund, which was founded, that is, where the law was voted here in December last year in the Serbian Parliament, the Law on the Fund for Science of the Republic of Serbia. It's the first law after 12 years that's been passed in the field of science, which I'm particularly proud of. The Science Fund started working, the director, the board of directors, the scientific council was elected, and already on June 21st was the first call from the Science Fund. It was a call for exceptional researchers, young doctors who had doctored over the last 10 years. In 2019, there will be two more calls, one of which is a programme to improve capacity in the field of artificial intelligence, and another programme to co-operate with the Serbian scientific diaspora. The projects will last two years and, of course, enviable funds are provided. The draft law on science and research is a roof law in the field of science, which, of course, together with the recently mentioned Science Fund Act, regulates policy to promote scientific and technological development, stable funding, effective use of funds through a combination of project and institutional financing. One of the key reasons for the adoption of a new law is the application of a model of funding scientific and research work. The new Law on Science and Research provides institutional funding for science, empowerment of institutes of national importance, mechanism for establishing new institutions, more effective monitoring and evaluation of the work of institutes, as well as better co-operation of institutes and universities. The objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are to improve the quality of scientific research, the application of research results, more efficient and efficient body work and the use of all scientific and development resources. The key and, in my view, one of the most important objectives is, which are achieved by the adoption of this law, the creation of a scientific and research sector which, by its quality, can be an equal partner within the European Research Area. The adoption of this law created a legal framework for the establishment of new institutes, the inclusion of diaspora scientists in the work on projects, facilitating choice in scientific titles and speeding up the election procedure itself through the adjustment of the criteria itself, provided funding of centres of exceptional values. For the first time, this law creates a framework for the housing needs of young researchers in higher education institutions. For all these reasons that I have stated, which are contained in the bill, I think it is a ridiculous statement by Vuk Jeremic that this law will encourage the most educated to leave here. I think this law clearly sends the opposite message, which is that the Republics of Serbia need young people, responsible people, and that there will always be seats here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55899	Thank you, colleague Jevtic. The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55900	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, today Serbia is a knowledge-based society, and science and research are recognised as a work of particular importance for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The science and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020 for research and innovation, as a strategic goal in the fields of science and research in the Republic of Serbia, also represents a change in the model of funding scientific and research work, which is one of the main reasons for the adoption of this law in the fields of science and research, with the aim of improving the system, ensuring stable financing and making use of budgets in an efficient and optimal manner. The adoption of the Law on the Science Fund last year made the first step of the Ministry of Education in reforming the system of funding scientific work in our country. Three key steps are to move from project to institutional funding, change of researcher status in colleges and affirmation of principles that scientific work must bring concrete benefits to the state and society. According to the survey, 34 European countries together will allocate $472.5 billion for scientists in 2019, from Germany with a planned budget of $123 billion to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will allocate $50m to those purposes. It should be stressed that Serbia is devoting from the 110m to 114m dollars per year to scientific research, which is more than in Croatia, Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia, Iceland, and we can say to the overrich Luxembourg. Since the world standard for more significant allocations from the R & D budget is about $20 million, we can say that we are certainly not at the global bottom. According to the 2017 Bureau of Statistics, the highest percentage of funding for research and development comes from the state sector, 57.3%, while in second place the higher education sector is 26.3%. The funds from international organisations participate with about 10%, while the non-financial sector participates with only 4%. This relatively unfavourable structure of science funding should be resolved by the Law on Science and Research that we are discussing today. The aim of this law is that one part of the institute deals important to the state, because some of them are founded. The results expected from the scientific community are not only works for the ISO List, but also concrete contributions to the state and society as a whole. That goes for researchers from the university. According to data from the Republic Statistical Institute and the Ministry of Education's assessment in our Serbia, between 10,000 and 12,000 researchers are working. There is a difference because of status specificities, such as job, source of earnings, status projects and more. Until recently, only 1,000 researchers were under 30 years old, but today, with the help of the government's employment programme, the number is almost doubled, i.e. 1,830. Investment in science and youth is an investment in national identity, which is the most deserved by our President Aleksandar Vukic. In Voting Day, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55901	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55902	Thank you. The key paper of the Law on Science and Research is the change in the model of science funding, which represents a complex process, but really necessary in this area and I am sure it will bring results. In addition to the project, which has so far functioned through the Science Fund, institutional funding of scientific research is being introduced, and thus the state provides security for researchers, in terms of not only financial resources, but also continuity in work. Institutional financing of accredited institutes, the founder of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, the unit of local self-government and the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, will include funds for researchers' salaries in scientific titles, funds for salaries of administrative and technical, professional and auxiliary staff, means of directing costs, funds for material costs of research, means of procurement, maintenance, depreciation and provision of equipment and resources for research costs. All of this I mentioned is extremely important, because so far the funds have been used mostly for research projects by researchers, 76.86% of the total. The share of material cost-oriented funds was extremely low, which affected the size and quality of research. The funds for material research costs are crucial for the quality of scientific research. The Republic of Serbia will, according to the reputation of highly developed countries, adapt this way to a system of science management that includes improving the process, setting priorities for funding and managing scientific – research organisations, by assessing scientific work in relation to its impact, creating new knowledge, economic development and addressing social challenges. The most developed countries recognise the importance of science and innovation for sustainable economic growth. EU members on average invest about 2% of GDP in science, while investments in Serbia, say, amounted to 0.93% of GDP in 2017. In order for Serbia to become an knowledge-based economy, it is necessary to establish an efficient system of support for the development of scientific and research work, resulting in the improvement of product and service technologies. Also, more involvement of the economy in research is needed. The involvement of more scientists in the economy is at a very low level compared to the most economically developed countries. New technologies are essential for the development of the economy, but also for the integration between the institutes and the colleges with the economy. This type of co-operation is also important for young scientists. Our scientists have so far produced envious results, especially in the fields of electronics, telecommunications, information technologies, biotechnology in agriculture. So there's potential, and it's up to us to improve that potential. This bill is certainly a significant step in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55903	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with associates, dear colleagues, should not be concerned with science and research in order to understand or that at least I would understand how important this law is. I was fortunate to be almost a member of the National Assembly delegation in the People's Republic of China and to see what really means progress in science, in technology, what it really means when a country invests in all this, when it goes down the road to what economic and economic results it comes. Until a few dozen years ago, we were talking about a poor country that works for a handful of rice, and that's fascinating for everyone today, not just those who do science. My interest in this law is related to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia as part of international education, cultural or artistic space. Article 8 of this Law highlights the need to improve and expand cultural and artistic environments and creative education in order to preserve and affirm national identity as part of civilization heritage. Mr. Minister, if you didn't write anything but this sentence, you have all my support and every signature, because it's high time to define something like this. We have the Serbian Academy of Science and Art, such an important institution, we also have a Matica Serbian which you also define, but it is very important to create a legal obligation to promote our civilization achievements, but also to correct some mistakes from the past that are blocking us today and that prevent us from forming our cultural space as we should. In a recent conversation with my colleague, Snezana Petrovic, I thank her for drawing attention to that, and I will only give some two examples. At the beginning of the 13th century, the most clever among us, the Holy Sava, wrote the Law or the Feeder of the Holy Sava. Little is known, it is a rule that should only be regulated by church relations, but it was a legal rule that governed the state, which resolved civil rights, solved the rights of mothers, the right of mothers with children, solved the problems of slavery and the abolition of slavery. It's one of the first civil laws ever written in the world, only a hundred and a few years after that comes a magnacarta libertatum that today Western civilization boasts is intellectually superior to everyone else, thanks to such laws. Unfortunately, why am I bringing this up? St. Sava's cartilage has not yet been translated into modern Serbian. That's where the law should react, where science must react. You have rightfully told the ministers in your statement that it is necessary to make a close connection with the scientific diaspora. I certainly agree with that, however, but I must tell you when we call, at least as far as culture, education and art are concerned, the competition we mainly involve the institutions of Serbs from the region who have the right to compete with their projects in these areas. And how do we define the region? You didn't define it, even in your law, it's an old rule written, the foreign ministry where countries of the region, countries of the former SFRY plus Albania, Romania and Hungary are said to be the only ones living there. You know, I don't want to make history right, but what about Italy, let's just say, this is just an example. Hundreds of years ago, Serbs lived in Italy. The despot Stefan Lazarevic, the blind, the last peaceful ruler of Serbia, holds his court in Italy for twenty years and remains there, remains the last traces of medieval Serbia. The first folk song in Serbian is not printed in Serbia, but in Italy. Co-workers of the Italian nation's Garibaldi are up to ten Serbs or at least ten Serbs, and of course Garibaldi participates in the Herzegovic uprising. Our relationships with Italy are amazing. Dr. Mila Mihajlovic wrote a book on some forgotten history, which is that the first ships that came to Albania to save the Serbian army were not France but an Italian navy, even asking questions that were more. At the mark of a hundred years of the Great War, Italy began this very event by pointing out its role in the rescue of an army that later broke through the Balkan front. Unfortunately, after the Second World War, we defined ourselves as a brotherhood and unity and supported those who made us Jadovno, Jasenovac, Storm and everything else and, of course, separated from that friendship and this year, we mark diplomatic relations with Italy for 140 years. You must know who our diplomats were in Italy, how much we appreciated it. In this order, Rakic, Dučić, Crnjanski, Andric. The best we had was there. In the end, I must say, in the March pogrom of KiM our saints survived, especially the Decani, only where the Italian battalion was. Why did I point this out? Italy is the only country where the number of Serbs is growing, but in Italy there is no magazine in Serbian, we are not indigenous, because we did not seek or demand indigenousness there, and if we did, we would have the right to have a show in Serbian at the moment. Empirical, scientifically proven where language is lost, the nation is lost. Unfortunately, more and more Serbian children enter the first class only in Italian. This is the same place where science should react. Our civilization heritage, Mr. Minister, is not certain to take out traffic signs, tear down construction fences, raise circus tents, limit people's movements and physically and verbally harass women. It's not our civilization fluid. The affirmation of our national identity must be a culture, as a national trait, only that and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55905	Here, Snezana Petrovic has the right to a replica, since it is mentioned by her name and last name, and then Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55906	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, thank you for mentioning, and it is my pleasure that we, as MPs, speak in one good mood, understand one another and support each other, but here it is not a matter of two MPs, or five MPs, this is a question of Serbia and the historical civilization values where it was created. The legislation was the first legal act of the Serbian state to which the Serbian state was established, and as you know, Mr. Minister, in the first part, this act contains church law, and in the second part it contains civil law. If we want to, I deeply believe that we want to, especially you as Minister of Education and your team, to show the general public to both scientific and general, but also to the international public at what values Serbia has been created, then I ask that this first legal act that was then written in the Serbian-Slovenian language of the Serb people at the time, to make a great effort to translate it into today's speech language, so that we can draw closer to the world of our people at what values Serbia is created. Please, it's predicted at the beginning of the 13th century, the right to a free life and a ransom from slavery. Is that enough to say that Serbia is a modern country created on the right of equality, on the right that it knows the elements of social justice and humanitarian law even then. This legislation drags its continuity through Dušan's code and later "Planier" which is written. So that's where we have the legal continuity. For the sake of Serbia and its citizens, for our history, but also for our future, please do what is in your power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55907	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55908	Thank you. It is more the role of Minister Vukosavljevic to do so, and it is mine to enter the education system somewhere, but certainly a common role. However, I would rather hold on to this speech that you people's MPs have just said, I share with you the opinion that Italy is an excellent friend, if not, in science it is safe, because Italy has only four scientific attachés in Europe, in Brussels, Berlin, Moscow and Belgrade. He's just saying how big a call we have to work with them. One of the colleges that we're going to work under creative models, first of all, we're based on experience in Italy. So, we have these very good relationships, we just need to rebuild them and cultivate them. I share with you and my opinion on Chinese science, the Chinese state. I was five, six times in different provinces and I really had a chance to see a lot of what. I was fascinated last year in November in Shanghai, the Shanghai Institute, short for SIM, has only two and a half billion euros in equipment. But what's good, our five high school institutions and institutes have a contract with them. We managed with them to show as a small country how talented our people are in biomedicine and many things and innovative drugs for Alzheimer's disease, for liver diseases, and so on, is in our plants that our diluters do. In Belgrade, we signed a protocol between the Joseph Pancic Institute for Biological Research, the IBIS Institute for Medical Research and Facultys of Agriculture Belgrade and Technological Belgrade, with such a powerful institute as Chinese. So we're a small country, but we can make a much bigger breakthrough about science, that language everyone understands. In Portugal we were relatively nearly and they doubled the number of scientific projects with us. That's where 95 young researchers live and work. Last year, the best young researcher in Portugal was our Dragana Vranes, physicist and many children there doctorate, and there is a lot of investment in science. So, we have natural allies and these are things that have to be raised and designed, like everything in life. What we have done in the last year and a half are designed Serbian complementary schools wherever in the world, introduce serious rules, introduce serious teachers, means monitoring, control and payment. It's not an ad hoc case anymore. Wherever the BH system is, we fight like lions for every German province, for Austria, for Switzerland, we did phenomenally, most of Germany and so on, but our heart is in place when you go to a rally, like Bud Wittenberg, when people tell you, here until three years ago, our children, our all, just German you hear, now you just hear Serbian. That's a big contribution. We're, unfortunately, getting more and more out there, I guess it's gonna stop, but the roots with the queen and everything we're obliged to do, design, which hasn't worked out in 12 years, there hasn't been a rule. So, he's been working on who's arrived, if he's dead, he's organized, he's fine, and nothing more than that. So, thanks for the creamburt, there's a lot more, but I think this is the right place to hear at least part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55909	Thank you, Minister. The word is Snow White Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55910	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for understanding and thank you for mentioning Minister Vukosavljevic. As MPs here, we expect that you, as colleagues, will discuss this and find the possibility and way to work together and do what is of historic importance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55911	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. The word is "Andrian Avramov."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55912	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, is now on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Proposal for a Law on Science and Research proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would stress that the bill is based on good European practice. Last week we held a public debate on the proposal for this law where we came to the conclusion that the intention of this law can only improve and speed up further the work of the laws on science and research. I will remind you of our country's admission to full membership by the European Nuclear Research Organisation CERN. In addition, on the basis of two public calls, 1157 young researchers have been involved in projects so far. The ministry supports the involvement of foreign returnees on projects implemented during the ongoing cycle of research. The proposed law covers the entire system of science and research in the Republic of Serbia and this planning and achievement of general interest in science and research to provide quality scientific research, status resolution and position of institutes, establishment and management structures in institutes, obtaining the status and separation of researchers, funding and organisations, as well as many issues concerning science and research, as well as academic communities in general. We MPs are aware that science and research is a driver for the development of the entire development of the Republic of Serbia, which is of great importance for social, economic and cultural development. We must not ignore and commend the importance of our scientists in the field of science and research that have contributed to the international sphere of science. Innovation, the acquisition of new knowledge and skills are systematically recognised in the draft of this law, and all in the interest of general social development. The scientific and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2016 to 2020 recognised and presented the measure of changing the model of funding for scientific and research work presented with the intention to improve and ensure the stability and efficiency of funding. What I would like to praise is that it provides for better co-ordination of universities with scientific institutes, but also with economics, which is of strategic importance for the overall system of the Republic of Serbia. Over the past few years, investments in science infrastructure have continued in Serbia, and we are referring to the construction of a scientific and technological park in Novi Sad and Nis, the building of the Biosens Institute in Novi Sad and the apartments for young researchers in Kragujevac. In this way we, headed by our President Aleksandra Vukic, as well as the Minister of Education, Mr Sarčević, strive to make our country, primarily our scientific chamber, have absolutely all conditions for progress and work in its fields. The state of Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, will continue to improve conditions for science and technology, as this improves the way our children and our future scientists are educated. I believe that this law is of great importance for the future development of science and research, and that is why I will certainly support this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55913	Thank you, colleague. The word is Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55914	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Science Mr. Sarčević, a respected guest from the Ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, following years of application of the Scientific and Research Activities Act of 2005, 2006, 2010 and 2015, the shortcomings that occurred in practice and in the academic community have been seen to reach a consensus on the need to change the existing system of funding science and research. The main reason for the adoption of a new law in the field of science and research is to change the model of funding scientific and research work. The ultimate objective of this reform of funding for scientific and research work is to establish a balance, i.e. a combination of institutional and project financing. In addition to institutional funding, a special fund will be formed to encourage research, so-called research. project financing. Institutional funding will have two components. The first - basic, which will ensure stable funding and the second – developmental, which will depend on the degree of performance parameters. Project financing means under the Fund's programme. The resources allocated through the Fund projects will be determined according to the project's proposed needs, not as is currently going towards the number of researchers and with a minimum contribution to the material costs that are based on scientific research. Based on the analysis in the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development report on the state of science from 2016 to 2017, we can say the following in the Republic of Serbia. Most of the budget funds, 73%, are distributed to research programmes financed by the project. The funds for research projects are spent mostly on funding researchers' work 76.86% of total assets, and the share of funds targeted in the material costs of research was extremely low. It is precisely these funds for material research costs that are crucial for the quality of scientific and research work, but nevertheless, it is important to point out the following. The science of the Republic of Serbia is highly cited in international ranking lists. The University of Belgrade is on the most prestigious ranking list of universities, so-called The Shanghai list. In 2018 it was ranked between 301 and 400th place, although it was a decline compared to 2017, when it was between 201 and 300th place. The explanation can be sought in the quality of individual students, i.e. professors, such as whether the professor or professor, Jovo Bakić. Seeking his works with Professor Atlagic, who is referred to by the WOS base, or the Cobson List, I found no scientific work, so I wonder on the basis of which papers and references he was chosen for the third time to rank as a fellow academic as Mr Todorovic by pathological hatred and one and the other by President Aleksandr Vukic, forgetting what the great poet Ducic said, that hate first affects the one who wears it. Therefore, esteemed MPs, honourable ministers and guests, beware of what you say, for Jovo Bakic is watching you. In addition to Belgrade's, the latest rankings in the areas on the Shanghai list included other universities. The second year in a row of the University of Nis and Kragujevac is between 401 and 500th place in the field of mathematics. The position last year included the University of Novi Sad, however, it held a ranking between 101th and 105th in the field of food technology, chemical engineering and veterinary sciences. University of Nis, the Faculty of Technology in Leskovac is among the 500 best in chemical engineering. The Faculty of Sports and Physical Education in Nis is in the first 300 places, but let's do one analysis in scientific and research results. It's dominated by scientific works. Of the total number, 55% are scientific papers published in international fifth review magazines, meaning N20 and N25. Of the total number of scientific papers, 46.5% are published in magazines referenced by WOS base, 49.8% in Kopus database magazines. In top international journals with the largest impact factor, 30% of the total number of scientific papers were published. Research excellence depends on the field of research. The schedule of published works in top international magazines is neither uniform in programmes nor in areas within the programme. The highest percentage of published works has been achieved under the basic research programme, 49%, and the highest share of works in top international magazines is 72% and in physics. I think that's what the Vinci Institute contributes most to that. The number of results that may be relevant to the economy is low. Of the total number of these results achieved, patents and technical solutions are only 2.3%. That is why one of the many objectives achieved by the adoption of this law is the application of research results, as well as the more efficient work of committees in the system of scientific and research work. If we want a knowledge-based economy, then the overall separation for science in Serbia must be greater. In 2017, it was 0.93% of GDP. So that's twice the EU average, where it's 2,03%, but that's why in 2019 funds were provided in the budget of 14,805,000 dinars. The percentage of financial resources needed for 2020 is increasing, meaning 15 billion 408 million 760 thousand, and in 2021, worth 17 billion 218 million 243 thousand. The adoption of this law on science and research, which is a system law, will create conditions for an institutionalised system of support for scientific research and implementation of the science and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period 2016. – In 2020, through innovation research, as a roof and development document. Finally, to you, Mr. Sarcevic, I can congratulate you for leaving the show on TV "N1" and thus showing the strength of your authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55915	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55916	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, this bill finally guarantees material rights to researchers and authors of scientific works, and will no doubt encourage the development of scientific and research work. The law will achieve a strategic objective in the field of science and research, set up by the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy from 2016 to 2020, to change the funding model to ensure stable funding with effective and optimal use of budgetary resources. What's new about this bill? It is new to establish a balanced combination of institutional and project financing of scientific and research work. Institutional funding will have two components - a basic component that will ensure stable financing and development component that depends on the degree of performance performance performance performance. With this law, together with the Law on the Fund for Science of the Republic of Serbia, essentially, competitive project financing will raise the quality of projects, further motivate scientific and research work, revive the competitive spirit and competition among researchers. It is also good to repeat this opportunity that the first call has already been made to researchers, to compete with their projects in June this year, and that by the end of the year two more calls will be made. By passing this law, we will remove the shortcomings observed during the years of application of the Law on Scientific and Research Action, while at the same time adapting the scientific and research work to a new solution to the development of science, culture and art, as one of the strategic objectives pursued by the SNS, led by President Aleksandr Vukic and his coalition partners. The adoption of this law will achieve another key goal, which is the creation of a scientific and research sector, which can be an equal partner within the European Research Area and which will positively affect Serbia's economic growth and progress. I think the bill of science and research is good, and I suggest we adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55917	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55918	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to thank you in the way you defend Serbia, the Serbian language and the Serbian Academy of Sciences, wherever you appear, in a dignified and reasoned way. As far as the law goes, since 2005 and in turn until 2015, with additions, this is one roof law, one new law, because it is inevitable that there is a new law. It's simple, science has advanced and there's a need for law. The Law on Science and Research actually comes down to basic goals, but one of the main objectives is the way of funding. In fact, most of the time there has been a projected funding, now there will be a balance or balance between institutional and projected investment, and that's good. We don't need to hire scientists, we need to have quality, and we're going to cultivate that quality. One of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was science, i.e. education, technological development. I am proud of it, and that is why, from 2015 to 2018, much more was allocated than before, and 36% more funds, that is precisely why. About how you, or we do, I mean the government, our president, are just talking about new research centres. A specific technology center on Starry, which is too small, has not enough room to receive all young researchers. I think we should, there's another center like that, and then we did good projects for Novi Sad. The construction started. Then, for Nis, a good project was made, construction will begin. Also, this new technology centre in Kragujevac will be created and not only that, the tendency to create new scientific centres, scientific and research centres such as "Petnica" and "Trsic", but also in many other areas across our beautiful Serbia, in much smaller places. Here, I've heard from you and it's proud to open a geo-science centre with NIS in the White Church, which is very good. Research centres in Valjevo, Trstenik, will also open. Great. For those young people who are in these smaller environments and who think there's no way for them. On the contrary. The public debate was held on this law and that's very good. All were able to make known about their proposals, from the Academy of Sciences, through academic communities, young researchers and others, and what was even better, what everyone had forenamed, or draft law, was given to the Academy of Science and Arts, and so also looked at Belgrade and Nis, a lecturerate in Nis, the University of Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac. So she's become one, such a wide-ranging leprosy. Anyone who wanted could have made their proposals, suggestions, and I can see that through this law a lot has been passed. What I liked most is what I care about young people, future scientists, and how they could build families faster. We know they're scientists, they act like science, so that doesn't happen. Well, that's what the government of the Republic of Serbia was worried about, because two years ago, we passed a law on that the militia, or the MUP, as well as the BIA, but young scientists will be given the opportunity to afford apartments that will cost 500 euros per square metre, which is an extremely good stimulant for these children. When I tell the kids, they're all young scientists, researchers, who will stay in this country. There's a lot of good in this law, I'm just going to list some characteristics and what this law can stimulate, and it's going to stimulate economic activity and increase competition, which is extremely important, because we survive thanks to market competition if we're in the market economy, if we're with good staff, good potential, and we are. Serbia is a country of good potential. We have extremely good young scientists in mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics. I see we're 23rd on CERN. It's usually a special area in researching nuclear physics, and I'm proud of what's happening in my country. It should also be said that the new Law on Science and Research provides for the next institutional funding of science, then more effective monitoring of the Institute's work assessment, the mechanism for establishing new institutions. What was important to me was to connect the Institute with the colleges and become their partner. There's a lot more to talk about, I think it was enough of me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55919	The word is Jelena Žarić. A blacksmith. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55920	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposal for the adoption of a new law on science and research is the result, above all, of the shortcomings observed in the application of the Law on Scientific and Research Work, as well as the result of the growing importance of scientific and research work, which greatly contributes to social progress. We must bear in mind that Serbia really has a great research potential, that the system must be improved and that support for scientific research must be greater. This is why it is necessary to pass one such system law that will create conditions for greater support, to better carry out research activities, but also to increase the application of research results. The scientific and technological development strategy for the period from 2016 to 2020, with an action plan for its implementation, is a document that provides for the reform of science, to bring us closer to developed countries. The accent was put here for funding. In these countries, there is a combined system of funding science, which is a combination of institutional and project funding. Serbia has great potential in science and research, and it really needs to be pointed out all the time. But it should be used in the right way in our country's progress. This is also witnessed by the high positioning of our scientific community on international ranking lists. So scientific papers are published in both domestic and international high-class magazines and form an integral part of all bases, all works. The application of this law will allow greater quality of research, allow better application of results in the economy, greater availability of results especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for some other users. Also, higher budget allocations are needed to ensure an adequate level of research, in order to provide support for young talents, issue scientific journals, make registers of researchers, in order to accelerate the development of science and the application of scientific and research results. When we talk about a bill, we always keep in mind the effects that this bill will have, that is, the application of that law, and all these positive effects that I have stated are enough to support the proposed solutions. What is particularly important is the fact that this law will stimulate economic activity and competition through the realisation of the objectives of scientific research. Therefore, new knowledge will be created to encourage technological and economic development, and thus, to raise the standard of living and the quality of life of citizens. It will work to improve scientific research capacities, raise technology levels in the economy and improve the competitiveness of goods and services on the market. The co-operation of different institutions will be crucial, both at the local, regional, European and global level. A Science Fund was formed in Serbia this year. The first public call for funding young researchers' projects in the early phase of their career is now being called. The program is intended for all fields of science and aims to animated young doctors to form their teams and manage projects. The programme is worth sixm euros, and the competition opened for all young scientists by 2 September. All praise is, of course, the involvement of young scientists and researchers. In this way, they are given a chance to stay in Serbia. But we are all given the chance that they will help us, to help us with their expertise, their education, to make Serbia a more modern, more developed country that will move forward with the progress of technology in the world. In that sense, as an example of good practice, I would like to indicate the construction of a scientific and technological park in Nis, with the support of, of course, the resolution ministry. The town of Nis has so far taken up a number of activities in the realisation of this project, and the project will create a regional centre to help businesses achieve business success in the high-tech market. The first phase of the project was completed, therefore, the construction and equipment of the Faculty of Electronic Sciences of the University of Nis. The second phase involves building a multi-purpose lamela that will be practical support for student and teaching entrepreneurship and new types of education. The third phase covers building the very scientific and technological park itself. The work is expected to be completed next year. Dear Ministers, in Nis as a unit of local self-government you will always have a reliable partner on the projects, and I will be very happy to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55921	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55922	Thank you. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, respected ministers with associates, somehow keeping words and keeping promises to the people is the most important job in politics. It is a formal principle and a basis for the behaviour of all political structures everywhere in the world, including in Serbia. However, we are witnessing, unfortunately, that it has not been so many times in Serbia, that it was in fact only one formal principle, and in fact it seemed quite different. However, we are also witnessing that somewhere since 2014, the principle has become formal, but also essential. He is essentially becoming from the first government of Alexander Vukic, when the principle of what was promised to the people must be fulfilled. This is the principle on which all future governments rest, in conclusion with this day in which you perform the function you perform and which are the essential continuation and continuity of that policy from 2014. This law that is before us today, i.e. The bill of law that lies before us today is just a confirmation of that. How? Namely, we received our promises in 2017 in the election of today's government, whose minister you are, in the exposé of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Even then, in 2017, the prime minister's exposé promised, I quote, that it will work to improve the competitiveness of science, research, innovation in the function of economic development and that this will be one of the government's priorities, and that reform of scientific institutes and change in the way of funding scientific research is necessary to realise this goal. And here's the exposé as a promise and here's the law to confirm this promise. Namely, here is the law which for the first time clearly regulates the positions of the institute, clearly regulates the position of the research sector, but also the way of funding, thus contributing to security and the complete sector, as well as those involved in it, researchers and scientists in the Republic of Serbia. I, Minister, once and before said that you were in my court, and I wasn't looking at statistics, but I suppose, a member of the government who probably spent the most time with us in this respected home of all the other ministers. That, above all, speaks of your commitment to reforming complete Serbian education and science. That is to say, you are someone who, together with the president and the prime minister, is committed to keeping what was promised in this exposé. I know that today is not a topic of education, but I ask you, too, to continue with these good initiatives that concern, first of all, the regulation of excursions and the intention of our students to visit the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, to learn about all that is important to our national Corps in the Balkans, what has pressured us for centuries, with Gradin, with all those crimes that happened to us in 1941, first of all, what came from NDH and that on such principles we are raising our youth and teaching our students. I also absolutely support you in what you do when it comes to establishing links with universities in Republika Srpska, above all, with what is based on that special and parallel relationship agreement, which is actually a Dayton category. As long as, Minister, you are thus working on reforming Serbian education, Serbian sciences, but also establishing links with our Corps in the Balkans at all, be sure that, among us Serbian MPs, above all those from the SNS, you will have secure allies in this business, and more importantly, I am sure that you will have allies in the people in the Republic of Serbia. With that in mind, here, once again, we will support this legislative proposal that is before us today, and I ask you to proceed in the starting direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55923	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55924	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in support of all the arguments we have heard in the debate so far, primarily from the authorised representative of the SNS, the esteemed colleague of Orlic, but also of all the other speakers who have made all the benefits that this law will produce, I would add another argument, and he refers to how the professional and scientific public views the proposed legal provisions. On June 17, this year, the House of the National Assembly held a public hearing on the subject of the Proposal for a Law on Science and Research, and on that occasion some prominent experts, who were present, gave their opinion, i.e. their vision. So academician Zoran Popovic, president of the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, says he is now moving to institutional financing and being a scientific worker at the Institute can be said to become an interest, unlike the former project, which did not allow the safe status of scientific workers in institutes. Then, academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic called this bill a turning point, as it was made in the spirit of good European rules, and praised the introduction of the possibility of funding researchers from the diaspora. Then, Dr. Aleksandar Belic, a scientific adviser at the Institute of Physics, praised the institutional financing that brings predictability and security to researchers and the possibility that they could fully devote themselves to work on projects. He mentioned one, he said, an important problem, and we agree that this is an important problem, and that's the problem with brain drains. The bill provides a paper that should reduce the number of people going abroad, which is financing doctoral studies to successful students. Then, Dr. Pavle Pavlovic estimated the greatest achievement of the bill, which introduces institutional financing. Dr. Misa Djurkovic, who said the bill itself, was good in contrast to the laws that were passed by emergency procedures. Then, Prof. Dr. Petar Marin, Belgrade University of Belgrade's procurator, composed of 31 universities and 11 institutes, noted that the bill is more quality than the Draft. He specifically referred to the position of young researchers and that it is important to improve the bill with a desire for them to be preserved in Serbia at all costs. Furthermore, Dr. Mladen Lukic, director of the Institute of Fruiting, noted that in the previous period it was a major transition of projects, over 90%, but without real evaluation. The proposed legislative solutions will now evaluate the scientific projects presented in the relevant reports every five years. So this is a confirmation of the scientific and professional public when it comes to supporting this bill. When it comes to the involvement of scientific researchers, which we have heard a lot about in the debate so far, it should be said that we currently have 1,431 researchers at universities, 287 researchers employed in innovation centres, 3,736 funded researchers in all scientific institutes in Serbia, 7,074 researchers, therefore, teachers and associates whose work is financed through projects of the Ministry of Education. So it's about salaries, plus direct costs. material costs. So this number totals 12,500 researchers. Guys, this isn't a small number. Twelve and a half thousand. That's two and a half ironworks. It is a serious figure, with 36% more resources being identified for science compared to earlier years. It's directly 36% more science, these people, these 12,500 people will have benefit directly. For some, it's the only source of income. That should be in mind. These are all concrete incentives for the work of scientific researchers and these measures raise the quality of scientific and research work in Serbia, and that is the goal of this law. Reforming the system of scientific and research work, therefore, to improve the system, to ensure a stable financing system and, of course, to make effective use of these budgets. While we are talking about what we have provided, today is one MP, the former prime minister in question, Zoran Zivkovic, came to the Assembly, although only to the hall he arrived, held a press conference and said everyone in SNS is thieves and sloths. It's his work for today. A man came to the Assembly, said – everyone in the SNS had thieves and sloths, gone home. We here in the O.R. all day doing our job, the work that the citizens have chosen us for, and he comes to the press conference, insults the MPs at home or wherever, and that's his work. Citizens have a chance to see who's lazy here and who's really doing something. On the subject of who the thief is, so I can see that no SNS has granted subsidies to itself for some non-existent vineyards, nor has any of us garnered 500m euros, so he can't even explain where he got 500m euros, like that Gilas, or any of us getting millions of donations from some international criminals, such as that of Jeremic. How can I tell you, they're, when it comes to it, all the same, there's no fundamental difference between them. They'd argue eventually over what they don't like to share. They like to participate, they like to serve, but they don't like to share at all. They always fight when it comes to sharing. Perhaps they heard about that mathematical rule that one colleague, MP Savic, today, said that it was not right to share with zero, if I understood correctly. When we talk about them, we talk about moral and political zeroes. For all these reasons, I want to strongly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55925	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55926	Thanks again. And as well as my colleague Markovic, today's discussion has prompted me to think about what we have the opportunity to hear as any comment on what we are talking about here today, all that the Republic of Serbia is doing, I would underline once again, with great success. He's right, colleague Markovic. People who are able, like Zoran Zivkovic, to do things like this today really deserve a good look at their personal contribution to Serbia's development in any way. Of course, we're talking about all the devastation and the destruction of what's under their paws at one point, unfortunately for Serbia, I have to say again, either. We need to talk about investment too, because it's inseparable from the other topics we're dealing with today. We need to talk about investment, because it's the deepest possible in the subject of what we're talking about today. When it comes to both, and the other, here, this Zoran Zivkovic, he wonders today, he did so at this press conference that he worked so hard, in those ten minutes today, what we're going to do with an investment like a subway. So what should be absolutely undisputed is clear that it is good and beneficial, is the question of these people who have never shown any responsibility, they could only waste the time of this people. In that sense, I agree, the good messages were also for those people who do not belong to the parliamentary majority, but they have thought openly about these topics that we are talking about. Good messages. The most expensive for a nation, the most expensive for a society is when someone spends their time, when someone destroys their generations. Anything else we can, less or more, easily or hard to replace, but that, that resource, that time, that's impossible to make up for. That when he left, it went irrevocably, and that, among other things, falls under physical laws. Today we're talking about different important scientific categories. Time can't come back that way. That time that we lost during the regime that burned and burned this country by 2012, we can't go back today, but we can do it, and we can do it, to solve all the damage they've done, to try to catch a connection with the world, and we've lost one complete, important share, when it comes to running in modern technologies, when it comes to the race in progress, a complete revolution in industry, we've missed because it wasn't, on the one hand, political understanding, someone's going to say good luck when it comes to our relationships with so-called. Great forces, and on the other hand there was no real response through our internal policy to that kind of danger and challenge. Today we must, indeed, do everything that is up to us to try to compensate through the effects, through the results, to try to catch up to everyone else and, as we said today, it seems to me that everyone who spoke today, but absolutely all of us, from one to another parliamentary group, is no longer a question of the difference and belonging to the parliamentary majority, we must try to show that we are winning this world in what we absolutely can, and we prove today that we can, in ideas, in abilities, in creative approach, in solutions. Modern technologies have given space to the soul for that kind of competition, but indeed the soul gave. We have no reason for such a good, extraordinaryly good IT sector in our country, indeed, a sector which, we often talk about, grows from year to year and year shows that it is more successful and that it can export more and more, that it can make solutions that are completely competitive on the world's agenda, so nothing worse, even in many things and better than those that make so-called. developed countries, Western countries, as we say here, and the United States and anyone from Western Europe and other countries that can't be trapped by anyone to underestimate modern technologies. Chinese companies today, ladies and gentlemen, dictate a world-wide pace when it comes to 5G technology, which is rarely commented today, among other things, because it has been gradually introduced into Serbia. So when we say "Huavei" today no one will say -- that's some Chinese company that might be dealing with cheap shoe production, you know what prejudices all have been on for Asian companies. No, today everyone will say -- they're the ones who dictate today's standards for introducing the most modern technology when it comes to mobile communications. We can work with them as we do today. With them in some creative solutions, such as good algorithms, we can also compete and it is nothing to run from. On the contrary, it's an opportunity that should always be taken. We should try to be better in that segment. We deal with these topics that way. Our answer was always a responsibility, our answer was always a serious approach, courage where it should be. So, also to participate in the market, courage and political to show when necessary, and for a country like Serbia, if it wants to take care of itself, if it wants to take care of its people, that courage is something that is like an axiom placed on a daily basis. When Serbia is headed by people who realize that this courage is necessary and are ready to show it, as it has today, so once again, Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the governments we choose, then that state acts as a successful state, then it produces results. While we had cowards like these Zivkovics, which we talked about, but also many others, who were major pests, everything was completely different. What will they tell you today? Well, they're going to say everything they need to do in some way to present them in something better, as if all of us in this country from Mars had fallen, as if yesterday the history of Serbia had started and nothing happened at the time when they had the opportunity to show what and how they could. So, when they were brutally rich and the earth was falling apart. He mentioned today, in addition to this rule that it is not only important to share with zero or zeroes, MP Savic is another thing, that it is very important to take care of rational approach, not only in science, but also in politics, if you want in life, whenever you ask yourself what is the smartest, what is most useful, always ask yourself first what is a rational approach, that you are not only guided by what you would like but to see what this thing connects to a reasonable, logical explanation and to draw conclusions, to determine whether there is a rule. When we talk about people like Zoran Zivkovic, Dragana Dilas, including Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, eventually brought all these people to the opportunity to get as much money as they are, the strange rule that the balance on their bank accounts is growing in their companies at an exponential rate at the same time as our production level drops, while we have hundreds of thousands of people running out of jobs, while we are shutting down thousands of companies. It's something that can be explained rationally, and a rational explanation is hidden in a simple formula -- that Serbia's collapse was directly for the account or for the benefit of these people, and it's a simple, logical explanation that explains everything else to you and why they didn't try to stop it, why they often acted like they really wanted to encourage that kind of decay. Because, according to that clear rule, they were getting better and better at making Serbia worse and worse. They're gonna pretend like nothing happened and they just showed up yesterday. Again, like today, Dragan Gilas, in front of TV cameras, will boast fiction, literally fiction, that, you imagine, once more invested, as we talk about investment and talk about investment, in the City of Belgrade. I guess at a time when those 500m euros of income came to his firms, and the City of Belgrade was in charge of 1.2 billion euros? Well, then, it's said, more invested. And what the budget was where and where worse than today, that doesn't matter. It's, like, we've all forgotten. Well, we didn't. That those 1.2 billion were made by him personally, and people were saved and responsible, who, after the people told Gilas -- are no longer interested and out of our way, came to the head of the City of Belgrade about half the debt, that we now need to forget it happened and act like Gilas showed up in 2019, so it won't be possible. Is it around 890 million, since it's talking about investments in the Dragan Gilas sewer system today, about how much has been invested for five years by its authorities? Is 500 million more invested for a shorter period after that? That's the facts. It's an indicator of how much you invest and what's bigger. Is there something bigger that's 500 million above what's being compared to or less? It's simple stuff. That's what every child will be able to answer. Is the investment in 422 pump stations, since it also likes to smarten up Dragan Gilas, in the period after which more investment and more care or how much he invested – were there zero pump stations? It's a simple thing, and everyone will be able to find an answer again. Today's people from his new political party, that's what Dragan Gilas recently marketed, refer to investments, refer to Belgrade's development by possessing absolutely every construction site, every building site under God's love they see somewhere on the street, which somewhere with a table that announces the works they'll show up, they're right to chase him. The destruction of fences, the abduction of signs, the bullying of workers and then from Monday to Friday do so, so they stop the works, sabotage everything they get, and for the weekend from home, typically, via Twitter, they ask questions – and why don't you finish the project, and why don't you finish the work? On the one hand, they collapse and try to stop everything, and on the other hand, they're smart and they pretend that there's a lot of wisdom that they're not happy with at some speed. They're not happy with the speed of what they're trying to stop at all costs, and now we need to pretend it's normal. On the one hand, we pretend they didn't do what they did to Belgrade and Serbia, and on the other hand, pretend it was normal. It'll go a little harder. It is also clear to them, because recently this Bastac, Gilasov Bastac, decided to show how popular it is in Old Town, whose head, unfortunately, I must say, is for the people who belong to that municipality. He saved a man from making his own phantom referendum. It shows you the relevance of these people in a political sense and what they can count on when it comes to any support. For twenty days and more than twenty days, his men, without any control of their own recognition, walked all over Old Town and recorded their own support, how they estimated that someone loved them or didn't love them, what did they all lie about, and you know how much they found support? About 20%. That's ridiculous. So 20% of them came up with this referendum that they faked themselves and now he wants to explain to us that he is terribly popular and that he should hold 100% of the government in Old Town by exposing that he may have 20% of the support. How big is it? You remember that very well. Did he participate in elections for the Belgrade City Assembly just a year and a few days ago? How many votes did he get then? It was at the level of the number of invalid ballots, and even the valid ballots beat it. It's an indicator, ladies and gentlemen, that people understand these things. Gilas can't lie to the people. The people remember well. Bastac cannot act like a hooligan and stop investment, development and investment and then say it is normal and deserves support. It won't deserve the support of the people ever, that's what the people clearly say. We talked today about this law also having to do with the international plan and co-operation that we set up at that level and we also talked about European projects, but there are also representatives of the ministry that were present at the public debate, in the public hearing that we organised in the House of the National Assembly. Here we talked about the topic that are all different sources of funding of this kind of project. It seems to me that here, IPA funds have recognised the participation, therefore, of European money, 31.5 million if I remember the euro well, is irrevocably defined for this kind of project, so for science and research projects. If we had planned these integrations, we were successful, just as much as we would not like these diverse Gilas, Jeremici, the court with Bosko Obradovic at the head, who today the biggest Europeans of all Europeans in Serbia, who today love the EU and swear most on the European Commission they called new communicated by yesterday, remember that well, criticised its commissioners for destroying everything in Serbia, and now they are living role models, people who represent the world's greatest authority, just because they think they will find allies to deal with us. If. Let Bosko Obradovic show how Europe's greatest man should behave against all Europeans, we have nothing against, among other things, a newly discovered lover but also a US pet, everything is fine, a man has the right to his political elections. But, see, they want to say that Serbia today is not successful in European integration. For them, it is bad you know that Serbia will open a new negotiating chapter on Monday, as much as it bothers them, because it somehow does not fit their picture that they have found a way to disgust Serbia throughout the world and to stop it on the way to any development. About that and about these funds, therefore, funding science and research. Immediately afterwards, Serbia competes for the new 179m euros from the IPA funds. And which, of course, cannot have anything to do with the investments that are coming to Serbia. I have to say once again that we are more successful as reliable business partners to investors who are interested in this whole part of Europe than any other country in the environment. So everyone else doesn't provide that much investment, and they would love to. Who knows what they would give if they were in Serbia today, not providing as much investment as the Republic of Serbia itself has provided. Among other things, because we show that we are developing this kind of co-operation with countries and Western Europe, Central Europe and Eastern Europe, but not just Europe. We have extraordinary co-operation with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China, with different countries of Africa, Latin America, so everything that no one else can offer literally in the region, and let me be impeccable if I say a little wider than it is. So this kind of relationship, I can't think of any other country in the world having them as it is, as it does, as the Republic of Serbia is building them today with success. Of course we all know, there is no such thing without personal involvement and without the power that it is, in order to produce the results of this kind, personally invested by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. I'm not telling you anything new when I tell you that everyone knows where our key asset is hiding in the development of this kind of relationship. We can thank that kind of relationship for everything else that we manage to do together with these countries, to our different partners, and to economic co-operation, when it comes to scientific and research co-operation and when it comes to joint companies, investment, larger exports to other markets. These are all valuable things. It all allows our cash register to be fuller, at any moment to be additional plus recorded, sometimes smaller, sometimes larger, but always to be constant, to always be built on sound grounds and to get away from me, and because of that, we can finance these significant investments that we need. Everybody knows that. Corridor 10, which we've been waiting for, the south end has been opened recently, five or seven decades. So, we succeeded among other things, among other good things to provide, because we acted this seriously and responsibly, we developed good relations, we spread our markets, we conquered new ones, we brought investors, we hired people, we acquired more and we were carefully domestically treated for what we were getting, and then we invested it wisely. And today that kind of investment we have. This type of investment relating to the new investment cycle announced by President Aleksandar Vukic in value, ranging from fantastic for Serbia five to ten billion euros, we will be able to bring out such a responsible and host relationship. It is clear that Serbia could not have imagined it in a period of several years. So Serbia had to come to a point that it could finance such a thing. Today we say and I say it openly, it can and will. So, not only do these big projects like the subway, which they can no longer agree on now that they wanted to rob the people and make them richer on it, so they praised them all the time, but they didn't move their fingers for it, now they say if we needed it. But we need, we're going to make it, like Corridor 10 and the South Side, but also the east one that's about to open up. Corridora, which we will also talk about at this session, but under another debate, so let's keep it a little bit more to say on this topic these days, which will combine Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. So, for Serbia, fantastic infrastructure. Something that we really do not only need but is so welcome that it will be difficult for anyone to explain why this is wrong for Serbia. The story of Gilas, we already know for what reasons, we said and we explained them. And that kind of investment and that kind of investment that might not seem so attractive, but it's essential for people. For example, he's doing a sewer net for that left bank of the Danube because of the flood these days, that's what they're talking about. So it's literally worth over tens of millions of euros. That's a hell of a lot of money today. But today, unlike the period when only looking at how many tens or hundreds of millions of euros will end up on the Đilasovic account of the company or in Jeremic's entrepreneurial actions, we can secure that money without it being at the expense of someone's future, without anyone's children in this country having to figure out how to get it back, but based on what we've already earned, what we can bear to finance, without jeopardising ourselves, or our children, or their future. That kind of infrastructure we've also been waiting for decades like Corridors, we want to work and that's going to be a clear reality. When we talk about investments, not being the main topic for any reason, Belgrade or the area to which the road or railways should go, every part of Serbia, but literally every part of Serbia, from the northernmost point to the southernmost point, can testify to the fact that a serious effort is being made to bring companies, factories, production plants to open, wherever we can, literally wherever we can in different parts of Serbia where no one was, literally, there was no stranger to pass even if by chance, we were from the municipality to the municipality, from town to town, we could testify that Alexander Vukic had personally opened up, so not only attended when the works started, but opened up completed facilities in which people today take place, in which they obtained their income on the basis of which they had and children to buy what they needed from somewhere. All that a man would say is understood to be normal, but what was inconceivable for these people until someone who was able to provide them with good solutions and that what they were normally made accessible to them. Every part of Serbia, and KIM we talked about exhaustively just two weeks or three, in this room here, 140 projects today, the Republic of Serbia is funding for KIM that are directly important to our people, for our countrymen living in the territory of our southern autonomous province, 140, among which are strategic projects. So, projects of extra-serial importance. Among them is the regional waterway for the north, which will now open on Vidovdan on June 28th. When could anyone have thought it was real to start, bring it into some mature phase, let alone complete it before Alexander Wolf and SNS? A question for everyone. When? We all know the answer. We've said it again today and we'll tell you as many times as it takes why the answer is that. It is not only that, of course, Rajska Banja in Banjska, many other things, and basic infrastructure and important facilities and schools if you want, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes. All of this for us to finance today is what we can and we're doing it right now. For example, when it comes to kim, what we have to offer to the world, and that the product of home mind, home-made abilities, what hardworking people in this country have created for themselves, so now that I have mentioned this Vidovdan, you will be able to see, to see with your eyes and to convince every interested citizen, this very Friday, at Vidovdan, at the arms and military equipment fair. A partner who started today in Belgrade is primarily for business users in the first two, three days, and Friday all interested citizens can see what is offered, not only on the world plan by other companies dealing with the most modern weapons, the latest technologies when it comes to military equipment, but what Serbia can offer. What our companies, which I think, of 120 exhibitors, are almost 90 and something, 100, are our representatives, are our companies, our companies, our development institutes and businesses. In the domain of defence technologies, we are today doing a lot of things that someone who doesn't deal with these things, who doesn't follow them, could say: they produce only America, or the great countries of Western Europe, which includes the personal weapons of the newest generation, but also modern electronic systems. That, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia is able to produce, today Serbia is able to place and co-operate with the largest, most sound world names. Today, the opening of a partner is attended personally by Aleksandar Vukic, and at that time, in his presence, it is also scheduled to sign a co-operation agreement between the military office Moma Stanojlović and Erbasa. Imagine that kind of cooperation, not only in the domain of defence technology and military industry, but in any other. How many big, sounding names world-renowned came to Serbia, formed a partnership relationship with our companies in the last year or two, how many examples we have brought here. And find Western companies, like those in the airplane engine industry. So, the best possible technique and technology. But to look at companies that belong to the so-called so-called. The eastern world or the world that, I said, is already coming from the far east, for example from China. These investments, Jellyzara, RTB "Bor", are the things to be provided and built. And their values. These are values that a man, an ordinary man, a small man, can't understand, can't imagine what they are -- a billion and 400, almost 500 million worth of investment in RTB Bor. It's hard to explain what you can buy for it. But for those things we provide, we directly secure our future. Because once again, we want to invest wisely in it, because we care about providing the conditions that Serbia needs every day to progress more, that tomorrow Serbia has those conditions that will allow those who come after us to say -- we have enough space, we have enough resources. To show now that we can accomplish more than our fathers. And they certainly left us more than they had their own or more than our father's grandfathers could dream of. Because of this relationship and this kind of serious approach and planning, Serbia today, as much as it did not like the different Đilas, Jeremic, Eurofanatic Obradovic, Zivkovic, does not matter, is indeed in his golden age. So, at a time when we record bigger salaries, bigger pensions, growth among top 10 in Europe on an annual basis, when we bring in foreign companies, but when we encourage the creation of our own. We're building our house in a smart way and that's why we have a way to realize all of this that generations before us couldn't imagine. And once again, let's leave it to those who come after us significantly more than we found, and yet it'll be good enough as a springboard for them to beat us in good things. And these are the answers when it comes to investment, these are the answers when it comes to investment, these are the answers when it comes to a responsible relationship with the future. It is, in the very end, ladies and gentlemen, how in practice it is proved what is often said - that Serbia is loved, that this love is shown by works. It's easy to say it's right. It's hard to show. Because showing it requires hard work, it requires hard work, it requires the absence of any desire for the personal comforts of those who have taken responsibility. Because we treat this work as something that is most important to us, precisely because it is worthy of what is our greatest value, our Serbia, we achieve this kind of result. Who can compete with them? They can apply for people's trust in Serbia. Who can't get close to these results, that, and that is the final message for the on-call critics of everything and everything, should not think at all about politics, at least not in Serbia and at least not at a time when they must compete with Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. To compete, he will have to be better than Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, and there is no such thing in Serbia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55927	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Nusic - knowledge has limits, ignorance is gone. Milia's not here, so I have to explain. So you mentioned Zoran Zivkovic, the big farmer in the attempt. He's got science. Science means learning. It's only a big vacation from school, but he learned with matches. Well, if that's science, then these young generations can learn something from it, especially in small and large fraud. But veterinary technicians could learn that instead of the vaccine for chickens inoculation can also be carried out with dilute yogurt. It's that after that, there's no saving the chickens, but it's to be charged nicely. So any comparison with Zoran Zivkovic is humiliating for all future young generations. He says -- knowledge is the power with which you can change the world, so I believe this country, I think that's what Mandela said, that we can change this country too by investing in knowledge. In my opinion, it's important that teachers learn first. I'm not the one who's gonna criticize just one doctorate. That's what these yellow ticks learned -- just doctors who aren't theirs, they're suspicious doctors. And since they held all the universities, since they have these sitting scientific heads, I wonder what their doctorates are, given that many of their doctors, professors, doctors of science, almost have no scientific work. Like, what can the young learn from Jova Bakic? Jovo Grandma's a protégé. How with short pipes in science, in taking over RTS, imagine this work, what, it's like working, the scientific work of Jova Bakic, how political opponents chase the streets? How to chase them, and how to teach young ones, to convey that knowledge? So, in my opinion, knowledge must also be applicable. So, first one who wants to teach someone has to learn something himself. What will Jovo Bakic transfer from his knowledge if he surrenders long pipes, replaces short pipes with long tubes in RTS and teaches how to chase a political opponent down the street? What kind of knowledge is that? That's where we have to define the difference between calling and knowing. So those who learn first needed to learn something, so when they got a calling, they had to have some knowledge, and that knowledge had to be portable. He must be taught to the death. When someone dies, who I think is very smart, I feel sorry for a man, but I'm even sadder for dying in knowledge with him. If that knowledge isn't transmitted, it's a multiple damage. Not only did a man die, not only did a smart man die, but he died with him and knowledge that wasn't enough or not transmitted at all. Knowledge must be applicable, and I think it would be even more important to make it applicable in this country. Perhaps in scientific research we will get some new Tesla, Pupina, Milevo Maric, maybe Milankovic again, but the question is where will this knowledge be applied. I would like it to be applied to us, first of all in our economy, to use that knowledge, so when I learn something, to benefit from it myself, to have a society, to have a state, to benefit from some new generation, to leave the country always in a better condition for new generations than we have from previous generations. But I don't see that we have that kind of knowledge. Imagine Cedomir Chupic, he conveys knowledge of how to chase young students and how to teach, let's say, I can't even say it here, even though he speaks to very young people about some of his sexual delusions. Imagine this knowledge that needs to be transmitted and transmitted by Cedomir Čupić. Come on, imagine Danica Popovic. Imagine Danica Popovic, who deleted his fellow professor from his textbook just because he died. So, we take the two of us translate the work, our colleague translates 11 chapters, my colleague Atlagic, I translate 10, we put it nicely for the textbook, and it's not appropriate, my colleague Atlagic dies, don't be appropriate. Imagine, next year I delete it from my textbook, print it again, change the sentences a little bit. It's funny to you, but it's done by a professor at the Faculty of Economics named Danica Popovic. And "N1" television, it is the same unregistered "N1" television, and that is knowledge and art, how to make 500m euros through fake, border channels of SBB, how to use state resources and how to rob Serbia through subscribers, etc., such as Gilas and Solak and get 500m euros, counterpart Orlic. So, Mrs Popovic, no lies, no fraud, threw out a dead colleague. He's only guilty because he died, he's gone in his textbooks, you sign up your assistant and you push him away. So the man died, and his knowledge died, and the knowledge that was transmitted through that textbook by translation, etc., and you make it up to no one. Imagine that kind of knowledge and imagine that advent of these kinds of doctors of science. Modern science can't explain this. So such scientists, the type of Danica Popovic, Cedomir Čupić, Jove Bakic, the modern science cannot explain. Then when, for example, Zoran Zivkovic tells you about academic honesty and submits a bill on academic honesty, I think he also asked for a survey committee on academic integrity, and he's got the higher one in vain from school, and I've already said he's got a big break from school. Also, the law says this military research, scientific research work in the military. The law will regulate it by the Ministry of Defense. It's very interesting to me, because it has to do with the economy. So we're a small country. There's a Kennedy saying that says - an accident, but we have to say that only ready for war can we preserve peace. I didn't mean to quote Tito on purpose. I was quoting Kennedy. I think he was absolutely right. Since we are a developing country, I think we can base our economic development on a little bit of the military industry. First of all, we must, in my opinion, separate more from the growth of gross domestic product for science. Let's say, for the purchase of military equipment, if it's 4% growth, I'd donate one quarter, one percent, to the acquisition of new systems in defense, new weapons, tools, planes, tanks, drones, anti-aircraft systems, so all that's necessary to defend the country. We are a small country surrounded by great interests. I think we need scientific discoveries and scientific knowledge to base on the acquired systems and to improve them, to our military industry, to first our science, to our research, to make our scientific discoveries related to the promotion of weapons, techniques, the protection of the people. We're a small country with a small population to sacrifice people. I want us to get the most modern technique, design it, improve it, and if we need to sacrifice the technique, not the people. I wouldn't want it to come to war, I'm not American. I don't want us to use scientific discoveries as criminals, wave some axe we invented and wave like criminals. That's what Americans do, there's no need for me to do it. I didn't drop an atomic bomb, I didn't destroy one race of people, Indians, I didn't drop an atomic bomb, I don't want to return the poor uranium to the Americans, in the same packaging where they did it to us. So I have no intention of giving them back neither the poor uranium nor the enriched, to understand each other, nor the packaging in which they sent it to us, but we have to have research for military purposes, we have to strengthen our military industry, through which we can strengthen the economy. I'm not for us to use these weapons exclusively, we to use them for God's sake. We should have enough plows and enough swords, so that what plow makes the sword can defend. But first of all, I'm about to sell to those who want to war, we sell them that weapon, and we only fight for God's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55929	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. With no more reports, Minister Mladen Sarcevic spoke. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55930	Thank you, Chairman. I won't be long. I think that today was a very nice discussion to a huge extent and that people who deal with both science and education understood what was the point of today's day, the law and what came out of this. What is important and what my colleagues in the SRS asked, I was able to tell my colleague, Natashi Jovanovic, that the Institute of Contemporary History and that the new director, Pedja Markovic, has already started a story on a project related to The Hague tribunal, so that people listen to us and are already doing things about it. Science is certainly the best part of not only Serbian society, I suppose in other social environments, in other countries, because it's something that connects people. You'll find it hard to find any other category in any human relationship, any communication and any society, as a science that absolutely connects people and science has no limits, and that's living truth. So, I've said it many times, and now, I'm going to say that science is certainly the most qualitative part of Serbian society, and it's time for us to repay ourselves, to make good laws, to make a good environment, and not to repeat what we said from the opening statement, and so many here, just for a short time, how much of this power has managed to build, how much things are done now, that it's one true renaissance of science. If this took a little longer, it took us just to get to the final consensus. We're also doing a law on funding higher education which is one tough law, but we've been doing it for a long time. We want it to last long and that people don't have problems and differences. Many things were unfinished, left behind, and many false criticisms. The ministry I chair is made up of very high-quality people who love their country, who have accepted this job from the best human and patriotic intentions. That's why we look like a team, so when we talk about any level of education, about investments, student standard, about dual models, about preschool, we do everything the same way. There is no part of the system of education, science and technological development that has been neglected. So, there's a new curricula and a program, or what they say is preschool curricula, one of the three best, says Unicef. A new EIB loan is being made for pre-school infrastructure, raising capacity levels and involving children, in order to give early literacy a better result. The first year of learning and teaching ends in the reformed plan and programme of the first, fifth and first classes of high school. There's been a high school reform. So for gifted students we've done IT departments, I think it's going to be 58, which is a record and under very hard conditions, there's nothing easy at all, everything has to be done as hard as possible, serious preparation. This year, we released it for the gifted chemistry and biology, counting on children who will go to many universities not only biological, chemical, molecular biology or medicine, entire branches, veterinary and pharmaceuticals, technology, that these two subjects matter to them. The response was three times higher. So none of the topics were missed. High schools have had one real renaissance, and you'll hear about it. Science has worked patiently, and it's very important for me to have all this science fund stuff work out perfectly. Excellent choice of executive directors who worked hard, hard and hard at work in the short term. I can't help but mention the director of the Scientific Technology Park in Belgrade, Mrs. Danilovic, who did this immaculately, who helps other cities and centres and governments with a good synergy between people working at universities, who work in scientific institutions and their home ministry. We even got a round of applause at the Belgrade University Senate, which seems to have never happened, but we don't talk fairy tales, I think people see us as real associates. Let us look alone at the opinion of the European Commission, which has recently been said, which everyone here has slept so well, Chapters 25 and 26 of science and education, the best score, with the highest marks. The realization of reforms since we led the ministry has been raised to 95%. So these are the results that no one can even push under the carpet or spit, and this is just the beginning, because the second and sixth elementary, second high school, and all of this has to be designed and the reforms are slow, you just have to know, until the whole cycle passes, you haven't seen what you've done. We have defined plans and programmes at the National Educational Council and for the third and seventh and third high schools. We have a defined graduation project, which has been in drawers since 2012. So we've been doing it for 2.5 years now, it's gonna be 2021, when the kids who signed in two years ago get the right to take it. We are completely changing the paradigm of learning and teaching, going towards what MP Risticevic says, that knowledge is going on, to be recognized. And that's an important difference from what's been learned so far. Already now, the people in the education that used to relax have intensive training during the summer, 22,000 people, teachers are further trained to change teaching, for digital training. We're taking intensive training parallel, because it's going to 10,000 digital classrooms. What we have done in the digital sector through primary schools, mandatory information, gifted for high school at technical schools is a model that requires both the British Council and UNICEF and the European Commission to help other countries. We have become mentors here, which for our public may be unusual. What is very important, someone mentioned that some Tesla or Milankovic or Pupin will not be created so easily, by entering CERN we have signed another agreement, which is that all our physics teachers are going there to train their knowledge to be, much more serious, stronger, here in Serbia, doing their work with a young generation creating potential scientists of that profile. So there's really still a lot to do, but at least the system is put on its feet, it's designed, it's still full of different holes and problems, it doesn't hide it, but believe me in two and a half years it couldn't have gone any faster. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-25-0.u55931	Dear Mr. Minister, Sarčević, thank you for your participation in the work, as well as for the MPs. We finish work today and continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
