ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-10-1.u57739	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 91 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 141 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. We move to a decision on the motions for decisions referred to in points 1 to 8 of the sitting agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, as a whole. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 140 against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Modern Serb Party, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party, in general. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 140, against – three, abstention – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, who filed with the State's major prosecutors on June 14th of this year, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We're going to vote on the election of a deputy public prosecutor. Before we move on to the vote, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure: "In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials referred to in Article 1, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. We decide on a proposal to elect each of the contested candidates individually, and a proposal to elect non-contested candidates is decided in general by a public vote. “ In line with these provisions, I would like to put to the vote the motion to elect Jelena Srdanovic, the prosecutor's assistant in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one has joined the vote and one vote against. I find that Jelena Srdanovic has not been selected as the one suggested on the list. I remind you that on July 9th of this year, the State's Major Prosecutors informed the National Assembly that Mirjana Veljkovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Justice in Tristenik, for personal reasons, gave up her candidacy for deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor, which was filed by the State's major prosecutors, without the disputed candidate and candidate who withdrew the candidacy, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one with abstention – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision in general without these two candidates. I am now putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. It's been a proposal since June 13th this year. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one with abstention – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which has submitted the High Council of the judiciary since 4 June of this year, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one with abstention – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on your behalf, the chosen holders of judicial functions in the election and wish them a lot of success in the work. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate Mersihi Markovic, on behalf of the MPs and on his behalf, on the election of a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. We still have a few injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 9 July 2019, at 16:50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 198(2). Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to decide that. I forgot to give up on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
