ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51951	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Djordje Milicevic, Zarko Obradovic, Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 11 of the agenda according to the order of application for order. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the sittings of Minister Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management with Associates. We're continuing to work on the list of persons registered for discussion. The word has been made by a fellow MP, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also started this spring session against business and, for the sake of the public, to remind myself that today we are discussing eleven points of the agenda of the Central Register of Population, through several laws in the field of agriculture, tourism, hospitality until the election of the Secretary-General. I really don't know a legal mind that could fit this into the regulations of the Rules of Procedure regarding the merger of debate. As for this Law on the Central Population Register, that is, the draft law yesterday, the minister spoke best of all about the law. The Minister's intentions may be really good, but this law doesn't give us the results the minister promised yesterday, which he claimed would be. We already have in several cases, this is a small depression, due to a change in methodology, due to new methodologies very strange data in Serbia. One refers to the number of Serbian residents, this is what Vojislav Seselj told you yesterday, but because of this new methodology we have and, as Ana Brnabic said, incorrectly, let's say, the average wage data, he says -- it's not what the new methodology said, but it's much more. I don't know what methodology that is. The number of unemployed also does not correspond to the right state because of this new methodology. You keep checking us out, making some lists. You have no idea how much data I don't know how many places, and we don't really have the right information about what a serious state should have at any time. Yesterday, Minister, you said that it was never a better Unique Election List and it certainly has something to do with this Bill proposal, because it is unacceptable and unacceptable for us that the data that will be entered into this law, that is, this register is not directly linked to the Single Election List. You said the voter list was transparent. Neither one is true. Ana Brnabic, whose exposés were exclusively related to the announcement of Serbia's digitisation and every appearance of it and all of you ministers is digitisation, so digitalisation, so we certainly have nothing against it, but what kind of digitisation, what progress and success it is if Ana Brnabic says that from the moment, she says, we have achieved this, writing down the facts of death until the moment of writing that data into the Single Election List, it takes 24 hours. Is it possible that there is no program that can click on one click when the fact of death is recorded that it is automatically on the list? Do you know, and you know for sure, what does a 24-hour term mean in the election process? That's where everything counts for lessons. How many people, theoretically, can die from the moment of final voter's conclusion until the election is held? We now believe it will not be abused. Yes, that's why you left that 24-hour deadline, not because technically it's not possible to perform. How are your polling lists transparent, Minister? He's not transparent. It is true that I can check in the Single Election List based on my home number whether I am listed, whether I am listed in the right address, in the right polling place, etc. But how can I make sure you're listed? Such transparency must be achieved. How can I make sure the neighbor or relative I know died that he's still listed or that he's no longer registered? You're hiding behind the protection of personality data. It was Rodoljub Šabić who made some name out of, my God, there must be no single birth number anywhere, which is of course not true. What harm would I suffer if I now dictated my home number for everyone watching this congregation to hear? I don't want any. What can happen? Nothing. A unique home number, if the parties collect safe votes, take that information publicly on the street. If signatures are collected for a petition, the people who organize it take the data a unique parent number without any consequences. If the bill comes, say, 15, 20,000 people propose a law, someone organizes the collection of these signatures, I, as a member of the board, every MP here who is not a member of the board, takes this bill nicely, and says I'm very interested in who signed it, and 30, 20,000 parent numbers that are registered there, and they have to be entered, otherwise it can't be determined whether these are relevant signatures. And what's going on? Nothing. Is there any consequence of me seeing his birth certificate? There isn't. We're collecting signatures to support some election list. It has to provide every list that goes to the election of at least 10,000 signatures, and for each signature, we have to have a home number. What's so controversial about that? Nothing. On the other hand, you have introduced and introduced still that any rustling in the Serbian state can meet and legitimize Serbia, each. The police, it's okay. It's not a dispute. In urban transport comes that controller, someone doesn't have a map, there's a way to convince him to buy a ticket to transport, but not as you from the government have announced that every employer has to buy GSP stamps, he doesn't have to, this is also a crackdown, but, for the sake of the public, the employer is legally required to provide transport costs for his employee, and the employee is obliged to come to work. But no one can ask him how he spent that money, did he come by bicycle or rode on a horse or came on foot or came in his car, etc. So don't do that anymore. So, this controller can take your ID card to legitimize you, a communal officer can legislate you, an inspector who does any kind of inspection any citizen of Serbia can legislate, seek. So don't hide behind a single mother number. The unique home number used, I repeat, make some codes, do something, the only way you can say that a transparent electorate is a unique list and that it really fits the real state is that anyone who's interested can... You know who's now on the Single Election List? Just activists from the government. You know, I've seen it myself, you all know, go an activist, under a unique voter list, copy, go door to door, and he knows who's within 24 hours, the one that Anna says you've achieved to sign in. The fact of death, he knows who died, so he'll go to the polls instead, and he knows who's not in Serbia. Mr. Nedimovic, don't nod. He knows who left Serbia and who is not there on election day, because in this law you did not predict that it is known at all times and it is a source of great abuse. You, Mr. Nedimovic, said yourself, are changing the Deputy Prime Minister here, which doesn't make much sense to me. You know, the Deputy Prime Minister could change you, something's not working the other way around, but now that Rasim's moved into this alliance, maybe you are, too, who knows. Let me ask you, since Rasim Ljajic has authorized you to speak on his behalf of the bill. I don't mind, this was just a little joke, you're the minister, I guess behind this is the government, not Rasim Ljajic himself. But my question is did he tell you why he's not in the congregation these days? Is it by any chance, since we heard that his coalition partner Sulejman Ugljanin was discussing the transition to this Alliance for Serbia, that he might not be busy too? Did you know that they are coalition partners in the national council of Bosniaks? You know. You know he was there to support that they were in the common stands. You know. Or maybe he told you he was busy because he had to control the repacking and transfer of the goods to Meh's junk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51953	The word has been made by Minister Branko Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51954	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Because of the depression and these things that were said yesterday and today, I just have to say that there are procedures that are generally known and recognized to you, I'm convinced, even better as an excellent lawyer. So, since the entry of the fact of death into the death book of the deceased is automatically sent, so immediately, a report in the Register of a single electoral list and then a reference that is there without delay brings a solution to the erasure. Of course there must be an administrative act, because it is an act on which to declare a complaint because sometimes there is, unfortunately, mistakes. It's like the state and the government always interested in protecting the citizens if there's any mistakes. This also applies to the change of any data when you make enrolment, so that's the law, these are facts that you all know well. As far as the Single Election List is concerned, of course I claim it's never been more up-to-date, which doesn't mean it won't be. This is exactly the kind of system that connects first with the death certificate, since the beginning of next week with the wedding home book will further speed up the update of the Single Election List. The protection of personality data is also standardized and that is why you can't see whether your neighbour or not is in the voter's list, whether he votes, where he votes, etc., but any citizen or citizen of Serbia can be 365 days, 24 hours on the Ministry's site to enter his unique home number to determine whether he is listed in the voter's list and where he votes. I don't see a way, given the other legislation, that it's so possible to make abuses, especially now that we're working on the urgency of the Single Election List and that sometimes we steal a mistake, so now we're talking hypothetically... If we speak hypothetically, each year in Serbia, it dies, if I'm not mistaken, between 40,000 and 45 thousand people. You know when the Single Election List is concluded before the election and even if you have someone who in the meantime and the interval don't let God die, certainly the election board has representatives of all relevant voters who can wash out whether there has been an abuse or not. If, God forbid, there is an abuse, you know for a fact that this member of the electoral committee has the right not to sign the record. Therefore, no drama should be made, as my colleague Nedimovic spoke about GMOs yesterday and raising tensions, I think we are just going towards solving these problems that exist everywhere in the world, not just with us, and I don't think what has been said to a large extent, or at least dominantly, is standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51955	The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, I must give my answer to the People's Parliament, I think that's the order and that's the way it should be. Not entering these violations at the end of the speech, the Deputy Prime Minister, who is also the minister of trade, is currently at a joint meeting of the Serbian-Morocco Mixed Committee in Morocco. As far as I know, it's scheduled from earlier and it's the only thing that's true and what I know. If you have any other knowledge, share them with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51957	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51958	Mr. Rose, here, I'll pay you back a compliment. You're a good lawyer, too. Now what you've tried to explain. Yeah, yeah, I know you're not a lawyer, but you're like a good lawyer trying to wrap it up so nicely that someone who's not a lawyer thinks you said the right things, it's not true. You say 24 hours after entering the fact of death it is necessary for that officer in a municipality in charge of the voter's list to enter that information. I'm asking you, Ministers, in which municipality is employed on the ballot, say, weekends, and what happens if someone dies on Friday. He doesn't come to work until Monday, provided he doesn't drink coffee right away, that bitch who died, so you don't respect that deadline. It's no big deal, we're just telling the facts, and you know that it is, and you know that the activists of the ruling party wear under the mouse of the voter list, they wouldn't wear them if they didn't have the exact information that they were going to, not to draw their voters, we don't have anything against it, that's what all activists should do, but they're going to pull out to check again whether they really didn't come back from Vienna, so he's going to vote for him. Don't just ask me where he got his ID? You know, how many votes are voted without ID cards. Mr. Arsic, don't turn your head, I'm telling the whole truth, and you know it. As far as I'm concerned, don't, please, this Personal Data Protection Act, so you're breaking the Constitution, I thought I didn't tell anyone in person, this law is changing, so please coordinate it that it's possible to make a transparent voter list, just that much, and you Mr. Nedimovic, I'm shocked. You say you don't want to talk about some junk out there. Well, Minister of Agriculture, do you know what Meh's junk is? It is a place near Tutina on the border towards Montenegro, where Rasim regularly repacks goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51959	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51960	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today's presentation, and I will focus on proposals from the Ministry of Agriculture, which certainly deserve attention, but I just want to point out a few things, because our farmers certainly deserve to know what the bill is about. First of all, we need to know that two-thirds of the EU's rules apply to agriculture, food safety and public health. For us above all, Chapter 11 relating to agricultural policy and agrarian development is of particular importance to us and Chapter 28 relating to consumer protection and public health. In this respect, it is always important to take seriously the amendments and additions to the legislation relating to the area of agriculture, because, as we know, the EU accession process is long and complex, and somewhere in the end, it will also depend on placing our agricultural products on foreign markets. What's important to our farmers is certainly IPARD funds. I think there's a lot to talk about, and what I'm going to say is that during this year, two public calls will be made for IPARD funds. I always kind of touch local self-government, and I also want to say that the city of Nis is implementing measures and programmes in the field of agriculture. There are important measures and incentives that are being carried out in our home at the local. I will refer to 2018 in Nis more than 160 farmers received subsidies that can be used for the purchase of machinery, for the purchase of equipment, for the raising of plastics, for the purchase of livestock, for the construction of buildings in 2018, these funds increased by 10% compared to 2017. Otherwise, these incentives account for up to 60% of investments. What I would particularly point out is a new measure called supporting young people in rural areas where the subsidy is even up to 75% and what it certainly says is that it is, that young people in the country are provided with survival in the country and a better life. These measures at the place, but also co-operation and assistance from the Ministry of Agriculture, are very important to us, if we consider that there are more than 70 villages in the territory of the town of Nis. In the end, I would especially praise the measures relating to women, as holders of agricultural land, and the ministry's ranking demands gave women five points more. In this process of the Ministry of Agriculture, you can see the difference between this government, which in a responsible and serious way, exercises power and those who walk, who boycott this session and who were in power until 2012. We help women, strengthen them and implement the measures, we bring programmes regarding better social economic status for women. What they do, they insult them and call them ugly names, even physically hurt them or belittle them. And it's not a problem in the protests, if they're calm, but if journalists get hurt, if politicians are insulted, if employees who clean the city while Protestants are walking away from them, so they don't have to be bullied, if there's fear and confusion, if these protests send a message of violence and hatred, if it's even more than an obvious plan, that they want to implement, to get power on the street instead of elections, then it's certainly not for our country. A scenario in which someone would rekindle this high home of the National Assembly that would eventually be lynched by SNS MPs or the ruling coalition will not happen. I want to tell citizens from this place that we will continue to work, because only by quality work can we fight in the right way, that Serbia is a country that is developed and recognised in the world, not a country that will be in anarchy and which they want, just those who boycott this session and just those who walk the streets of our cities. That's why I'm going to support the laws that are before us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51961	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51962	Mr. Arsic, gentlemen of the Ministers, I'm going to potentiate this tourism law in my discussion, because you've united the debate, so many points of the agenda, and you've combined the incompatible, as my colleague said, and indeed nine minutes of how much I'm going to talk about it is a little bit that all the problems we have in this strategic economic branch I'm counting. The law that you are passing under the EU directive, on the threshold of the new tourist season, is in fact just an excuse for a full debacle in this area, a major fraud by Serbian citizens who are under the patronage Rasim Ljajic, who has fled now to Morocco, will go to Qatar tomorrow, because he is trading in real estate, in Sochi he has built large buildings, he deals with his business. So, problems are so piled up, Mr. Nedimovic, Mr. Ruzic, it is amazing that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not first replace the unfortunate Ljajic, and only then came out of sight of this whole drug dealer, or drug lord's affair. But I will start from what is important to all people who work in the field of tourism, who listen to many valuable people all over Serbia, for the leaders of many tourist organisations who make the most of their contribution, their experience, their knowledge to promote this tourist destination, to bring as many tourists as possible, without once the country's great help. We have a lot of bright examples here, so I don't want to leave out anything, and so I don't want to list and I'm a lot of them myself, and I'm professionally and I hear myself and I'm cooperating, and they've given me their remarks on this tourism law, and that's why I'm going to potential a few things. First of all, if Rasim Ljajic comes back at all, Mr. Nedimovic, it is scandalous that he is a member of 61. The draft law prescribes such powers. Do you really think as a minister, a family man, a potential traveler, here is Mr. Ruzic who likes to travel, and he's been through a lot in life, that in five months, when he's going to be in the middle of a tourist season, that and such minister to solve the issue of ranking over 500 travel agencies, as you said to Mr. Nedimovic, as proposed here in the law, based on his authority in certain categories A, B, C, let's say those who deal with the organized journey and those who don't deal with organised travel, that he determines how high the deposits will be, that he determines who are able to do so. It is incredible and impossible because it is precisely him responsible that the tourist inspection is not that large Serbian agency, as mentioned yesterday in Fly Fly, SAB, so you have forgotten United Travel of that Egyptian who came here, of course, by law registered his agency, picked up money and then returned to Egypt. So these are all frauds for which Rasim Ljajic is personally responsible as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia, because you were supposed to immediately deprive all these people. This job and this job won't be able to be done because it's late. By the start of the tourist season, the YUTA tourism agency association will also be unable to disclose on its site what agencies are supposed to do. When we start talking about amendments, colleagues will propose concrete solutions to incentives in tourism. You will see that the jewels of Serbian tourism fail, that there is no investment where there is to be, that there is no high degree of protection regarding national parks, protected areas and that you spend a lot of money on a variety of nonsense, and where it can be returned, because it is no secret that a single dinar or euro invested in tourism is triple-returned by smart distribution, good marketing and good staff, which, of course, you do not have while such a man is at the head of the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51963	Thank you. The word is from a fellow MP, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51964	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, as we have heard from Minister Nedimovic, have done a lot of things in this ministry, and by that I mean the results of the work, starting with the competitions to mechanise and pay off the funds from the IPARD programme, through the export of our products abroad. It started with exports of beef to Turkey, and since the quota that was originally allocated to us was met followed by an extension of the quota. Also, exports of wheat to Egypt and conquering such a large market will result in a significant increase from 26 million dollars to over 100 million dollars. Japan's interest in raspberries and blueberries is also very important. Soon we will know more details after visiting Japan's delegation to western Serbia. These are all the results of this ministry's serious work and should certainly be presented here in this home. As regards the amendment and addition of the Food Safety Act, it is positive that the division of competences over official controls in retail transport will be exercised, and it is particularly important to create a legal basis for the work of the future national reference laboratories for the safety of food and the examination of the quality of milk, since the purchase of most of the laboratory equipment has been carried out. It is very important that we know that what we feed on is safe and that it meets the standards that are prescribed. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant Health after adoption will establish supervision in production, import and export, and therefore an operational and efficient phytosanitary system. So, in short, something about these laws from the Ministry of Agriculture, I'm going to leave some time for my colleagues. I wish you ministers a successful implementation of these acts and even more successful work results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51965	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Milorad Mircic: How much time do I have? You have 12 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very interesting that the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture which is essentially, as explained by the Minister, is said to adapt to European standards, more specifically to the opening of Chapter 12, something that chronologically can be viewed in the past 20 years simply can be reduced under the growing and greater technological dependence of Serbia than so-called. The European Union. When it comes to financial dependence, then it is quite clear that we were close or we are still close to that financial slavery or debt slavery, as it is said in a colloquial manner. When it comes to technological dependence, it dates back to the earlier period, but has been intensively present since 5 October 2000. I remind you only of some facts when after the Petoctobar Revolution that deposit came and took up office in Serbia, they convinced us that we must accept European standards. When it comes to the economy, they completely destroyed all the factories, and when it comes to agriculture they systematically began to destroy, not only by selling out land and property, but by starting to shut down all the factories that were involved in the production of the preparations or what was needed for agriculture. One of the characteristic examples was the production of artificial fertilizer. You remember how in turn the factories started to close, all with the explanation that it was dirty technology, that it was no longer worth producing artificial organic, inorganic-origin fertilizer has nothing to do with it, all of which is much cheaper when it is imported and, after all, an outdated technology of production, in this case artificial fertilizer is an additional argument they used, because the EU has modern technology. And what happened? Here, these days is the most powerful last plant of artificial fertilizer, the so-called "Azotara Panchevo" closes. What's the consequence? As a result, gentlemen, we are no longer independent as a state, or sovereign as a Government to determine what price, and what price agricultural products will be. If someone tells you what the price of imported repromated preparations is, then it is also reflected on the final product. It's something that's symptomatic, that we understand each other is not just about Serbia, it's about all the countries of the former Socialist bloc. What came with this wave or the flood of crime on October 05th is that not only production is being destroyed when it comes to preparations and artificial fertilisers, but also seed goods. Why? Because Serbia has been known for its institutes to develop its own technology in seed production. The story and the explanation began that we cannot perform in such a strong competition on the world market, that what the institute does, the example works in Zemun and Novi Sad, that there are much cheaper seeds and that cheaper seeds can be profited more. In doing so, she completely forgot the fact that the dominant role in the matter of seed goods had Serbia inherited from the former Yugoslavia in the former republics of the Soviet Union. It is a huge market, and when it happens to be asked by the authorities at the time – how is it that we give up such a large market like Russia, such as the former republics of the Soviet Union? Then they said it doesn't matter. We will continue to export to that market in technological cooperation with foreign producers. It's a solution to this whole rebus, coming out of this whole galamatias, called – a new technological process that is being applied in Serbia. Foreign producers started to produce in Serbia and export to the former Soviet state market based on licenses because Serbia has very favourable relations especially in the area of trade with the Russian Federation and with many republics of the Soviet Union. Thus, an additional state such as Serbia is enslaved. What's the main theme and what's the goal of that so-called. Chapter 12, which needs to be opened, is food safety. We here need to pass laws that fit European standards. With these laws, we need to ensure greater security of food for plant and animal and other origins, which we will consume, which we will export. Imagine what is predicted in these amendments and amendments to the law? This is the first time a minister and one ministry have admitted that, in fact, among the ranks, the EU is a great error, that it is a fog and that we should get out of this delusion and that we no longer believe in that fog. Only the ministry here proposes that the production of plant protection products continue to be represented when it comes to the domestic sector until the EU's entry. Earlier, as the minister said in his explanation, this was meant to move on to EU standards and such laws are adopted either on the basis of the visibility of individual so-called. Zorki, who were Prime Ministers and various ministers, who calculatedly predicted that we would join the EU in 2007, and then in 2013, etc. For the first time, one ministry comes out and says – all of these are delusions, we have to make sure that we preserve existing capacities in the production of protective funds, and about Europe, like that series of Gjekna – when, it is not known and it is very important and important. Why it is important and important for the ministry to pay attention to something that is very important and important in the diet of the Serbian population, which is meat processing that is produced in many cases by importing meat from abroad, meat from other countries' stocks. For years, this meat from the stock market has been stored in the freezers for decades, in certain areas that serve it, and then imports into Serbia mean that the thermal and mechanical meat is processed, to turn it into meat processing, such as sausages, such as salami, as the unfortunate said, Mortadela to that president of Italy, etc. It's always said that food is safe. Yes, it is formally. Why? Because this thermal treatment is something that guarantees the correctness of this food, but all the properties that should have such a process, or such a product, are not present. Why aren't they present? Because by nature and logic of things, and also science explained this, the long standing at low temperatures takes away certain properties, loses its specific properties of meat found in the stock reserves. What's been done here? Almost nothing. Why? Because even here is said – they repromaterials, in this case meat used for processing and export, they are not subject to that so-called. the control of the National Laboratory shall not be subject to those controls as provided for in the other substances, or any other means to be imported. We are now in a situation that in fact everything that is waste, everything that is no longer used abroad, we import. Just remember that not long ago in Serbia there was a large amount of meat imported from Argentina, which is way above the age of us sitting here in this assembly, and then it is determined whether it is 50 or 60 years old, but let's get things serious. It's very dangerous. Why? Because two things, according to us Serbian radicals, are not very important here. First, time to limit the possibility of using meat and meat processing contained in the stock reserves. Not that this is "usable up", so we say -- not losing properties, can be consumed, but we simply have to determine that more than six months can't be used. Secondly, what is crucial is to introduce customs duties on imports of agricultural products. Without customs, we are an open market, and our agriculture is condemned, this impoverished and naked, to total ruin because we cannot be competitive with a pioneer in the production of seed goods, we cannot be competitive with meat producers and carnivores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51967	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51968	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first of all like to say a few words in the context of all previous exhibitions, which concern agriculture globally and concerning these legal proposals. There were a few words earlier in the incentive funds provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and I must say that they have now acquired conditions due to the sufficient amount of money, due to the sufficient capacity of the Agricultural Payments Authority, I mean in humans above all. I think this is very important for the public. You won't mind me taking this opportunity. By the end of March of the month, all requests submitted in 2018, all related to both machinery and genetics for one simple reason – because last year we had a much higher number of requirements than expected and that is good. This means that people go into the system, report their throats, that they want to get an incentive, and that's understandable and acceptable on one hand. On the other hand, I'd like to say that all the people who are getting the machinery this year will have the opportunity to apply for a refund of 50% of the purchase of that mechanism in April of the month. Why am I saying this? Because a lot of people are asking if it will be and when it will be, so here it is, since April of the month it will be a case and there will be no problems. There's enough money for everyone. To go back to these things that concern plant protection. It was very important to protect these 600 preparations, to keep them in the system, because some Law on plant protection products from 2009 predicted that everything from Serbia must cease to exist as such or to meet conditions that are unrealistic to meet in such a short period of time. We have now made it possible to join the EU by the time we enter the EU, and I think it is very important that this branch of the economy, which deals with plant protection, also exists. Our goal is the EU, but our first goal is to protect our Serbian products. The fact is that the biggest blow from Serbian agriculture was given by liberalising the market at the end of 2000, when all the barriers were lifted and the market was agriculturalally unprepared for blows from the side. It may have been justified in some other industries, but in agriculture, overnight, what was done in 2000 in December, I think it was catastrophic. It's only now that there are signs of recovery, and watch out, for 10, 12 years, it's been a complete mess on the market. I want to say one more thing about seed production, because it was also mentioned. Our institutes are one of the most prestigious institutes in the world. First of all, I mean NS seed and the Institute of Corn in Zemun Polje. Over 70 countries are the market where they place their products. If they are good for everyone in the world, of course they are even more good for us, and we will encourage and maintain it as such. The fact that someone planned it 15 years ago might have cut it through privatisation and through all these processes and bought it from their market and pushed it out, didn't work out for him, and that's good. I will remind you only that Serbia belongs to the world's leading countries by the production of wheat and corn production, by the amount of yield. And the fact is, in the last seven or eight years, there's been a drastic increase in yields per hectare. Sometimes people dreamed they had 10 tons per hectare of corn. Today these are real things and people even earn up to 15 tons per hectare where they have irigation systems. I think this whole theme of agriculture is good, which is what we're talking about, and that's how we push the public to think more and more about this and think about food. It all encourages and ends in our lives on food. Without it, there is no security of one country, for one simple reason, because in the future food and water will form the basic elements with which to manage and compete on the market. We are not a country that has oil, which has seas, which has huge amounts of gold, but we are a country that can deal with the most modern countries in the world with food and these final products.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51969	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51970	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in today's principle debate, I will primarily limit myself to amendments to the Food Safety Act. Food production and safety is a priority obligation for all of us, so these amendments and additions to the law improve the basic text, which is ultimately our primary task for us MPs. Food production requires factories, and employment factories themselves. These factories are looking for the development of a raw material base. It's mostly in the rural area. Thus goes the chain of development from the rural area and the rest in it. It is certain that the best factory in the agricultural areas of the factory that uses the orphanage from agriculture, because it also develops the environment, the village, the people, so that this country, I see, lately, our state, has made sure that such factories come to a place where good and intensive agricultural production is. Food serves primarily for human consumption, and as such it must be maximum correct. Food that is not produced in factories, but domestically, must also be safe, which has been resolved with these amendments and amendments to the law, so that such food is certified both in its place in transport and in sales. This also allows small rural households to develop and survive in the competition of large producers. A good example for this type of food production at home is certainly the Koceljeva Winter Festival, which takes place every year on the last weekend of September. Last year was the 10th annual Winter Festival, and according to the estimates of all participants, the festival of winter is a success. The Winter Festival has a large number of exhibitors, a large number of visitors, but also the organizer does not allow it to turn into something else, but rather a winter festival intended primarily for food and winter. That festival has its soul. Once you're on it, don't worry if you come back tomorrow or not. So my proposal, who wasn't, is to come and visit the Winter Festival in Koceljeva. Generally speaking, a lot of positive work has been done in agriculture, especially from the state level, or government, or ministry. Let's just say, I'm going to mention some things that may not have been sufficiently said here, such as, say, agricultural land in state property. First of all, there's a record in place. Secondly, this land is put into function, i.e. in the function of agricultural production, so that it is a serious shift for the state to think about its agricultural land in its own property. Opposite protection. What has been said in the past year, that it will start in automation, or automatic defence against the city, has already started to work on the ground, on the fields of Koceljeva and Western Serbia, already being done, so in the Mačvan County I expect it to be done and that it will be prepared for that kind of anti-urban protection for this year. Of course, it's not possible to do that in one year, but it's important that it's on its way and that we improve the anti-urban protection, although there's no hundred percent protection from the city. When everything that belongs to agriculture is summed up, we've already come to these desired 5% of the Republic's budget, so that's one serious shift in the amount of funding going to agriculture. What's fascinating to me, which is good, which is constantly moving conditions to get incentives in the direction that these incentives really go to agriculture and agricultural production. If these incentives can be used in something other than general consumption, personal consumption, etc., then such incentives are not good. If they are so limited and envisaged that they can only go to agricultural production, then they have a purpose and should continue to force them. I think it's done a lot, that there's probably a lot more to be done in that area, but the most important thing is that incentives coming from the state level go directly to agriculture and I think there's a serious step there. So much for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51971	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51972	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say a few things today about the Tourism Act. The tourism law was supposed to solve many of the problems that exist in this economic branch and be an incentive for the fastest development and very important economic branches that have seen significant growth in all developed countries, both Western Europe and Eastern Europe and around the world, after all. It represents a huge potential for the Serbian economy as well. Unfortunately, insufficiently exploited potential. In recent years, according to Eurostat data, tourism as a business branch has been the biggest growth of all business branches, and there is an increasing trend in money, which means that this tourism and domestic tourism laws should also have priority and that they are organised as best as possible and that as much as possible, foreign tourists are bringing into our country to increase the foreign inflow. What did this law not solve in a good way, in my opinion? First of all, he did not separate the prescriptions, so the law does not specifically provide for them, does not treat the reception tourist agencies that have the task and is essential to them to bring foreign tourists into Serbia. That's very important to us. In order for more foreign tourists to be in Serbia, they must invest in promoting the country and that these tourist agencies dealing with such tourism have special status, to be encouraged, to perform at fairs and to attract as many foreign tourists as possible to come to our country. I don't need to say how useful it is for the whole country, for the domestic hotelers, for the food producers, for the tour operators, for the carriers. So anyone who comes to Serbia will spend some money, which will benefit from a wide range of service providers in this activity. On the contrary, the current practice of the Ministry was such that the reception tourist organisations, even in the Encouraging Regulation, had no special treatment, so it was paradoxical that only four reception tourist agencies had been encouraged to work from subsidies, some minor 1,500 – 2,000 euros, which is so miserable that it was not worth talking about. Much more money those tourist agencies had to spend on Serbia's promotion at fairs, even paying the Serbian Tourist Organisation for the rent of the stand, instead of getting it for free. Another important thing that is predicted here and will create tectonic disturbances on the tourist market is that all tourist agencies will have to make certain deposits in the future, and the level of these deposits will be regulated by the famous rules which, unfortunately, there are dozens of places in this bill and that everything that is important is left to be resolved by rules or discreet law, i.e. the minister will set certain normative measures by his decision. I don't think the Minister and the Ministry should get too involved in the work of the agencies and thus delay their freedom and manner of organisation, such as, say, prescribing how an intermediate travel agency will need to pay funds to the travel organiser. Or, for example, that contracts with certain Turkish operators from abroad must also be in foreign language, i.e. English and Serbian. Well, imagine now that in every branch, in the pharmaceutical industry, in any other, they are required to have contracts in both language and language. What's that for? Why does the Ministry do that anyway? The ministry has an obligation to work more on Serbia's promotion, to create conditions for the reception tourist agencies to have a privileged position to bring foreign tourists and to exempt them from deposits they have to pay to bring foreign tourists. (President: I thank you. ) If this tourist agency is an intermediary and co-operates with a foreign tourist agency that is guaranteed to travel, and is receptive to guarantee... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51973	Thanks, buddy. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51974	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, agriculture is Serbia's strategic job. Accordingly, in January 2019, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Regulation on the distribution of incentives in agriculture and rural development for 2019, and the 25 February amendment of this Regulation, which created the conditions to increase the amount to 5,200 dinar per hectare for the basic incentives for plant production. This Regulation for 2019 provides for direct payments, payments for rural development measures, credit support, specific incentives in agriculture, IPARD incentives, and commitments from the previous period. I would also refer to the programme to support the implementation of the measures of equal regional development through the participation of the state in economic, financial incentives, agricultural and agricultural cooperatives in 2018, so that it is on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially in Jablaničko, Nisavska, Toplic, Pirotski and Pcinjska administrative district, as well as in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. The programme aims to systematically improve the business of cooperatives, as well as the quality of life in rural areas through a more balanced distribution of income and an increase in economic opportunities as part of balanced regional development. Realisation of the programme improves the cooperative system and increases competitiveness, but also covers the aspect of social and social change, which are a significant business and a significant actor. The development of its own production and processing capacity of cooperatives in the processing of milk and meat, fruits and vegetables, industrial plants, the conditory industry and the like is a prerequisite that would allow it to be equally integrated into the market for final food products. From the territory of the town of Leskovci to a public competition application with proper documentation delivered nine agricultural and agricultural cooperatives. According to the programme, total grants for four cooperatives in the territory of the city of Leskovci for 2018 amount to 36,339,421 dinar. Between 2013 and 2014, 66 million dinars of donor funds were invested in the territory of the town of Leskovec through a project of field electrification, with the participation of owners on a 10% plot. This project built over 37km of power grids on a surface of 130 hectares and 220 land-uses, which consist of three water-user associations, covering five villages, resulting in the power supply of electricity irrigation pumps, which showed its value and cost-effectiveness in the first year of use. The project was implemented in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the World Bank for Economic Development. The town of Leskovac continued with the preparation of new project and technical documentation for populated towns of Vinarce, Radonjica, Charlince, Donji Bunibrod and Donji Stoča. The project will be organised in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management and the Republic Water Directorate, for which 100 million dinars have been allocated. With this project, the town of Leskovac would permanently solve irrigation problems. The town of Leskovac has achieved very important projects in the period from 2014 to 2017, with the financial assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, where the ministry participated up to 70% of the value of the projects. First, the restoration of Atari roads. This project, in 2014, 2015 and 2016, renovated 140 kilometers of atar roads and about 70 catastrian municipalities. The project was worth 50 million dinars every three years. The Ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50% of the project value, and in 2016 with 47% of the project value. The second project is a land-commassion project. This project covers about 1,100 hectares in three populated places. In 2017, in the catastrian municipalities of Gornja and Donja Stoča started with a massage on the surface of 560.3 hectares. The deadline for completion of the works is 30 June 2019. In addition to these two projects, the town of Leskovac organised a visit to the International Agricultural Fair in Novi Sad in 2018 and this fair was visited by about 300 agricultural producers from the territory of the city. By the beginning of the anti-urban season, 80 anti-building missiles were provided with a cost of three million dinars. In the period from 2013 to 2018, the city of Leskovac, through the Budget Fund for the Development of Agriculture, opened competitions for the allocation of incentive funds. Agricultural producers who invested in livestock equipment, fruit growing, beekeeping, those who raised new orchards, bought heifers, paid incentives of 33% to 50% of the value of the account. The fact is that our agricultural producers have been informed in good time, and this suggests that more than 4,500 agricultural producers have submitted a request for incentives in the period from 2013 to 2018. In addition, from 2013 to 2018, 150 million dinars were allocated from the city register of Leskovci for the promotion in agricultural production. The 2019 programme envisions the launch of competitions for the allocation of incentive funds. These incentives are important for our farmers and serve to further improve agricultural production. Dear Ministers, as a member of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and as a graduate agricultural engineer for the protection of plants and foodstuffs, you have full support for your work, your ministry. In voting day, I will support the proposals of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51975	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, I thank the MPs who have supported the proposals in previous exhibitions both legally and those concerning amendments and the addition of the law. I want to say one thing, there were words just now, not to be left unsaid, about this famous story, about the import of pig meat, where there are different arches in the EU compared to Serbia and how we import this meat that has already expired or has already expired. Maybe someone looked at themselves in the mirror for it, I don't mean where you're turning, but I've been thinking about those since 2007, eighth, ninth, year. I mean those who were there in the first decade after 2000 allowed it. For the past two years, it has been in force for a rule that says – six months since the freezing or slaughtering of pigmeat cannot be the subject of imports into Serbia. We control it at the border, veterinary inspection, customs, and it's a holy letter. A completely uniform game rules with a complete environment and the EU. For beef, it's even more rigorous. I think this is very important to say, because it's like yesterday's story about GMOs. Trying to make some cheap points on stories that might have been five years ago. What happened five years ago went the way they did. What would a colleague on the right say, no, but come on. I want to say one more thing, and it's about the Tourism Act, about the exposure that was about ten, fifteen minutes ago, just the regulation that deals with the incentive to drag tourists in is exactly what you were talking about. Through it, the whole issue is fully incorporated, and the law protects these recipes. There's no problem. So there's an accent on those who are going to bring in foreign tourists, which are actually domestic organizations that should be dragged in. I think a colleague who just talked about tourism said that very nicely. There used to be this sentiment - one invested dinar, the euro, the dollar, whatever you want, (Verica Radeta: Which colleague? I'll find myself. What kind of man? I don’t know, I try to honor everyone and praise those words that are really good, for they serve all of us to write better suggestions. Today that factor is multiple and greater. It's just saying that what you're giving money to encourage, for bringing tourists in, it's worth a lot of money. I think we've had this problem since last year with travel agencies, and where people have been charging through guarantees. With one agency up to 70%, there were no more guaranteed funds, there were 300,000 euros in guarantees, but this changes. There's one thing we didn't talk about yesterday, and it's about organising a trip. You'll have to give a unique price for the offer. Let's go back to 2018, remember Mundial in Russia. They were some travel organizers who said- a trip to Mundial, Russia. You go to Mundial, but you don't have a paid ticket, and it all says when it's marked as if you went to Mundial. You did come to Mundial in Russia, but you don't have a ticket. Now this law will require a single offer, a single price, and there is no possibility of such abuse. Let's get back to this story about the rules. About making a rule that will determine how a license will be given, how many deposits and everything else there will be, so the minister himself won't do it. A working group of all actors who exist there, both travel organizers and those who enjoy services and then through a joint discussion, the Chamber of Commerce will come up with better solutions. You don't think the Minister is the Wizard of Oz so he can just write down what someone thinks he should. No, that's not how it works, and I think it's very important that all these entities participate in this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51977	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, who is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51978	Dear Mr. Minister, thank you for your clarification. I hope I can take this as a promise that the task force will take into account all these objections that are heard in the debate. It's very important that what I've focused on, so the law itself, does not make a difference between reception and ordinary agencies. Reception agencies, if they are travel agents, are treated the same as all other agencies, have to deposit, guarantee that deposit and insurance for the realisation of a specific journey, and already cooperate with a foreign agency that is guaranteed by all these travels, i.e. those services, which the Agency itself guarantees to the Agency with which it cooperates. What does this deposit serve, and what does it serve in front of domestic authorities when it is no guarantee of realisation, but must be guaranteed by a partner organisation? On the other hand, I hope and believe that when the level of that deposit is determined, it will take into account different types of travel, heights, etc., because it is not the point of the story that the tourism market is globalised and that we have five or ten tourism companies, and that the other 450 that cannot meet the big conditions, as far as the deposit is concerned, should fail. I think the point is that we should also support small tourist agencies, especially those that deal with micro-destinations. We do not have specialized travel agencies dealing only with Sokobanja, Sokobanja, Kopalnik or Zlatar, Palić, I do not know which beautiful pearls of our country. Therefore, such tourist agencies should encourage and give them the best possible conditions so that they can develop and have no major limits, that they have to pay huge deposits to be able to function. If they had a big twist, they would do it themselves without deposits, but if we choke them with deposits of 15, 20, 30,000 euros, many of them will fail.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51979	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51980	Mr. Minister, maybe the team will be working at the ministry that is still headed by Rasim Ljajic. We hope he won't be around anymore, but it's not about whether he's going to be doing it personally or some other minister, it's about looking at the overall situation. I don't agree with the predecessor at all on how to get that area in order so everyone doesn't do the job. When I started working, I didn't want to make a commercial here, on one day and day from the largest Turkish operators in our country, there were seven or eight travel organizers in Serbia. Isn't that right, Mr. Nestorovic? It was 20 years and over, and today there are 560 registered travel agencies and over 200 travel organizers. Not everyone can do that. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. This area must be arranged so that whoever assumes responsibility, that someone's children, that professional people, that any travellers, anywhere he sends, both in the country and in the world, has to deposit a large or high deposit, not on the basis of how they want to do so in the ministry, on the basis of the number of passengers, it varies, one year there will be more, two years less, but that the deposit is really very high and that one who deals with the organisation of travel and air transport and on further destinations has a minimum-million-euro insurance policy. Is that all right with you, Mr. Minister? Then there won't be any problem. These others, the question is, what are they going to do? You know, everyone can be found there, then they will be involved in promoting those I spoke about in the first part of my presentation, local tourist destinations such as Leskovac who is really still untapped potential, although there is Mr. Nestorović present all done and his successor, but they have no money to solve the question of Vucje, Dry Mountains etc. Those in eastern Serbia on the Old Mountain, villages that have not yet been used, in Surdulica, Vlassina and the whole area, and many such examples. Let me tell you, Mr. Nedimovic, since you're here, I really follow it closely every year, you and your ministry have done more for tourism, not to seem to praise you, but this Ljajico because you've been giving incentives for rural tourism and you recognize the value and how much money he can make and stay in... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51981	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51982	Just a few more words about tourism and previous exposure, five, six minutes ago. It is very important to distinguish travel organizers from intermediaries. The travel organizer is obliged to respond both by guarantee and deposit. The travel agent is something else. You're expecting, for example. If we bring guests from abroad, what has to be the answer of an intermediary than his country is responsible for the organizer of a journey, which is a stranger, we will not now be responsible for a stranger, they are responsible for that journey. I think it's illogical. It means practically that we could also be responsible for some country in Africa for their travel organizer. We still don't have that global capacity. I have to say one thing, which is very important, that within the existing incentives for tourism, there is also funding for infrastructure, for education, for innovation, and that is very important in creating full potential so that tomorrow we can do with these vouchers and all that we do through the Ministry of Agriculture about rural tourism to do in full capacity. Once again, we must eradicate these negative social phenomena that were present during the summer of 2018. One of the tools is these instruments provided by this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51983	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51984	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished agriculture ministers, Mr Ruzic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. Otherwise, I was elected to the Serbian Parliament in front of the USS, but on the SNS list. I have always talked about problems before, about development, about the chances of agricultural development, and about one minister, namely you, Mr. Nedimovic and Mr. Ruzic, and one and the other minister run ministries that are important for the development of agriculture, for the development of southeast Serbia, for the development of all areas in the territory of our country of Serbia. This set of laws that are here today at the meeting, I think that a number of these laws concern agriculture, we will have the possibility after the adoption of these laws that we have a lot of things to change. Otherwise, let's remember last year, January of the month when it was made possible, when the rules were made that it had for small producers dealing with dairy, meat production, small land, now through the programme and through the adoption of these laws we will have the opportunity to solve for those small producers who want to deal with... by producing, that they can participate, make jam, sweet and all that stuff. Otherwise, in previous years and now we've had a lot of problems developing in agriculture. In particular, I spoke several times at meetings, and I talked to you personally about some things that we need to change. It is my pleasure now to hear that during the next month we will have the opportunity to pay off all those residual subsidies for those of our people who applied in 2018. It's a big and good thing and that's how it's supposed to be. We have some backlogs in 2018, but we have to work this out. As far as these laws are concerned, they're being passed now. Now we've mentioned the possibility of putting a little wind in the back for these institutes. The Institute of NS seeds that produce really high quality seeds, which all our agricultural producers use, because if they use it in 70 countries around, why can't we promote it as much, provide support at the Novosad Institute for Agriculture and Vineyards and Zemun Fields, because it's all our home. That's what we should respect, appreciate, respect. Otherwise, agricultural production and what we are now doing in southeastern Serbia, and throughout Serbia, we must continue to act on those small holdings, on those small producers. We talked earlier about those rules that were passed on to marginal areas. Now I'm going to look back a little bit because that's what we were talking about both you and me and Mr. Minister earlier, determining those marginal areas. We need to figure out a different way to do it. It's not normal, it's not right that the land that lives, let's say where I'm from, it's the village of Pluzina, it has no right as a marginal area, and the village next to me, which, for a small percentage, might be higher, it uses those resources for marginal areas. I think it takes these rules together to find a way to change them and tomorrow the municipalities, here I come from Svrlig, as I just said, is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but the problems with us are, not only with us but also in Književec and Sokobanja and in the White Palanca and in Gadjin Han and in all municipalities in southeastern Serbia, the problems are similar with agriculture. We have a chance to develop agriculture, warehousing. It may not be the right place to work, but the warfare through these aids that we give to our people who want to provide oil is now getting bigger subsidies, but on the other hand, I think we need to put a little more emphasis on those small producers there. One more thing, as far as these other things are concerned, for your ministry, during your work, there is great support for young agricultural producers, is being given to support our women living in the country. As Mr Matic just said, Koceljeva is a place where there really is a nice Winter Fair. In Srlig, we also have the Winter Fair on October 15th in support of our women living in the country. Once again, I think agriculture is a chance to develop our Serbia, a chance to develop small communities, a chance to develop southeast Serbia is a chance to develop all of us. I came here yesterday, and today I came to the congregation with a wish. I did wear a collar, I put on a suit, but one thing for all of us who matters, we need to know, I'm not ashamed of it, when I walk through the streets of Belgrade now, I went through yesterday and today, someone smiles a little when they see me in a suit, and I'm wearing a collar. I don't think we should be ashamed of our persuasion because the persuasion has created our country for Serbia, the persuasion has defended our country for Serbia, the persuasion feeds our country to Serbia, and therefore our Serbian persuasion must be here in the Assembly and that tomorrow we all respect, value and respect. Your ministry, Mr. Minister Nedimovic, gives support to our agriculture. I think we need to bring things into line with the problems of our agricultural producers living in small areas, through the development of agriculture, through the development of tourism. Now we have a set of laws, a tourism law, a hotel law where rural tourism is given the opportunity. I can invite fellow MPs to come to southeastern Serbia, to come to Nis, to visit the beauty of the city of Nis, Sokobanje, to visit Nisska Banja. It's a really beautiful place that has the ability to be more and more serious about tourism, to tour and the rest, to come to Srlig, to belmužijad, to go to Leskovec for a barbecue. These are all manifestations where we promote our quality products, we also show people these products when they try to always come to us. The purpose is known for its healing herbs, for its turret lamb, for all the beauty in our country. Nature is really healthy and Svrljig municipality, as well as other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, have a chance to develop through the development and development of tourism, and we need to follow all this with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I think it's a great opportunity, I say again, and tourism. Whoever wants to get to Nis through Srlig, go to the Old Mountain. The beauty of our Old Mountain, hotel "Rizort", Mr. Karadzic as director, is indeed a potential that has so far been untapped. Once again, fellow MPs, let's support this story I'm talking about, that along with the Minister of Agriculture with the competent ministries...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51985	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51986	Dear Mr. Miletic, I am grateful to you for your words and I want to discuss one thing you mentioned to develop the discussion, if you please. It's first and foremost about what's called. marginal areas. The marginal areas for those not directly related to agriculture are those environments which, for their production conditions, have to allocate significantly more funds or materials in order to produce the same quantity of goods as elsewhere. Most of the time, people say laymen say they're places at higher altitudes, but it's not just that. As a result, the Encouragement Act provides that such areas have a higher percentage of support. If it's 50%, for example. for tractor vomit, they have the right to 65% vomiting. I agree fully with you, the current approach to creating marginal areas is not adequate and is not good. Why? We have one of the elements where the altitude was a determining condition for determining whether or not one village belonged to a marginal area. What's been happening to us? There was a curiosity happening to us, that for a village where the largest population lives below 500 metres above sea level, and the village centre above 500 metres above sea level it gets status, and the opposite situation, where the majority of the population lives above 500 meters, and with some strange circumstances, but these are villages, it is not Vojvodina, you will agree, so that everything is straight, but eastern Serbia, and there the village is stretched to 300-400 meters above sea level, that the village centre is 250 meters away and these people do not exercise the right to privileged status, and most of the production is done there. That, you'll agree, is not right. (Vojislav Seselj: And why didn't you make it right? Here, right now I want to talk about it. I'm glad you're here, so you can hear it. It's about what happened. The geographical information system, which, together with the Republic Geodetic Institute of the Ministry of Agriculture, is part of our ministry called the Department of Agriculture Land, implemented. The site and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic of Geodesy has a special application "Geosrbia" on which it can be seen. Every square of land in the state property can be seen, it can literally hide nothing. This geographical information system will serve us that we can target every land and land of the land to grant these statuses and such support, not with administrative concepts, such as the center of the village. I think we need to get past this, people, this is the 21st century, we can literally know everything that's going on, there are, thank God, satellites that cross Serbia and where we can know at any moment, at least about agriculture. I think this is very important, for one simple reason, because a greater number of agricultural holdings will be available this privilege of having a higher degree of support than elsewhere. I'll use, if I may, fellow Miletic, one of your exhibits to lean on one story about state agricultural land. For example, in 2011, if you allow me to take this out, in 2011, the state leased 175 thousand hectares of land. This is 104,000 hectares less than in 2018, and in 2011 70,000 hectares of the country in the Corps were more than in 2018. Then imagine the difference. And what exactly is this about? Someone didn't do their job. In 2018, we offered every square of state agricultural land to rent, because all units of local self-government, for the first time and some that never brought in, so all 145 brought in an annual programme, they all conducted the first round of agricultural land leased, and thank God, 130 of them and the second round. It's a big difference, compared to what they're saying seven, eight years ago, so it's all seen and it's all known and there's no story, there's facts, numbers, so much more serious approach to this problem, and this geographical information system will serve us and help us with all of this. Let's go one step further, so no one else can get state agricultural land, for example. by the right of a fairer hire for livestock, so that he can grow sugar tails and devastate his land. Someone will say, so pigs can eat tails and noodles. Maybe, but one percent. Someone like that can give, in principle, that's not what they're using. So there will be no possibility of abuse. We will literally see through thermal spectrum every plant that is on state agricultural land and then we will be able to force those who do this in an unfair way into passive status and triple charge them for rent. I don't want to scare anyone of this, but there's got to be order. He's got to go to a passive guy who plays the rules. In particular, there has been an act involving the breeding of pigs and chickens, and all cattlemen have been pushed into the same basket quite often. There is no farming of a country without livestock, or without livestock, whether milk or cattle farming, no agriculture. They're like small factories to you, each for itself, that pulls out food and throws out much bigger products and much more additional products. I will agree with counterpart Miletic, it is not good for people to be engaged in high altitude warfare in eastern Serbia. We therefore give resources to achieve some other types of agricultural production. Look, there's no way a picker can get in, let alone something else. Then you get into a situation where on the same unit of the surface you have huge diapazones in terms of yields and wheat and corn. That's not good. It must be known where to do what is done and therefore the reionisation of agricultural production is necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51987	The People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51988	Thank you. We agree on everything, by adding something to the decision-making system that will be marginal, which will be a different area. In particular, we have a large number of municipalities, not to repeat myself, where my municipality is, where there is a great problem of birth in a village where a child is born in a village, after 15 years of another child, and there are opportunities for people to deal with agriculture there. I think it would be necessary for criteria to be such – the number of children born, how old, the possibility, and the number of employees. Here, let's say, on some of the information that was this morning, but that's for sure, Srljig is the last municipality that has the smallest average earnings in Serbia. So, we have to give such municipalities the opportunity to have greater support as marginal. I mean not only the municipality from which I come, but also the other municipalities in the east, the southeast and all of Serbia, how many children were born, how many employment and how we can help these people. Healthy environment, tourism, agriculture, that's all the chances of developing such areas, but we have to put a bigger accent on these people, for people who live in these areas, for women and for children in the country who live there. It's very important, and that's why we need to classify the marginal area, the area that has a future, but we need to invest more in it. It's supposed to be an entire area, not now by GIS, whether it's altitude, but also how many children are born, how many people live there, and what capacities are there, whether it's livestock, vegetables, fruit growing, medicinal plants, rural tourism or everything else. Once again, Prime Minister, I will vote in favour of all these laws as People's MP and the President of the United Peasants' Party, because I think the laws are needed now to go faster and stronger in the coming period to make it better for agriculture. To solve problems, to pay off debts and normal higher detachments for the mountainous mountainous area, for our village and for our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51989	Thank you. The word has been given by fellow MP Milena Corilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51990	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, honourable MPs. The proposal for a law on the Central Population Register should achieve several important objectives. The most important is to provide a single centralised database, i.e. accurate and up-to-date data on the population of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a law on the Central Population Register is one of the foundations on which the process of creating and creating an electronic administration should be based. This is certainly not possible with existing legal regulations in this area that are years old. By pooling data in a more modern way, you get a better insight into the structure of the population. Of course, the possibility of more attention being paid to certain phenomena and movements within society. In the application of this law, citizens would be given the opportunity to ensure that the needs related to the exercise of certain rights, far faster and easier, are realised to provide the necessary documentation at less cost and waste of time. Costs would be reduced, total waste of time related to the collection of various data when applying for the right, the enforcement of citizens' obligations would be eliminated. The example works of exceptional importance is data from the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. There should certainly be an additional effort in terms of concrete integration and cross-referencing with the tax administration's data or records from the parent books. It is especially important to respect these activities. At that time, we would have easily available all information to decide on the exercise of pension disability insurance rights and decisions could be made in a much shorter period and with greater legal certainty. Potential beneficiaries of pension and disability rights would not have to spend more time and personally provide a huge number of evidence of their rights. The bill provides for the unification of several existing registers run by different state authorities from the domains of their responsibilities. In Article 10. The draft law shall state all original official records and data to be processed. I think their number is reduced to the right measure, the measure needed to achieve the most important rights and duties of citizens, which is good. Certainly the biggest issue to be asked about the regulation of such a substance is the protection of personal data. The fact is that a set of significant numbers of sensitive data, about a person in one place, creates the possibility of abuse of different species or the possibility of such data being obtained by unauthorized persons. But Article 15 of this Bill provides for who has insight into the data of the Central Population Register, which is good. As the Law on the Protection of Personality Data can be said to represent a good basis, we can hope that different potential irregularities regarding the application of this law will be reduced to a minimum. This must certainly be done both in terms of information and physical protection. Efforts must also be made in the verification and training of personnel to be authorised to handle and access such data. This should be insisted on the adoption of sublegal acts. Secondly, I think you should pay attention when applying this law to the quality of the data, which is already in individual registers, which will become part of the future central population register. Particular attention should be paid to data from the unique record of the immovableity of the tax administration’s catastra, since there are often cases of discrepancies between these data and the real situation on the ground, i.e. the data found there in individual cases are even decades old. It won't be good if such data isn't updated and still cross-referenced with those in other registers. Article 16 provides deadlines for erasing data in the Central Register, of ten and five years in certain cases, I think the very idea of setting up such a register, hair with any data deleting, unless it is about correcting any errors. The PUPS parliamentary group will give its support to this law and to all the laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51991	The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51992	I thank the chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as far as the current Tourism Act is concerned, this area is regulated, but not only with regard to the EU directives and regulations, above all, developed tourism countries, but also the very stage of development of tourism and catering in the Republic of Serbia. Thus, conditions were created to regulate this area more systematically through two laws, and these are the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage. As priority tasks, this law, first of all, defines the need to reduce the grey economy in this area, which is the main problem. Secondly, a alignment was made with the strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2016 to 2025. Third, there has been a need to comply with EU directives since December 2015. When we talk about the objectives of this law, above all, the key objective is to improve and coordinate the public and private sectors in tourism. When I say public and private sectors, I don't just mean national, regional and local levels. Secondly, more precise are the rights, i.e. precision of the right is the obligation of tourism organisations to be responsible at all levels, national, regional and local levels. This law, in order to protect public interest, is also given wider powers, but also responsibilities and obligations to units of local self-government, in part, what is now important, the submission of an initiative to declare a tourist space which has not been defined so far, because many areas and segments of tourism potentials in Serbia have not been used properly. For example, according to the data, as an illustration, and the knowledge of the Faculty of Agriculture and Geology in Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia has the highest number of inhabitants of geothermal waters in Europe, as it also places us in the category of countries with the highest geothermal potential, and the current use is only 10%. Our country is rich with these resources, especially the areas of central and southern Serbia, the Sword, Vojvodina, a very important space that is rich in these waters, even moving from Vranjska Banja, there to 96 to 100 degrees, and so on. For example, not only Niška Banja and Niš town, but the entire Niška cauldron lies on a large lake of warm water located at a depth of 350 to 800 meters, and the water temperature is up to 50% Celsius. Warm water is, as I said, one of the most valuable natural resources Serbia can offer both foreign and domestic investors when it comes to tourism. Here, it is also a good opportunity for local self-government in Serbia, above all, to launch the research process in its territory with the help of the ministry, the state through relevant institutions that are currently in this area. Tourism in Serbia is growing undeniably regardless of the criticism we hear both yesterday and today, as shown by the data that counterpart Karanac mentioned yesterday, and I will give you a few from the review of the region's tourism traffic data in southern and eastern Serbia. For the region of southern and eastern Serbia, the situation is that the number of tourists in 2018 increased by 17% compared to 2017, also in southern and eastern Serbia the number of overnight stays increased compared to 2017 23%, the City of Nis 15%, night 12%, Sokobanja, you heard yesterday from your co-worker to 88% increase in number of tourists, the increase in overnight stays is 90%, etc. It is the merit of all those from the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications who are engaged, above all, and are in charge of the area of tourism, and before all Ministers Rasim Ljajic. Otherwise, as far as the Serbian Government's measure is concerned, I must mention for the promotion of domestic tourism through the award of vouchers, my colleague Knezevic is here, we have worked together and worked on which, since 2018, Niška Banja has finally been covered and gave excellent results, not only through the increase in the number of domestic tourists who spent their holidays in the spa, but through a significant extension of the duration of their stay. With only eight accommodation facilities that met the conditions in Niška Banja in 2018, nearly 2,000 nights were issued in four months. And if it seems to some maybe as a modest result it's 300 times as much as it was in the previous years and you know it well, because until then Niška Banja wasn't even in the voucher system. The municipality of Niška Banja continuously conducts the training of landlords for categorization of accommodations, etc. In 2019, with the help of the Ministry of Tourism of Trade and Telecommunications, a project will be implemented to edit the reconstruction of the Central Square with fountains in Niška Banja and this is the fourth and final phase in the renovation of the centre of Niška Banja itself. In voting day, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51993	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51994	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and honourable MPs, I would like to address today, above all, the Law on the Proposal for a Law on the Central Population Register, because I find it very important. The Central Register Act introduces a brand-new institution, a place of crucial importance for state affairs as well as for all citizens. It will be the main information pillar for all affairs in the state administration, local self-government, various funds, as well as in various state and public services. Today's data, as already said in the debate so far, is being recorded in 11 records stored in five databases. These are the bases of state administrations and self-government, the MUP, the PIO Fund, the Tax Administration and the Republic Geodesy Institute. Sometimes they are harmonised, it is perhaps even sometimes a different methodology, a range of data or their kind and a question of how competitive or fully usable they are in one place and in the same sense. Also today, many records are also conducted in paperwork. Many people have been hired on them, and these records are also unsettled, because of this and today it happens to citizens that in order to solve certain issues go from counter to counter, from bank to bank, and there is still that miraculous sentence "you lack another piece of paper". It is, of course, a waste of time both for citizens and for the state, a waste of time for economy, for investors, but also for the seriousness of business zones and markets. That is why this system is necessary and will be the main source and haven of all future important data in one place. The law stipulates that such regulated and united data can be accessed by clearly authorised authorities. I point out here – the importance and sensitivity of working in this government service, which must be highly trained, professional and responsible, what has been discussed so far. I also believe that, at the very beginning, as little problems and mistakes as possible must be provided. For example, skeptics would say – how to correct literal mistakes. Those who work with papers and letters know that the letter or number is a miracle. No matter how much you look at paper, the letter can slip away from us, so, for one letter, it's not the same person, or the same identity, same numerical error. So is it possible in this future system that there is a fall, the so-called electronic system, what are the reactions in that case? What are the reactions to possible abuses, hacking hackers, etc. How do you solve the correctness, or uniqueness of the parent number? I'm going to dedicate at this point just one amazing case that we saw through the media a few months ago that the deceased had three birth numbers, that in the future Central Register, it's understood that it can't exist and it won't exist, so this period of a year while we have it up to its application, I think all these things should be predicted and the system applied and made sure that these cases don't come up in the future. Otherwise, what I think is particularly important is that not only the domestic Serb population, i.e. Serbian residents, but also the data on foreigners, refugees, displaced persons, asylum seekers, which is also extremely good. Is it also foreseen for all who are here on temporary work, especially those who have left Serbia? There is an increasing mobility of the population, Serbia is becoming an increasingly open market, and the movement of goods and labour and simply and at this moment we must be predictable of this kind of frustration and migration in every respect, both outside the country and within it. So, the Central Register is an extremely important thing, without which in future time we can no longer function as either state or as citizens. That's why we support him. But I also have to ask this - for example, is it possible to do something like a record in future time, or register all of those citizens of the Serbian states living in other countries? I will just remind myself of the fact that on the one hand, I say orientation in the state of Serbia has five, six million inhabitants, but five million of our citizens live outside Serbia. How to get to that data tomorrow and how to bring all these human resources closer to the state of Serbia tomorrow and, possibly in future, all these values and human capital into the development of our state of Serbia? By the way, the Central Register itself is a condition for digitisation from all other segments of society, this efficiency has already shown its quality, for example in parent books, and the other day a unique information system of local tax administration was introduced. All of this should affect the arrival of new investors in Serbia, employment, new business and fully decorated space and Serbia's position much better in the World Bank position and other significant places. Data from the Central Register also said in the explanation, which is good, will affect the safety of the population, data security, cost reduction, efficiency, trends in population policy and so on. So, I want to conclude the Central Register, of course, that the sooner it is, the better Serbia is changing and improving this picture, and it should be even more intensive in the future and on the conditions of life and on the conditions of work and economic growth that are being achieved in Serbia. It is important to say that we must change ourselves, and what Minister Ruzic mentioned some time ago, I will almost quote it, we must change our own habits. We must change ourselves and respect the laws we adopt. Of course, the hardest thing to do is to do it at home, because as soon as we go to other countries, we immediately adopt new rules, we adopt new laws, we change our behavior, we change our attitude to work and our attitude towards the state. We need to do that in Serbia too so that it is done as we should and as we wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51995	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51996	Thank you. Dear Vice President, respected members of the government, respected MPs, with the processes of globalisation and the increasing mobility of people in the modern world tourism and hospitality represent an increasingly significant economic branch. We are witnessing that, on the one hand, an increasing number of our citizens are spending their shorter or longer vacations abroad, and that an increasing number of foreign citizens are coming to our country. Travellers and guests are making increasing demands on service quality. New types of tourism activities are also reported and all this requires that legal regulations follow practice to minimise the number of potential problems in this area as much as possible. The most important newspaper that the Tourism Law should bring is better regulation of the work of tourist agencies which represent the key to tourist activity, i.e. the intermediary between passengers, users of services, on one hand, and tourist entrepreneurs, the service provider on the other. We have had opportunities to see from the media, and many of us, and in personal experiences, that the source of many problems is right here in those agencies that need to connect two interested parties. Whenever the holiday season comes, the press is full of texts about passengers who are either out of transportation or without accommodation or the kind of service they paid their money for, and it's especially painful to see that happening to our children on excursions. It is estimated that the damaged passengers were even hundreds, and we have already reached the number of dozens of different economic operators involved in the organisation of tourist trips. For themselves, these facts say that this area is with many unresolved problems. Therefore, I think it is good that this bill introduces stricter conditions for their establishment and registration, for the issue of work licences, because it has long matured time for the various suspicious mechanics to finally remove themselves from this activity and cease to be unfair competition to those who work in accordance with the rules and who regularly pay taxes. On the other hand, as citizens, we ourselves must have a higher level of responsibility, first of all to ourselves, and we should not be guided by someone offering a few-tenths of the euro a cheaper arrangement. It must be known that these are relatively complex economic contracts that require certain costs, so they cannot go below certain real prices. In that sense, I think it's a good solution that's been made in art. 58 to 61. The bill introduced by the Institute of Travel Guarantees will thus cover the fact that any type of non-fulfilment of the contract will be compensated immediately by the guaranteeing provider, and that it will be refunded by the travel organisers. It may be banal, but among other things an important provision in the proposed article 74, where it was even going to norm the size of the letters in travel arrangements, but it also testifies that such provisions from us are, unfortunately, necessary for the protection of passengers. In addition to these provisions, the new bill provides for more precise regulation of some areas that have been less decorated so far, such as car rental services, renters and services for renting tourist guides and animators. The work of hospitality will be dealt with in the future in a separate legal text, and this is due to the requirement to bring the legislation in this area into line with EU regulations. In this law, there is one important newspaper to be welcomed, which is Article 29, which defines what does not belong to the catering service, and, among other things, it is stated that it does not include accommodation, preparation and food service in old-person establishments. This is a very important provision, because this area has been unregulated in practice so far. Many pensioners’ associations at the local level organised food storage for their members, and this was a problem, as they were transferred to engage illegally in catering or not to meet all the prescribed conditions for carrying out that activity. It must be borne in mind that such restaurants are organised almost and exclusively for the purpose of helping pensioners with the lowest incomes and old and poor citizens, that they are mostly closed type and operate at non-price prices or even serve food and drink free of charge for the most vulnerable, and that, therefore, they cannot create any competition with seriously oriented catering facilities and entrepreneurs and therefore it is good to finally distinguish that this activity does not fall into classical hospitality and thus avoid further problems in the immediate application of the law. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group sees the government's great efforts to develop tourism that deliver high results, and thus increase revenues. The parliamentary group will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51997	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not here. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51998	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will refer to the proposal for a law on the Central Population Register, which is within the authority of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The adoption of the Law on the Central Register of Population is rounding the legal basis for the digitisation of public administration before which citizens daily exercise their specific rights and fulfil their legal obligations. The unique Central Register will represent a unique, centralised and reliable state database, which will contain accurate and up-to-date data on the population of the Republic of Serbia in electronic format. For the first time, from 13 records, six institutions, such as the MUP, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the RGZ, the local tax administration and the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration are placed in a single register. It is about data relating to the population, and they are in a number of different databases that are run in different ways by different bodies which make it difficult and slows down the exchange of these data. The work of the administration is directly related to the everyday life of the population, and is constantly under public attention, requiring further modernisation, simpler procedures, more efficient work, which will allow the establishment of a single Central Register. Citizens will no longer have to go from the counter to the counter and collect their documents to complete their proceedings and exercise their rights, but one official authority will be able to do for them by accessing the central population register without unnecessary costs and waste of time. Also, neither the processing of data on the population of the Republic of Serbia under the Central Register will enable and contribute to more efficient management of administrative and other procedures of authorities at all levels of government. That is why for us from local self-government and this law, as well as a number of previous ones from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government who have introduced the electronic administration and modernised its work, means simplifying procedures, more efficient administration and satisfying citizens. The Vrbas Municipal Administration pays special attention to the promotion of IT and the introduction of eGovernment. Our municipality is one of the 60 local self-governments in Serbia that participated in the assessment of the state of electronic administration from October to December 2018, under the "Swiss PRO" project supported by the Government of Switzerland, conducted by the UNOPS in co-operation with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities and the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. The aim of this activity is to establish a full and functional electronic administration system at local level in accordance with the applicable laws and strategic frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. In our municipality, special attention has been paid to the creation of preconditions for the establishment of electronic administrations in the previous period, by providing an adequate organisation of businesses and work tasks for electronic administration, by providing professional staff, with experience, qualifications for the application of procedures, regulations and are covered by continuous education in the field of the use of information and communication technologies. In this regard, more than a quarter of municipal administration employees, about 40 of them, are covered by continued education, and there is interest in other employees. E-baby programs, programs in the work of Matica, social activities, e-salter and e-catastra, which implies using the database of catastra and which our local self-government uses for the tasks of the law of local self-government and expropriation and conversion. The objective of the e-Government is to simply carry out the verification of documents that citizens have so far had to obtain themselves, as well as the exchange of data between the two authorities in order to communicate as quickly as possible. The benefit of the establishment of the register will not only be given to citizens, but also to state bodies before which citizens appear as service users. The Central Population Register Act should become one of the public administration information pillars. By establishing the Central Register of Population as an electronic database, the authorities will no longer have to exchange public documents in the conduct of the procedure. the documents, already authorised by the competent authority, will, under official duty, only now only obtain the necessary information by electronic means, thereby speeding up the procedure and at the same time significantly reducing the costs and discharging the administration. For the purposes of the decision-making process, it is necessary for the Authority to establish all facts and circumstances, so that the parties had to provide different documentation, i.e. public documents containing data from official records. These data will be required under the new law to be supplied by bodies under official duty in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, different bodies will not have to exchange documents with each other, but the authorised person from the competent authority will simply obtain the necessary information by electronic means, without including other administration bodies in the process. This speeds up the process and at the same time significantly reduces costs, facilitates the communication of the economy and citizens with the administration. State authorities and services will be able to obtain data for services provided to citizens, and any change in its records will be automatically updated in the central population register. The registry will be run by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and the law is taxing and listing people whose data will be found in the central population register database. The ministry will also monitor the application of this law, which is foreseen as of 1 September 2020. At the same time, the law solves a very important problem, which is the security of personal data, as well as data on the person(s) in the central register of the population by prescribing that the competent minister determines the list of reception authorities, and the receiving authorities authorise persons who have the right to download data directly from the Central Register and keep records of them. Finally, I would like to commend the work of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Minister Branko Ruzic, who since the start of the mandate, not only by proposing more important laws in the field of state administration and local self-government, but also by continuing presence on the ground contributes to improving the work of local self-government. The indicator of the better situation in the sector is that 30% less paper copies were issued in the previous year compared to the previous year, which means that the citizens were less in line, in front of the counters, not paying paper fees because the state did so for them. Another proof that the state has a partnership with citizens is the upcoming and probationary census of the population to be conducted in 260 census districts in 51 municipalities, and from April 1st to 7th in Novi Sad, Nis and Belgrade, certain censuses will be able to write themselves on the internet. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the law I spoke of and other laws from a single and joint search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u51999	Thank you, colleagues. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52000	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished gentlemen of the Ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, we have before us an extremely important and completely new law on the Central Population Register, which is a new step towards establishing a modern and efficient public administration. In addition to citizens who will no longer have the need to submit to the attention of various documents and copies, certificates, beliefs and the like, the Central Registry will facilitate and speed up the procedure and work of officials, because they will be able to access the data electronically without the need to be delivered by citizens or other authorities. It is also very important that citizens will have the right to access data relating to them, i.e. that they are guided by the Central Population Register, to verify the accuracy of the data, i.e. to indicate possible inaccuracies. I especially want to highlight the importance and positive effects this law will have on persons with disabilities and their families because so far it has been a very big problem both in obtaining the necessary documentation for the exercise of a right and in determining the obligation. The biggest problem is when you have to bring a child with developmental disorders into a particular institution to sign or some other obligation he has to fulfil during an administrative procedure. Waiting in line for people with mental difficulties who do not have visual handicaps and very often do not come across the understanding of others because they are not easy to recognize, was each time a new trauma for both the child and the parents. It is good that this law will establish the basics of the single legal regime and the standard for the conduct of the business of state authorities in a way that each of our citizens is satisfied with the services that will be swift, efficient and costless. In line with this my question in the context of public debates, one of the proposals was to include household data in the Central Population Register in addition to the data provided for in the draft of this law. For example, one family household, a couple with children, a couple with no children, a household with one family, a household with two families and the like, i.e. in Article 6. The draft law provides for the establishment of a family and household register. This suggestion on the Draft Law was not accepted for the reason that the Central Population Register would be established and managed as an executed registry that downloaded data from the original registers. I believe that this information is extremely important and that it was necessary to find a way to find this type of record in the register, given that one of the objectives of adopting this law is reliable and relevant monitoring, analysis of the situation and trends of the population, carrying out statistical, socio-economic and other research and analysis. My second question concerns Article 5. The bill, where it is prescribed that data from citizens of the Republic of Serbia without registered residence in the territory of Serbia, but also persons whose status is particularly sensitive or specific on a specific basis, including refugees, asylum seekers, asylum seekers, foreigners who have been granted asylum, foreigners with approved temporary residence, will be found in the Central Register of the population of the Republic of Serbia. However, the Central Registry does not provide the possibility of registering the population of the Republic of Serbia, which, based on temporary work abroad or any other basis, leaves Serbia for a longer period of six months. The regular census is done for ten years and this is a fairly long period of time for the revision of existing records in order to carry out statistical, socio-economic and other research and analysis, as well as the conduct of other laws or other rules of established conditions. The central register is a law that solves many of the problems that have been mentioned today, but should also consider proposals that have been made in the coming period, concerning the improvement of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52001	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52002	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage and their positive effects. Tourism is one of the world's leading economic branches, which, by its development, also draws the development of other industries. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the great importance of this economic branch, which confirms the drafts of these laws, as well as the adoption of the National Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia from 2016 to 2025, adopted on 17 November 2016. This strategy has a very precise action plan. This plan defines key destinations, some of which are already largely on the market, and some need to develop additional investments and incentives. It is important that there is awareness that tourism must be one of Serbia's priorities, as Serbia has huge opportunities to develop all tourism branches. Serbia has a wide potential, both geographical and rich cultural and historical heritage. Serbia has opportunities to develop a wide range of tourist products, both mountainous, both watery, urban, congressional, health, Banjski, cultural and historical, and others. The tourism law regulates one of the most important industries – tourism, editing and planning its development to promote the same, as well as follow-up activities. Unique standards are provided for the provision of services in this area, the protection of the national economy, the provision of public unique electronic records. It provides respect for human rights and dignity for people with disabilities. This law plans and realises tourism development policy in line with the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia. This strategy sets long-term goals for tourism planning and development, in line with economic, social, ecological, cultural, historical development. The reason for the adoption of this Law on Tourism, as well as the Law on Restaurants, is to regulate the areas of tourism and hospitality, as conditions have been created to regulate these related areas with two laws, not as one law so far. In view of EU regulation, the regulation of developed tourism countries in the environment, as well as the extent of the achieved development of tourism and hospitality in the Republic of Serbia, this is a justification for the adoption of this law to achieve its goal. The bill is the result of an analysis of the tourism market and an examination of the problems faced by tourism operators, as well as other factors that carry out economic activity related to tourism. The priority goal is to reduce the gray economy by regulating this area. It should be noted that the law is in line with the National Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia, as well as compliance with the European Directive. One of the most important objectives is to improve and coordinate all public actors, both national, regional and local and private sectors in tourism, in order to achieve maximum results defined by the strategy. The rights, obligations, responsibilities of tourist organisations are defined at all levels. Data are broader powers to local self-government and as a primary goal is to highlight the rights of the protection of users of services. The update and storage of a unique centralised database in the protection of personality data shall be arranged. The law regulates and defines the degree of inspection supervision in this area. For the first time in tourism professions, the possibility of passing sign language exams is introduced, which will be considered a foreign language, which promotes the inclusion of tourism in the Republic of Serbia. In one word, creating conditions for the rapid development of tourism and quality services will have a positive impact on economic growth and development, creating new additional values, new employment and improving and improving the country's image on the world's tourist map and its competitiveness as a desirable tourist destination. In the field of nautical tourism, both in hunting tourism and in the field of hunting tourism, the law on hospitality is governed by the terms and conditions. Certain terms mentioned in this Act are defined, as well as the exact definition of catering activity and who can do all the same. The obligations of the caterer, residence tax, as well as the exact records of the caterer and the catering facilities are defined. Also, Article 14 provides that the ministry is responsible for tourism affairs to update all data into the central information system in the field of tourism and hospitality, as well as make it available to the providers of these services. The host providing the service shall be obliged to enter data on the user of accommodation through the central information system in a regulated manner. Given the priority of digitising the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the further development of the E-Government, the introduction of a central information system in the area of tourism and hospitality, so-called The ‘E-Tourist’ will contain all relevant information on accommodation service providers and other types of tourist and catering activity. This law defines the types of services, types of facilities, as well as their categorization by the competent ministry as local self-government units. The law regulates the need for staff training of catering facilities, as well as catering services in domestic facilities and rural tourist households. The nautical and tourist activity, the obligation of the provider of these services, the recording of the providers and facilities of this type of service, the categorization of marinas, has also been defined. The law has also defined and defined the catering work in hunting tourism facilities, the obligations of providers and the records of objects, as well as the type and categorization of objects. It is defined who pays the residence tax, the way and the date, as well as who is exempt from paying the same. The funds from the payment of the residence fee are the income of the budget of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the accommodation services are provided. It is also regulated to monitor the provisions of this law through tourist inspectors, as well as their rights and obligations. The organisation of tourism and catering areas has a significant direct and indirect impact on other business activities, direct both on trade, sport, infrastructure, traffic, quality medical services, banana treatment, various kinds of cultural events, top sports events of European and world importance, and indirect on agriculture, industry, construction and energy and other activities. The regulation of this area will increase the level of citizens' interest in carrying out this activity, increase investment levels, create new businesses and increase market competition. In the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support these laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52003	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic is not here. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52004	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, a set of laws on today's agenda that we are considering in the principle debate continue the continuity of these governments, but also these National Assemblys in the adoption of laws of which the state has a great benefit, as well as its citizens. First, I'm going to look back at the Central Population Register, as the first law on the agenda, which shows that all the laws we've passed in previous sessions have just united this Central Population Register and allowed us to just pass one of these laws. Thousands and thousands of papers, thousands and thousands of people waiting in line don't have to come into the municipalities anymore, to the ministries, to any part where they used to come because they can now do it by electronic means. What has been an impossible mission for some, it is precisely the digitisation and introduction of modern electronic aids and the application of electronic devices in Serbia, and I think we are leading in this part of Europe. What is even more significant is the well-being these laws have and are passed. Citizens have already felt it and in the coming period the benefits will be even greater. The conditions for the functioning of the state have just been met by such and similar laws. The highest possible level of data protection, of course, is that it is present and that is what no one is questioning, because the Central Registry would not be possible and would not be applicable if the set of laws that preceded it had already been implemented had not found its full application in municipalities, cities and ministries, or throughout the country. On the other hand, we are also discussing in principle a set of laws in the area of agriculture, that is, food security, plant protection, plant health and tourism. This is important, extremely important, and it is simply an opportunity to praise both the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Nedimovic, because it is the Ministry of Agriculture that recognises problems and finds solutions, through different legal regulations and laws and those problems that solves in the best possible way. What's the key, it looks very simple, but it's not, which is that incentives go to those who encourage you to benefit, that the incentives for agriculture are used exclusively for agriculture. It is very important, it is clear that citizens are also familiar with this – one who abuses any kind of incentive goes in, as it is officially called, into a passive. So someone who abuses the state, abuses the help it gets from citizens, simply won't be able and won't be allowed to do it for a while. A colleague who comes from Svrlig is certainly right when he says he comes from one of the most beautiful municipalities, but there are other beautiful municipalities besides Svrlig, not to mention, and municipalities from the Mačvan County, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Koceljev, my Vladimirs, Mionica, etc., etc. But a beautiful municipality is not a sufficient condition for some municipality to advance and that citizens can expect light and a future that is in line with the position and places where they live. In order for the municipality of Srljig, as well as all other municipalities in Serbia to move on, the state needs help, system assistance is needed. If I tell you that I come from Sapac, from western Serbia, where after so many years one Shabac, one Loznica and Valjevo do not have a highway, it just shows that the development of a municipality depends on a number of factors and a factual system solution of the state. What is good, this Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia will, here, inform and cheer the citizens of Sapac and the entire western Serbia and the Macuvan region, the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica will now allow these laws that we adopt from the areas of tourism, agriculture and the areas of state governance to find their application. Because I repeat, a solution for all municipalities, regardless of their size and location in Serbia, is a system solution and a solution that only the state can make. The future of this country and the future of our citizens is precisely in these laws. These are good laws, important laws, laws of the future, and all those who think well of this country and these citizens will vote. Those who do not think about their citizens and their country and are not in their jobs, or in the congregation, those who do not come to the congregation but walk around the congregation, may answer. Everyone is responsible for his actions, so according to this, the answer to what he is, how he has done in the previous period, or in his mandate, will give directly to those who have put them there, and these are citizens. What's good, everything can be measured, and support to those who work and those who don't work will be easily measured in the elections, and that's the only place where things can and where things are solved. Serbia's fate and its future are just the elections, and according to what we are and how much we have won in the elections held for the Republika Srpska Assembly, we are doing accordingly and in accordance with these laws and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, for all that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic is doing at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52005	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Jelena Vujic Obradović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52006	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like first of all to welcome our distinguished guests in the National Assembly, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Nedimovic, with his associates, as well as the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Ruzic, with his associate. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, led by Dragan Markovic Palm, will support a whole set of proposed laws in the area of agriculture, laws submitted by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as well as laws in the field of tourism and hospitality. So we will support all the laws, the entire set of laws, as well as the amendments and additions to the laws that you have proposed. Serbian citizens, the public, should know that Serbia is doing well for its citizens, talking to citizens, organising round tables and that only strong state administration, stable local self-government, Serbian agriculture, Serbian villages and Serbian tourism are a pillar of society. In the context of the general debate of this assembly session, ahead of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, I will refer to a full set of draft laws on the agenda for decision-making. The Law on the Central Population Register submitted by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the first proposed law, an extremely important law of state administration and local self-government, followed a number of legal changes and additions, I am free to say, after reforming the entire system of state administration and local self-government. This law on the Central Population Register, we from the parliamentary group, all MPs of the Single Serbia think it will facilitate not only the state authorities, but primarily the citizens of Serbia, so far a very big administrative procedure. This is in support of the fact, and Minister Ruzic said about it, that the Central Data Register will now unite in one place all the data that were in 13 different official records. The objective of the adoption of the Central Register Act is certainly a modern, efficient and rational state administration. Unique Serbia advocates making it easier for Serbian citizens, so that this central registry law must prescribe the security of these data, that data should not be misused at all, and that the official who will manage these data must also have control from the top of the state administration. Due to all this, respected ministers and associates, I am convinced, as well as colleagues from my parliamentary group, that this law is a very good law, that it has followed a number of reforms and that good government, as well as stable local self-government, are the pillar of this society, so that the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia will support this law, because your ministry gives not only financial support but also logistical support to local self-governments, which is also an indicator of good administration. Of course, I will also call on the minister to pay even more attention to smaller municipalities, less local self-government and, if necessary, to help these municipalities to implement the law in a timely manner when it is passed, and it is stated in this legislative proposal that around 20 September, after adoption, the law should enter into force. As for the Agriculture Act, the respected Minister Nedimovic, the laws you have submitted speak of food safety, plant protection, land processing. You, ministers, have denied the news, which has spread on social networks as well, and believe that it has upset Serbian citizens, when it comes to introducing GMOs, that it is a zero degree of tolerance. That's good news, and it's good that this is the kind of thing you've denied. It is very important for Serbian agriculture. I'm an MP who comes from Racine County, to say from one heart of the agricultural area where the population is largely engaged in agriculture. So, in my Sub-Spainland, agriculture is the breadth of the housewives. I will take this opportunity, given the changed climate conditions and the great, to say, natural disasters that often, especially in the last three and five years, have hit this area, the Sub-Spanish area and villages, now I would not specifically say, but the most villages, of which not even the media has written enough and paid attention to, villages not only Rasinski. but also Raško district - Ploča, Rokci, Jelakci, Josanička Banja, Pleš, Krina Reka, these are all villages that suffered the catastrophic consequences especially in 2018, where in three times crops were completely and the crops planted, not only for that year, but for the following year. So, given the estimated damage, please, you come to Rasinski County often and really full support to your ministry for everything you do for farmers, but if your obligations allow you to visit these villages, and in the field you see how to help these agricultural producers. It is true that most of them now as agricultural landowners are insured, but however, it is not enough, given the damage and exceeds the possibilities of insurance, the damage they have suffered from snow, frost and other disasters. We have a third law that you have also explained, the Tourism Act and the Household Act. It's two separate laws now, a brand-new law. Serbia has reached a higher level of tourism and economic offer in recent years, and in 2018 alone, it says 17% of the foreign surplus is compared to the previous year when foreign tourists are concerned. It gives a completely different and brighter picture of Serbia, not only when it comes to our domestic tourists, but also foreign tourists coming to Serbia, but also our tourists travelling abroad. In Austria, there is currently a Serbian Jagodinian delegation, a tourist delegation of 850 young people, students, recognized Austria itself as the importance of this visit and delegation headed by Dragan Markovic Palm, and rewarded the honourary gold medal of the city of Vienna, which is rarely awarded by the mayor of Vienna, and in order to improve the relationship between Vienna and Serbia, Serbia and Austria, tourist, educational and relatively important visits. Serbia as a country with huge tourist potentials, not only when it comes to mountains, but also about spas, but also about rural tourism on which the accent has been dropped in particular in recent years, is very important and is investing so that IPARD programmes, which improve tourism and rural tourism, are now available. So the new law will certainly contribute to the improvement of the tourism offer in line with the Tourism Development Strategy in Serbia. The JS parliamentary group will vote for all proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52007	Thank you. My colleague Branimir Rancic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52008	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws that are very important for Serbia's European integration, and I would particularly like to highlight the Food Safety Act, concerning Chapter 12. Since this is the subject of hygiene studies at the Medical School as a doctor, I'm going to talk about the law. The food safety law is extensive, and I will only comment on some of his members. As we know, food is necessary for the life of man and all living things, because it has multiple significance and roles in providing life functions. It is made up of all the substances that a person introduces into the organism in a processed and unprocessed state, spices, colors and all other substances that are added to improve their properties, increase biological value and extend sustainability. In recent years, because of the increasing use in the production and processing of food of various pesticides, hormones and additives, the residual residuals of these substances pose an increasing danger to the so-called “supervised” species. alimentary toxins. Since they pose a real danger to human health, the use of animal and plant food production and technological processing procedures must be strictly regulated by regulations and carefully determined by the permitted amount of residuals in finished products, with constant revision of the standards and conditions laid down in the new knowledge of their adverse effect on human health. Otherwise, there is a real danger of creating a new modern alimony pathology with consequences that we are now unable to see to the end, which is exactly what we are doing with these amendments and additions to the Food Safety Act, and I would say about food health. To remind you, food safety control in our country has been regulated by the 2009 Food Safety Act. The law transposes the relevant EU rules into national legislation so as to ensure high new protection of human health and protection of consumers' interests. Although this legal solution has made the animal safety system known and recognised in the European and world frameworks, some shortcomings relating to, firstly, the establishment, organisation and functioning of reference laboratories have been identified, so that due to the lack of personnel and equipment, the basic role of the Directorate for National Laboratory References, established by the Food Safety Act, cannot be met. Secondly, food that was not fully covered by food conditions for specific population groups, food supplements, salt quality, health regularity, safety of materials and objects that come into contact with food, additives, aromas, paints, enzyme preparations and other, as well as declarations. Third, it is necessary to exclude genetically modified food and food for animals from the Food Safety Act, given that this area is governed by the 2009 GMO Act, which prescribes zero tolerance. The fact is that industrial food products can be used as an enhancer of flavouring flavouring monosodium glitamate or E621. The finished sauces, soups, sausages, pâtés and many meat products contain an E691 additive in the people is known as a hunger challenger, and other than that, there is almost no other function. Food industry can hardly be imagined without the use of additives. I think that the relevant rules should rule out the use of a consciousness additive as little as possible, and the enhancer of the taste of monosodium glutamate E691 should absolutely be excluded, as it has been done for the food of infants and for young children. In the end, it is not possible to remove the impression as a doctor that the Serbian Doctors' and Pharmaceuticals Union has supported protests that organises recycleds or, as the rested DOS is now said. As the founder of the union in Belgrade's House of Trade in 1991, at the invitation of the initial board and Dr. Luka Jovicevic, the union was the response to the poor position of doctors, the salary range of specialists doctors and unqualified workers two to one. After the attack of 16,000 doctors at the time of the government of Zoran Zivkovic in 2003, I note that it was the first doctor's strike, the range was three to one, and today, at a time when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic made efforts, the relationship was 4.75 to one. Today, the union is more profiled as a political party on the "Local Front" list. That is why the union of doctors and pharmacists of Serbia lost its membership and lost its representative position in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" since 02.06.2017. So you know what kind of doctor and pharmacist union it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52009	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52010	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, I would like to present some important details that make me think that we have some good bill proposals in front of us today, which is why I'm going to vote for these proposals anyway. I will start with the proposal for a law on the Central Population Register, because the Central Population Register is a novelty in the modern and efficient state system and it will connect and unite the already existing official records and databases that we already have from 13 different areas. For example, it will link the register of home books, citizenship records, citizens' home numbers, residence records, residences and temporary residence abroad, identity records, travel documents, central registers of compulsory social security, taxpayers' records, as well as foreign records, etc. This allows all state authorities, organisations and local self-government, institutions, public enterprises and others to carry out their tasks in a reliable, economical and efficient manner, based on centralised, accurate and up-to-date, reliable data obtained from one place from that new Central Register of Population. All of this, for the ultimate purpose, will be that our citizens will not have to apply different documentation in order to exercise their right, but rather the state will do so for them. I note that each citizen will have access to data relating to him in order to verify the accuracy, complete and possible corrections, as appropriate, of these data in the original records. I would also like to point out that the law provides for the existence of the highest degree of protection and security of data in the Central Population Register, in order to prevent any possible misuse of personal data, which is certainly a matter of great account. The central population register, as a prerequisite for the digitisation of public administration, is necessary for the normal functioning of modern society in accordance with international and European standards. Furthermore, the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on plant and land processing products will reduce or avoid duplication in the adoption of large and small-scale transport solutions and enrolment in the Register of distributors and importers. This law accurately defines what is entered in the Register of distributors and importers. The establishment and functioning of official laboratories are defined, the conditions to be met by official laboratories in respect of accreditation are defined more precisely by public-interest operations, the conditions for the import of plant and land-processing products are determined, the additional costs of producers, importers and distributors of certain plant-eating products and tax are determined. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Food Safety Act, the basic reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: the shortcomings observed in the applicable law are eliminated, the clearer division of the competences and responsibilities of the authorities responsible for carrying out official controls, i.e. covering the food chain by including and controlling all food in the retail phase, conditions are laid down for the establishment and functioning of a network of authorised and national reference laboratories capable of supporting agricultural production and state bodies in charge of carrying out official controls, conditions are created for the adoption of all sublaws for the implementation of the laws. In the end, I will also say something about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on plant protection funds. This law will deal with the issue of public interest in the field of plant health and diagnostics of harmful organisms more precisely. This will allow for more efficient and operational work of the entities carrying out these tasks. The adoption of this law will systematically shift the establishment of public-interest jobs in the field of plant health and diagnostics of harmful organisms. Also, entities in the field of plant health and their organisational forms, obligations and responsibilities are defined, as well as conditions and ways of trusting businesses of public interest. In accordance with the International Convention on Plant Protection, surveillance is established in the production, import and export of plants, it is possible to organise a system of operational laboratories that will work to identify harmful organisms, in order to prevent the spread of existing and the introduction of new harmful organisms, in order to ensure the smooth participation of the Republic of Serbia in international plant and plant transport. For all these reasons, I call upon the Members of the People to adopt the proposed laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52011	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52012	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will not talk about the laws of the area of agriculture because it's really said a lot, said competent people, people who deal primarily with agriculture, doctors who know how to behave and how to deal with life supplies. I will dedicate the focus of my presentation to three laws, which is the Law on the Central Register of Population and for the first time these two laws that separate from each other are the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage. When it comes to the Law on the Central Population Register, the law says Serbia is going in the right direction, that we want modern Serbia, Serbia in the information society. It is this law that sublimes everything that the government has done in the previous period, which means, first of all, to simplify the work of the public administration, to bring the public administration closer to the public and this law, to make it easier for the public administration itself to work, to have no communication between certain ministries, but to have certain people who are authorized from certain public services come up with the data that is necessary to do business first of all for the benefit of our citizens and for the sake of our citizens. So much for that. I'd like to say a few words about the laws of hospitality and tourism. Serbia is becoming very interesting in the world frameworks of a tourist destination. We may not even know how much of history we have to offer through a tourist offer. Many countries in the environment have taken advantage of this and are selling to tourists precisely parts of their history, stone, buildings, fortifications that have been visited much more than some tourist destination located on the seas. When we talk about it, I'll start from the Ra's administrative district, from the district from which I come as an MP. The Raška administrative district has much to do with tourism, beginning with Vrnjačka Banja, which is left at the beginning of the district, which has finally become a spa that it once was through history. She's been neglected for years, neglected. In the last ten years this government, and finally we MPs who have passed the laws to enable development and work, after all, and Vranjčka Banja, have done much to make the spa become and remain the tourism queen that was. So, you guys have a lot of new hotels, a lot of new content that we didn't have ten years ago. In addition to Vranjska Banja, there is “the Valley of the Ages”, “the Valley of the Ages”, which stretches from the King’s to the New Market. When I say "The Valley of the Ages", I mean many monasteries, not to mention the Students, so I can get there to Mileshev. We can offer all of that in our tourist offer. To round up, it was once an attempt, when I mention monasteries, primarily a tourist organisation that had SPC in its offer, but the work of the President of the Republic, the work of the Government, called this National Assembly, which works unlike those who walk the streets, did everything to give that tourist offer in one better way. How? Well, we know that on June 28th, the airport of Shipmen, Kraljevo, will officially be opened, we know that the Moravia Corridor is working, which means a lot for the development of tourism in the region where I live. So, all of those capacities that we have and which, hopefully, we will have in the future, I say, I think in the future of two very important and large spas next to the Kings, these are the Matarushka and Bogatovačka spas, which have a history, which have what to offer and unfortunately now only one part, a piece of medical, or health tourism, and with all these infrastructure capacities that we will have, I hope that these two spas will come to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52013	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52014	Thank you, Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today I would like to say a few words about the proposal for a law on the central population register. At the very beginning, I would say that the Central Population Register is definitely a major step in facilitating the procedure, as 11 records of Serbian citizens now in five bases are foreseen to be united in the register. More specifically, the Central Registry will cover the bases of the ministry, state administration and local self-government, the interior ministry, the central register of compulsory social security, tax administrations and the Republic Geodesy Institute. In practice, this means that all the databases and services that preceded the Central Register were automated to one level, but not to the fifth level and we always had to have some paper. By releasing this register, all other services will contribute that we will not need any paper, which is very important, because citizens will not have to go from the counter to the counter and collect their documents to complete the process, but one authority will be able to do so for them by accessing the Central Population Register. I must also point out one important thing, which is that the trend in the development of the Republic of Serbia, in the last four years, involves monitoring and comparing with the best and most advanced countries in all areas, which is why we are improving and introducing an information system and establishing the management of central databases, in areas where possible and therefore we act strategically, we are passing laws and sublegal acts, in order to fully activate the system in general and function more effectively, and in this case, the central population register. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are daily focused on taking action to solve all problems, and the adoption of legal frameworks is certainly the first in a series of activities to solve any problem that has arisen in society. When the SNS came to power, except for the people who chose us and who were worth fighting for, there was definitely no bright spot and a positive thing that we could hook up with and move forward. The Democratic Party destroyed Serbia and the Serbian people with robbery privatisations by a host of local and regional problems, corruption and crime. She was doing it consciously, with the goal of surviving only those with full accounts and companies in other countries and other continents. They had to remain in power at all costs because of their personal interests and wealth through the open robbery of nations and states, and they often forgot Gilas and his obedients and went to their meetings to talk about the rule of law. They talk about the law and the rule of law, those who have arrested 12,000 people at one point, seduced a dictatorship and allowed themselves more than the world's greatest and historically characterized dictators and will again and again. They will not be able to do so, for the people will not be deceived anymore, for they have barely survived once. It recognizes the Serbian people's intentions and reacts, but you Democrats react, but by beating people in their jobs, threaten and insult everyone who isn't with you the worst. You say the protests you organize are spontaneous, and I ask you what kind of protests are spontaneous, when you from DS invite citizens and youth, through your social networks, to gatherings, but good. You have to do this because you have to justify the money you took from your mentors and bring down the SNS. However, every day you experience a fiasco, because the people understand what it is and do not want to walk with those who would impose sanctions on Russia and who declare the brother Republika Srpska a genocide, who set the border on Brnjak and Jarinj and do everything to keep our kiM as far away from Serbia's mother as possible. You've been read and that's why you're irrelevant, all previous years we've been correcting DS mistakes, both locally and internationally. Most of the things they've done have far-reaching consequences, but it's important that we're on the right track now, and that the great forces and the countries around us behave and talk to us, like an equal partner, which we really are now, and we are. The adoption of the Central Register Act will have a direct and direct impact on all individuals and thus also on society in general, and above all by enabling all citizens to collect, collect, process and provide data in a legally regulated and transparent manner within one register. The establishment and management of the Central Register will make a significant contribution to citizens' rights. It is definitely that the Central Register, through its base, will provide significant opportunities for planning on the medium-term decision-makers, and through an automated database, will provide a large number of data, the accuracy of which is of great importance to the success of any strategy key to the development and prosperity of a society, such as population policy, education, infrastructure, security and the rest. I must stress that this kind of reform and this law have been waiting for decades and it is certain that the first and positive effects will be seen in a very short time, after the adoption of it. Therefore, the SNS will vote in favour of the adoption of the Central Registry Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52015	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52016	Dear Ministers with Associates, you spoke in detail yesterday and today about the proposals for legislation that are on the agenda of today's session and we from the SNS, we will support all proposals of the law in the day of the vote. I will remain in my presentation at the Tourism Law proposal, and I think we need this law, in order to eliminate, among other things, some earlier phenomena that have been written and reported by the media, cheated and played tourists, over-tired drivers, tourist buses, guides who receive their knowledge exclusively through Wikipedia, and many other unpleasant situations. If it travels by car or bus, positive impressions are stepped up by driving new highways, but also by restored and master's and regional roads, new highways, and we have indeed witnessed that never so many miles of highways and roads have been built today. We are witnessing all of this because in this way we want to affirm, not only our famous tourist destinations, in our country, but also those less famous tourist destinations, which there are many. A branch of the economy that has been developing the most intensely around the world for the past 30 years and which brings income to most countries that have the minimum conditions for affirmation of tourism has been taken seriously and accepted with us. We, on an annual level, as we all know, are making a great transit of passengers across our country and we want a large number of these passengers to remain in our country, to stay as long as possible in our country to spend money, to come back to us and to recommend our country to one of their relatives, friends or associates. The new bill right now aims to improve business in tourism in accordance with the modern legislation of the developed tourism countries of the world and to bring most of the activities involved in tourism business in line with the EU and its legislation. Benefits of tourism are numerous and every day this list is getting longer and longer, starting with the home economy making revenues through meeting tourists with our beautiful country, with our history, culture and tradition, and up to the working engagement of the local population and the reduction of the number of unemployed. We also know, as I said, that our country is truly a beautiful country and that it has something to offer tourists numerous contents. So, everything else is up to us, and if we work as well as we do so far and improve our business in tourism, we will also make bigger and bigger revenues and expand our capacities. I must say that the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, this government, as well as the previous government are working intensively and strongly on our country's affirmation, so that we have become famous, recognized and respected country. Many have, or done much to develop tourism, as everything is concentrated, not only on foreign tourists, but also on domestic tourists. The effects of such work are more than evident and obvious, but of course we will not stop at that. If we look back, the number of tourists is increasing from year to year, the revenues from tourism are growing, the side effects of tourism development are also evident, but we will continue to work to attract as many tourists as possible and achieve the best possible results. I come from the town of Nis and I can freely tell you that our number of tourists has increased drastically, especially from neighbouring Bulgaria, but also from all other countries of the world. I'll only provide one piece of information, let's say in 2018 we had over 220,000 overnight stays in Nis and the surrounding area. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52017	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52018	Thank you, President-in-Office, distinguished colleagues, distinguished members of the government, respected citizens, and here are several reform laws before us today and a continuation of those pre-election promises of this government. When we talk about this Central Population Register, it is clear that it will get something that will improve the quality of every life, every man in Serbia, and will certainly contribute to the more efficient work of public service employees and faster work, but it will also be worth it for citizens because the procedures and jobs they perform in front of these services will be done in a much faster and more efficient way. Also, a set of some socio-economic data in one place can certainly contribute to better planning and analyses that will eventually give birth to some new policies in the area. The same situation is when it comes to the Ministers' Food Safety Act, you aim at what is probably the most important, which is the health of the nation, and it is certainly a law to support it, since it covers that whole chain, starting with the food producers, primary agricultural production, processing industry, trade, storage and ultimately retailing. Now in the last two days we have heard a lot about tourism data in the Republic of Serbia and what is the fact that in 2018 it will remain remembered as a year with a record foreign exchange inflow when it comes to tourism revenues. The revenues are somewhere at $1.5 billion, which is an increase of 15% compared to 2017. What is important for citizens to know is something that is two years ahead of the plan outlined in the strategy and development of tourism. It is also the same situation when it comes to the number of tourists in the Republic of Serbia in 2018, the number of tourists is about three and a half million, but what is more important is that the number of foreign tourists is significantly increasing especially when it comes to Chinese citizens. And there are comparisons for 2016, the number of tourists in the Republic of Serbia was around 2.7 million, and two years later 800,000 tourists more. This is not by itself the figures and data that have been given to God and which have come from themselves, they are the result of serious planning, work and policy, starting with the president of the state, government, and most local self-government. It is clear that when one of the tourists, especially when it comes to foreign tourists, chooses a destination factor that determines the choice of destination, especially security and political stability in the country as well as in the region. It seems to me that current President Aleksandar Vukic is one of the most responsible in terms of security and political stability, which contributes to the choice of this destination, because it is a policy that he has promoted since the beginning of 2014. When we talk about this segment of Chinese tourists and increasing the number of Chinese tourists in the Republic of Serbia, it should also be noted that the government has abolished visas for citizens in early 2017. The growth of these tourists is precisely due to the decision of 2017. Good relations between the presidents of Serbia and the government with the Chinese leadership should also be added. Unfortunately, however, there are other things in Serbia. There are people in Serbia who bring guests from abroad and promote those people who come from abroad with completely different intentions. The intentions, we see in recent days, are a devastating march on Belgrade, because we have all had the opportunity to see how these uninvited guests from Sarajevo, Zagreb, Podgorica, so very often from Tirana, participate in the unfavorable scenes in Belgrade, not only participated in the so-called civil protest, participated in the settlement, attacking workers of Serbian public services, especially city cleanliness workers in Belgrade. It is the offer of Djilas, Jeremic, and this unfortunate Obradovic, and similar to them, which is contrary to what the government is doing when it comes to this data that we have all presented in these past two days. I sincerely hope and I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see what they are about and that these uninvited guests and their tourists will find their destination at the end of some of the detention units in the Republic of Serbia, because I guess that makes sense. I'm sure our citizens who participate in something similar in the region just ended up there. Also, we will continue to work together with the Government, the President of the State and the Local Self-Government to improve the conditions when it comes to the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia, here we are doing this in the last days, and on Palic, where the Mayor of Subotica, the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia participate in the construction of the Aqua Park worth nine million dinars, which will undoubtedly contribute to the development of tourism in northern Serbia, and I am sure that in this business as well as so far the people will be our ally, and on the other hand, respected ministers, we will be your allies when it comes to these and similar federal proposals that come into this respected home and are aimed to improve the quality of life of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52019	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52020	Thank you. The chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say the following. We must keep in mind that so-called. The Alliance for Serbia wants to win in the street, radicalise protests and boost insults and threats. There is a constant pressure on peace, and it takes great wisdom to preserve it, which is what we need most at this point. While others try to crash, our president visits Serbia to see how people live and hear what they think. Our government, too, is working hard and cannot correct what has been left for us. Today I'm going to discuss amending the Food Safety Act. The issue of food quality and safety is very important and today's consumer gives more attention to the quality and security of the intentions it consumes. It is therefore in the best interest of the food industry to take and apply all necessary measures to ensure the health and quality of the product. With this change of the Food Safety Act, the Ministry of Agriculture in Co-operation, of course, and with other ministries, a multidisciplinary approach is needed, adequately involved in the care of the health and safety of our citizens, in the food security, quality and safety system, control of the food industry and other direct and indirect participants in the food chain. The consumer, i.e. the consumer, trust in the quality and safety of food is based on information from the manufacturer, but primarily from the state and institutions responsible for guaranteeing food safety. The agriculture ministry and the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce organised public debates, as the minister also noted in the opening exhibition, where producers were included, as well as importers, to first-hand inform about the problems encountered and related to food quality and safety, and are very current, especially in the last ten years. Trend is in the desires of consumers towards food that is fresh, which is healthy, which is based on natural raw materials, without preservatives, without negative, without food high fat, high levels of sugar and salt. The perception is that consumers want intentions that not only cause some damage, but that are healthy and relieve the symptoms of the disease. Dear Minister Nedimovic, great progress has been seen indeed in the Ministry of Agriculture since you were at the helm. I'll make a suggestion. In my view, the State should control the content of public procurement for products containing preservatives on the list identified as harmful. For example, some kindergartens discuss purchases for certain fruit yogurts, ready puddings containing E-407. Whether parents will buy, that's their business, but the question is what the state can control in these public procurements for our youngest citizens. The second proposal refers to the transmast. We're reading more and more about the harmfulness of the transmast. So I suggest that labels be clearly indicated in a large font, so that everyone can read what these products contain, because of the many written characteristics we essentially do not see the essence. Significant efforts are also being made on both global and regional terms, in their initiatives in terms of research and standardisation to improve food safety standards. In addition, many examples are serious food safety failures that occur even in the most organized societies. Therefore, it is very important to control imports in the part of the allowable preservative, sweetener, taste enhancers and other products, because if something is not good for children from the EU, it is not good for our children either. The ban on certain listed additions to products that extend or increase the taste in the EU is not accidental. It is based on certain studies, and therefore I absolutely believe that their standards should be applied in Serbia, because this is how we strive to be in order and according to the standard of being like them. I'd like to add something about plant protection. The phytosanitary inspection has a very delicate task to be continued, which is control of pesticide carence in fruits and vegetables. If we buy the product at the market, are we sure that the pesticide karenca expired and that the manufacturer followed the directions when spraying. Therefore, it is very important to have continuous education on the ground by agricultural services, where the Ministry of Agriculture is working and perhaps to consider changing the way in which dangerous pesticides are bought, whether they go through the system, as prescriptions in health function, that is, that the quantity of possible purchase is determined on the basis of the size of the plantation itself. There is no GMO food in Serbia, which is really great, but it's not everywhere in the world. Therefore, it is very important to ask, in my opinion, a special confirmation from a foreign exporter that there is no GMO in the product itself. It is the only way that if further analyses establish its existence that we can obtain them in an international court of justice. The most important thing in each law is the control and the clear consequences that follow as a result of non-compliance with the conditions or violations of the law, especially in the area of food safety. The constant measurement of additives, components and other regulators is a constant task of inspection, but also of transparent monthly or quarterly publication of the situation on the ground, whether it is a large or small producer. So much for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52021	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52022	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, as I come from Kruševac, and Kruševac with the environment represents a city that has great tourist potentials, I would first and foremost refer to the Tourism Law, which aims to improve and coordinate the work of actors, both national and regional and local levels and the private sector in tourism. The town of Kruševac, as I said, is rich in numerous cultural and historical sights and immeasurable natural beauty. Thanks to rich historical tradition and with the help of various activities, such as fairs, festivals, promotions, and then the discovery of significant historical monuments, it enriches its tourist offer year after year. By the way, all of this attracts both domestic and foreign tourists, and in addition to that, it also says that the residence tax in 2018 is 60% higher than the previous year. In addition to the Ribarska Banje, as tourism queens, the town of Kruševac enriches the tourist offer of the Jasrabac mountain. I must stress that the Dossmanian government in the period until it ruled until that year 2012 not only destroyed the economy of the Rasin County, unfortunately destroyed and destroyed this mountain, the Yasrabac Mountain, which was the favorite resort for all tourists not only from Serbia but also from the surrounding countries, but responsible authorities headed by the SNS, both in the Republic and in the local environments, are trying to recover everything that the yellows have destroyed. I also have to add that these dosmanias, which were ruled by 2012, are now through some alliances, imposing and trying to present themselves as some civil protests and others, and the very fact that in my town at a recent protest, where there are 50 participants, was said by the former mayor's daughter, the mayor who ruled from 2000 to 2004, and how does this apolitical, allegedly speaking at these protests? But the citizens recognized Alexander Vukic's policy, they knew the politics of all our advances, and they also read the policy of these alleged Protestants "1 out of 5 million", and I would add, one of the five millionaires. We continue to work and to build and improve our Serbia, so I must note that the Ministry of Tourism has allocated funds to the town of Kruševec for the construction of the Adventure Park on Jastrepac, which is largely built and worth about 37.7 million, 25 of which are from the ministry, and the rest will be managed by the town of Kruševac. It will be a really nice park that will attract new tourists and indeed be an attraction in this part of Serbia. Like I said, they destroyed everything, and now they'd allegedly come back and devastate this cash register that our president and our government have managed to put on stable feet. Otherwise, I would add that in my town, not only was it done on these activities that I mentioned, it was also done at Bagdal Park, which was before, only through the project was it mentioned, and now it's really a wonderful oasis for rest, recreation and socializing. The reconstruction of the town of Lazarev is also invested, so the session of the City Assembly was also adopted at the end of the previous year and a five-year plan for the development of the tourism of the town of Kruševec from 2019 to 2024, where it will work not only on the development of Jastrepac, but also on Ribarska Banje as a spa and the development of infrastructure in that part. Then, as I mentioned in Lazarev's town, Bagdal and Liberation with all infrastructure and sports infrastructure, as well as the Rasina bathhouse with over 180 projects where there will really be something to be proud of. What I would add is that all of these activities and all of these projects are proven and that password means that nothing is good enough for Kruševac if it's not good enough and I will add that we will continue to work for the benefit of all citizens and for the benefit of all, that is our policy. I would add that just now the citizens of Kruševac and Rasinski County have confirmed once again that they unreservedly support Mr. Aleksandr Vukic's policy and at a recent rally of support for President Vukic, "The future of Serbia" showed an exceptional presence to believe in this policy and to give unreserved support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52023	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Alexander Markovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52024	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, distinguished ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are very important points of today's agenda, important draft laws, proposals for a number of benefits for both the citizens of Serbia and the economy that we have heard a lot about so far, both from government representatives and from authorised representatives of parliamentary groups and from the MPs. Unfortunately, we have again been denied the debate with some colleagues who do not want to attend the National Assembly sessions. They say they boycott parliament's work even though they regularly charge travel expenses and all other contributions in this regard, which is at least hypocritical. They're developing some kind of transparency, they're performing some kind of performance here in front of the Assembly, they're talking all kinds of nebuloses at their press conferences here in the National Assembly hall of whatever comes to mind, as if citizens were choosing them to walk around here. The citizens chose them to represent their interests right here in the National Assembly Hall, but that's their problem of explaining to voters that they're not coming to their jobs, that they're not doing their job for which they're being elected, for which they're getting paid, not so little pay. However, what is a much more serious problem here? The fact that they talk at these press conferences is news. They get together, they hold a press conference, they get crazy, and it becomes the news in the media, the big news. It is on these unfree media, precisely on those oppressed media, on those same media that they say are under the control of the authorities. On almost all the media yesterday but today you could read and see how so-called. "the opposition" boycotts parliament's work. Almost no mention of the start of the regular spring session of the National Assembly. Almost nothing about what is on today’s agenda of the National Assembly, which is the laws on the agenda, almost nothing about what a member of the ruling coalition has said, and everywhere you could see their picture of some kind of transparency that they had developed. I now expect, in particular, that in the coming days, a detailed report on the dimensions of this transparency, of what kind of material this transparency is made of, what is the length, what is the breadth, what is the breakfast of Bosko Obradović, what is the lunch of Dragan Djilas. That's the media darkness, that's the destruction of media freedoms, that's the dictatorship they keep talking about. RTS, RTS is a special case. In the 23rd minute of yesterday's journal, they contribute to the regular spring session of the National Assembly and, of course, it is again the main news that individual representatives of the opposition boycott parliament's work, it is the main news for them and we have a transparent one again. The main news is that MPs who have the support of citizens who are measured in prominences, not in percentages, but in prominences, that they boycotted parliament. Who cares? Who cares what Bosko Obradovic has to say, who is interested in Serbia whether Bosko Obradovic boycotts parliament or does not boycott parliament? He doesn't even have a bigger family vote for him. Here's an example of a classic media spin in one of the tabloids that supports the Alliance for Serbia, he says, "Today" is on the cover of "The debate in Serbia has been suffocated". Classic media spin. Who choked, what debate? Who's suffocating who? You're running away from the debate. They ran away from the debate today. Every day they run away from the debate. So it's a classic replacement thesis in which those who destroyed this country, those who robbed this country, brutally robbed it, filled their pockets, now they want to return to power. Now, they know they can't do it in the election, and that's why they're making up some boycotts, some kind of protest, they want to go back to the street at all costs, except it won't come after your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52025	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52026	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of several legislative proposals on the agenda of today's session, my experiment will be focused on the proposal for a tourism law- As is known, tourism is considered a global economic phenomenon and a business branch that contributes most to the economic growth and development of the world economy after the oil and chemical industry. Tourism through its economic functions affects almost all branches of the national economy and thus creates a multiplier of growth. The tourism sector shows constant growth in the world frameworks, and it is predicted that such a trend can continue in the coming period, and in this context our country can find its place on the tourist map, but therefore it must be adequately prepared. So far, the government of the Republic of Serbia's activities in this area have produced a number of positive effects, with particular consideration being that the foreign exchange inflow from tourism in 2018 amounted to about $1.5 billion and that this result was achieved two years earlier than planned in the tourism development strategy 2016. – 2025, and Serbia is sixth in Europe when it comes to tourist visits, which is a great result. The plans for this year are even more optimistic, forecasting 3.6 to 3.7 million tourists, of which two million foreign tourists, but for the realization of these plans, Serbia must monitor modern trends in tourism, habits of tourists on a global scale and move forward with these habits. Modern tourism is experiencing important quantitative and qualitative changes that are primarily manifested in the dynamic growth of tourism transport, the globalisation of the market, the creation of new and more flexible production and consumption of services related to tourist movements. These changes impose the need and the creation of a new legislative framework, namely the adoption of a modern European law, which stimulates those who invest in tourism, and on the other hand sanctions those entities in tourism that do not work adequately. The area has so far been regulated by the basic law of 2009, with amendments and additions from 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2015, which treated both the tourism area and the area of hospitality. However, such a legal solution was not in line with EU legislation, nor with the degree of progress of tourism and hospitality, which produced the need for this area to be regulated by two separate laws, the Law on Tourism and the Law on Hostage. Experiences from the current application of tourism law have shown insufficient coordination of all public and private sector actors in tourism, reflecting negatively on the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia as a tourist destination. Also, the high degree of gray economy, especially in the part of organising tourism travel, is one of the major problems, as well as the problem of insufficient protection of travellers in the tourism area. All identified and other problems that have followed the current law have largely been removed by the proposed law, which primarily refers to compliance with EU legislation, i.e. EU Directive No 2302 of 2015, relating to organised travel and tourist arrangements, which brings full implementation of the directive into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to the improvement and coordination of the work of all public and private sector actors in tourism, in order to achieve this primary task, the exercise of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of tourism organisations at all levels, which will result in a transparent provision of services, a reduction of abuse of abuses in tourism, as well as the improvement of security and quality in the realisation of travel, to combating the grey economy in all the activities of the law and in this context, and in particular the context of the provision of services, the reduction of abuse of abuse of the abuse of the use of tourism and the necessary resources, in order to ensure that the need to ensure that the need of the need of security, in order to ensure that the need to be adopted by means of security, in order to ensure that the need to be adopted by means of security, and the need of security, in order to achieve, in order to achieve the need of security, in order of security, in order to address of security, and in order to address of security, and in order to ensure the need of security, in order to achieve, and to be, and to be, and to be, and to be able, in order to be able, in order to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to understand, in the right in the right, in the right, in the right in the right The positive effects of the proposed law will directly reflect on a number of industries such as traffic, trade, catering, and, indirectly, agriculture, industry, construction, energy, which will reflect an increase in the creation of additional value, as well as increasing the number of jobs and employment. Finally, let me point to the potential, current problems and perspectives of the development of tourism in the middle of which I come from, and that is the municipality of Srpce, where the backbone of economic development is tourism and in which the famous ski centre of Brezovica, located on the northwestern side of the Sar-Mountain. Climate conditions, the length of the snow cover from November to May, as well as the length, a suitable slope and the height differences of individual paths are among the most famous centres of Alpine skiing in Europe. The ski resort is located at 2500m above sea level, the capacity of 10,000 skiers per hour. The trails are arranged for all Alpine disciplines, and their average length is about 3,000m. Shara is rich in more ice lakes, numerous mountain streams and rivers, as well as extraordinary opportunities for hunting, because there are habitats of giants, bears, lynxes and bricks. The Brezovica Ski Centre is only 60km from two airports in Pristina and Skopje and is highly Alpine in nature and a high mountain ambience reminds it of the most famous European tourist centres. Taking into account the above characteristics, more than 100,000 overnight stays in all the Brezovica ski centres were achieved annually until 1999. Unfortunately, the finding of opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija after the war and the arrival of international forces has been negatively manifested for further development of tourism. Tourist facilities and infrastructure have become a constant target of Pristina's provisional authorities and numerous suspected international businesses and consortiums, which, unfortunately, has led to the stagnation of tourism development. Well, however, by enormous engagement of leadership and employees, often leading to prosecutions from temporary institutions from Pristina, all vital capacities of this tourist complex have been preserved. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia's Ski resorts have recognised such efforts, despite limited opportunities, found ways to help the ski centre extract more than 25 million dinars to prepare this year's season, which includes a remont of cableways, as well as the training of hotel accommodation, which in a concrete way enables direct existence for more than 200 employees and their families, and indirectly for several hundred more families. I am taking the opportunity to express my gratitude to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the attention and assistance it gives to this tourist centre, and I hope that such a trend will continue in the coming period, which will be a great boost for both the employees and the entire Serbian people in their efforts to achieve an essential goal, which is staying in those areas. As far as the law itself is concerned, the proposed solutions and the positive effects that will arise from its application are sufficient reason for the SNS parliamentary group to support the same and all others in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52027	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52028	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, I will discuss in my presentation the proposals of tourism and hospitality laws. Serbia is a country rich in natural resources, so in every sense it represents a great tourist potential. We have mountains, rivers, lakes, national parks, we have more than a thousand hot and cold banana waters and favourable climate conditions suitable for the development of climate-bain tourism. We are the richest of medieval churches and monasteries and have a great cultural and historical heritage. Until recently, we were almost unknown in the world. But today it's very different. The fact is that tourism in our country is developing intensively only in the last few years and that this segment of the economy is being given more and more attention and is putting a lot of effort and work into development. In the Republic of Serbia, in November 2018, the number of tourist arrivals increased by 15.3% compared to November 2017, of which the number of nights of domestic tourists increased by 10.5% and the number of overnight stays of foreign tourists increased by 17.3%. In December 2018, the number of foreign tourists' overnight stays increased by 10.5% compared to December 2017. In 2018, 1.5 billion dollars of net foreign exchange inflows were achieved from tourism, with a $1.7 billion target for this year. In the last five years, the number of tourists has increased by 55% and the number of foreign guests by as much as 65%. The share of vouchers has multiple significance for the development of domestic tourism. The number of facilities available to citizens has increased by as much as 49% and has increased steadily. In less than two months this year, 38,886 citizens applied for a voucher, which is 3.5 times more than in the same period in 2018. All of these are indicators that thanks to the government's policy, led by President Vukic, Serbia is moving forward, has become recognizable in the world, safe and acceptable to foreign investment. That is why it is necessary to continue to build up roads, revive rural environments and develop ecosystems. It is therefore important to take advantage of every possibility for the economic and social development of the entire society and to raise the standard of living of citizens. I believe that the proposed additions to these laws are very important, above all in curbing the gray economy and illegal work, then, the introduction of a central electronic information system that contains all the necessary information about service providers and accommodation facilities. So, in addition to harmonising with EU regulations, these amendments to the law are re-distributed to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of tourism organisations, all in order to improve the quality of the provision of tourist services and consumer protection, i.e. the users of services. It is precisely in line with these laws that the food safety law complements, because here it sees the possibility of developing organic food production, which can be another extremely important item for us to be recognizable in the world. It's up to us to continue with our plans and to work even more, not to pay attention to the unemployed and the thieves who try to distract us every day and slow us down, the ones who haven't done much good for their country. I wish you success in your work, and in voting day, the SNS will vote for all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52029	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're back to work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52031	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we face today a number of draft laws, and what is a SNS policy is that in the focus of its policy protection of the best interest of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, its better standard of living, more jobs, better salaries and pensions, applicable laws and functional states. It is precisely for all proposed SNS laws that will vote because they are in the interest of better and more efficient public administrations, faster and easier to exercise the rights of each citizen of the Republic of Serbia and are in the interest of economic progress and the development of the state. First of all, I want to point out that agriculture and tourism are both important industries and that agriculture and tourism and how they affect our country's economic development and how they affect GDP growth. What I want to point out is that, since 2012, this government has been investing more and more in agriculture and never more investment in agriculture than it has been since 2012, precisely recognising agriculture as a very significant development potential and a very significant economic momentum of our society. What I would also like to point out is that, as far as the Central Register of Population is concerned, it is also significant, first of all, from the point of view of the ordinary citizen for the reason that citizens in the exercise of their rights, and especially when it comes to administrative procedures, they will no longer have to go from counter to counter, but the state authorities will do so for him. Since 2012 and so far it has been done on digitisation, and electronic administration is one of the very important pillars against corruption in our country, and SNS's policy is to bring corruption down to a zero level. What is from the point of view of citizens and how important this is that it will in a quick, effective way exercise its rights. What is important from the point of view of officials, who work in the public authorities and who work in these administrative procedures, is that they will come to the documentation, the fact that they are important for their decision-making will come under pressure on one click, which automatically means that economicity in the work of civil servants, who work in government bodies, and how they will be increased, and of course in favour of those, or citizens who want to exercise one's right. The central population register is also important in terms of those most vulnerable and vulnerable people living in Serbia, and these are, above all, all refugees and displaced persons from the area of all former SFRY republics, refugees, asylum seekers, and find other particularly sensitive and particularly vulnerable persons. What is particularly important in this law and what is certainly in the interest of creating adequate public policies in the medium and perhaps long term is that for the first time data in the Central Register of Population will be able to use other policies, which are policies dealing with demographics, population policy, education, health care. What does that mean? That, on the basis of reliable and valid data from the Central Register, it will be possible, for example, to plan to build an infrastructure project, such as kindergarten or school in some local self-government. What I also want to point out, and it does not refer to the Central Population Register, is to confirm the law on the Constitution of the International Civil Protection Organisation, which is normally in the jurisdiction of the MUP. Why do I want to put an accent on this constitution? This constitution was normally adopted in 1966 and entered into force on 1 March 1972. One of the conditions to join the International Civil Protection Organisation is certainly the acceptance of this Constitution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In 2012, this is the year until which the yellow tycoon enterprise ruled in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from local self-government to the top of the state, there was not a single unit of civil protection. If we know that the units of civil protection, that their primary purpose is to rescue and assist the population in elemental disasters, during floods, fires, floods, floods, glids, glids and other elemental disasters, then we understand how much this yellow tycoon enterprise, in Dragan Gilas, cared about saving and providing the population during the elemental disasters. They were not interested in anything but in their own profits, and Gilas earned a profit of 500m euros during his rule. In 2014, when catastrophic floods occurred, which were the largest in the last 120 years, there were no boats, there were not even those pipes that would suck water where water flooded the areas and where the population was threatened, so that only with the huge help of the military, the police, the citizens and the government at all prevented much greater consequences than they could have. Thus, except that they had evicted 400,000 workers on the street, except that they had been kidnapped and sold out by their companies, this yellow tycoon-tycoon Ljotić company, decorated today in some alliance with the people, in fact, it was an alliance against the people, did not worry or take any measures on civil protection of the endangered population. In contrast, from 2012 to 2018 and how the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the Emergency Sector, worked to improve both human and material capacities. I must point out that in the last year alone, 157 lifeguard firefighters were admitted, that 200 more lifeguards were scheduled for this year, that a complete working uniform was purchased, that the purchase of a protective uniform was planned for this year, that 14 new fire trucks were purchased last year, that by the end of next year the purchase of 106 new vehicles for the Emergency Sector was planned. In this way, the responsible government is taking care of the protection and rescue of the population if there are extreme situations. In addition, within the legislative framework, the interior ministry, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, has done much. I must also point out that in 2014, when there was a flood, no local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia had a risk assessment plan and a population rescue plan approved by the Ministry of the Interior. So much for their concern for the people and for the most endangered. One of their actors at their performances and walks in Belgrade and other parts says – The people have no contact with the people. What is certain is that the yellow tycoon company, in collaboration with the Ljotics, really have no contact with the people, but they seem to have no contact with their own brains either. Serbia is a decent country, decent and hardworking people. They recognise who is responsible for the country's policy and who really cares about every job, every place in Serbia, every factory and every citizen of Serbia -- that is Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party's policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52032	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52033	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, today I will especially talk about the new Tourism Law, which is normal, as I come from the famous tourist destination Soko Banja. All that we heard today, if Serbia had achieved results in tourism, it would certainly not have been if our President Aleksandar Vukic and this government had not achieved four years of consecutive surplus in the budget, that the unemployment rate was not 11%, and not as it was in the time of the yellow tycoon company 26%, that our President Aleksandar Vukic managed to get foreign direct investments worth three billion euros in our country. And it is normal that, after all these positive results as far as the economy is concerned, tourism is developing. However, it is important to note that both political security and stability of a country are very important for the development of tourism, especially in the last few years our president has worked on. In addition to the good results we heard of the previous year achieved in tourism, I can say that this trend continues in this year, given that in January 2019, from January 2018, 0.6% of overnight stays in Serbia and a higher number of guests were recorded by 0.3%. Also, in January 2019, compared to January 2018, the number of overnight stays of domestic tourists is less by 3.5%, while the number of overnight stays of foreign tourists is higher by 6%. I would especially like to talk today about my local self-government, Soko Banja, who in 2018 actually made a tourist boom in Serbia. In 2018, it increased the number of tourists' arrivals by 86%, 90% more overnight than in 2017, five times more foreign guests visited Soko Banja. However, what is best known for the past year, Soko Banja, is that for 2018 she had the longest average of her stay in the spa, which was five nights. All this says that the local self-government of SNS, which came in 2016, worked hard and that the results in two, two and a half years already showed up. It is also necessary to point out today what the yellow company, which ruled until 2016, has done for Soko Banja. In 2008, they renovated the cinema. It's the only institution where cultural events are held. From 2008 to 2010, the building looked worse than it was before 2008 and was out of use. This year, in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, we launched the process of renovating and putting the building as a multipractical building, i.e. presenting the cultural center Soko Banja, so that during the winter period Soko Banja can offer some cultural events to its guests. Furthermore, they ruined a 57-year event -- Serbia's first harmonica, which also made Soko Banja the most recognizable in the former SFRY, because they had nowhere else to organise the event, so that from a year and a half ago Soko Banja invests, along with the Ministry of Tourism, a million and 290m euros in construction of the largest, not only in Serbia, but also in the Balkans, the summer stage, which will be used for other purposes, and not just for concerts. It is also very important to point out that precisely our current president and then, at that time, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic introduced vouchers that certainly improved Serbia's population standard and thus allowed those who are not able to allocate enough resources for a certain holiday or vacation. Soko Banja is the best known right now because almost 300 service providers can receive their guests thanks to the voucher. For these purposes, the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 500 million dinars and has already sold out almost 40,000 vouchers for this year. I'm saying this because Soko Banja in the last 40 years didn't get any new hotels, and those hotels we had, the yellow company managed to close them down, or to spend them in bankruptcy, and today, here, this is a picture of Soko Banja being a construction site where new hotels are made and where they are invested in infrastructure. Also, in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, my local self-government has launched a process of co-operation, which covers nearly a thousand hectares and refers to a move from Lake Bovan to the entrance to Soko Banja. The local self-government will also implement about ten kilometers of regulation of the Moravica River, and we will also take advantage of this opportunity to plan and build a cycling trail that would certainly complement this tourist offer to guests. This is just the beginning of our construction and addition of the Soccommodation. One host and responsible behavior can further improve Sokobanju and I sincerely hope, while this authority and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, that we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52034	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52035	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a set of draft laws on the agenda today is the result of the work of the responsible policy carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and is definitely here to improve the quality of life of all our citizens. When it comes to the proposal for a law in the domain of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is important to point out that such a proposal has been established in line with public administration reform on the way to the EU and the aim is to speed up employee communication, reduce unnecessary documentation, reduce and unnecessary administration, reduce information transfer costs, and on the other hand we have transparency and efficiency in work. The elements of such action are also recognised in the proposals for laws that define the area of tourism and hospitality. The bill's proposals are the result of an analysis of the situation in the tourist market and of a view of the problems in the tourism economy, with a special emphasis on reducing the grey economy in this area, as well as a special accent on the protection of service users. Modernization is also recorded here. Certainly, given the priorities of digitising the economy of the Republic of Serbia, but also further development of the electronic administration, solutions have been proposed to help improve co-operation and exchange of data between competent state institutions. In the area of agriculture, excellent results are also recorded. We have this year's budget so formed that there will be plenty of money for both livestock and subsidies and more money for insurance. Also, the legislative solutions on the agenda today should contribute to the preservation of human health, improving the quality of land, water and food. Basically, the bill proposals we are talking about, as well as the digitisation and modernisation of society and economy, are generally a great opportunity for competitiveness and such a policy we will record rapid and safe growth and will allow for further increases and wages and pensions, which certainly contributes to improving the quality of life. Such an ambience in Serbia has created a responsible policy for Alexander Vukic, first at the post of Prime Minister, and today as president of the state, it is also talking about this and that Serbia has become a leader in the region and by attracting foreign investment. Decision makers, those to whom citizens have shown confidence in the elections, through intensive work in the previous period, but through today's intensive work, absolutely make solutions first for the recovery and progress of our country. Many relevant institutions and worldly records of our country's growth and progress on lists from various areas. We are on a good path safely, despite attempts by the former regime to regain the authorities of those who would do anything but sell what is worth in Serbia and who would record growth only in their personal accounts. President Aleksandar Vucic will tour Serbia's districts in the previous period. These tours talk about the results of work and further plans, because we can plan in Serbia today when we have stable finances, when we record stable finances and growth for the previous four years, when we have surpluses in the budget. This has been contributed by the responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic and SNS, and citizens see, feel and support such a policy. They provide unequivocal support in the elections and free will of citizens will not allow those who, by violence and protests on the street, who acted so until 2012, want to implement a policy of debt, problems, closed jobs, factories, construction infrastructure. Basically, in the end, the SNS will certainly support all draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52036	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from a colleague named Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52037	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end of the debate, I would like to point out once again that the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft laws on today's agenda, and that we are giving full support to further modernisation of the state, further development of the economy and further development of all the resources that our country has. Thanks to one serious and responsible relationship between Alexander Vukic and SNS, our country has managed to stabilise its finances over the past period. Thanks to the reforms and savings that have been implemented, we today can boast that our budget for the fourth year in a row is recording the surplus, and now we are in a position to take a completely different relationship with our potentials. One truly serious and responsible relationship, one long-term plan that will positively reflect our economy and the quality of life of all our citizens. Serbia no longer has time to waste, we have to catch up with the world and make up for lost time, because we have lost too much thanks to our political predecessors who have only closed jobs, just devastated and destroyed, in their care we have led the country to bankruptcy. We are proud of our relationship to our potentials, we are proud of our relationship to our future and the support of the citizens of SNS policy unequivocally shows that we are on the right track. The perspective that opens through investment and job creation is the government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy and is the result of a hard and dedicated work both by Alexander Vukic and SNS. The country's serious relationship is also seen through long-term plans, through incentives that occur through the Ministry of Agriculture and through all other ministries. I would like to remind you that our agricultural producers were able to apply for funds during 2018, i.e. to recover money for the purchase of tractors, machinery and equipment of between 50% and 70%, and that this year the fund has increased to 70m euros. Also agreed exports of beef to Turkey without customs duties and that quota agreed by 5,000 tonnes has been exceeded and new negotiations are such that this amount is increasing and we expect Serbia alone to grow from 25m euros to 35m euros in this area alone. The export of wheat to Egypt is also agreed, it is a serious attitude of the state towards the expansion of the market and the provision of placements for all our agricultural producers. Negotiations are under way to arrange such exports for corn, for sunflower, for beef, so we want to think responsibly and to ensure the future for our agriculture. I would like to remind you that in 2018 it was the year in which the reference national milk testing laboratory was established to control the quality, hygiene of milk, to establish prices, but also to assist in the selection of livestock. It should be noted that the Ministry of Agriculture has also provided fuel subsidies for our agricultural producers who are very easy to achieve and pay very quickly to our producers. The state has a serious attitude towards investing in agriculture through investment in irrigation systems, through investment in field electricity, to make our agriculture more resistant to climate change and also in the coming days of the first 28 anti-urban automatic cells will be activated, than planned 99, systems. What we need and what the accent will be on in the next period is the processing of agricultural products, in order to achieve as high a price as possible. So, one responsible, serious approach, one long-term plan to be explored in all areas. We have also succeeded, thanks to this policy, to achieve significant results and shifts in tourism, first investing in our potentials that have been destroyed and devastated for years. We are now investing in all those attractive destinations that tourists attract, investing in the construction of motels, in our spas, in mountain centres, investing in sports facilities to attract as many tourists as possible, and it turns out that the government of Serbia's strategy regarding the allocation of vouchers has also yielded significant results and our tourist potential is being achieved from year to year and significant funds are being poured into our budget. I underline once again, it's one responsible and dedicated work, setting priorities, savings that have been achieved and a good deployment of plans. At the end of this debate, in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will give absolute support to the laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52038	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52039	Thank you. (The MP before the speech, playing the tape on the phone, from the protest. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days this has been plowed in front of the Serbian Parliament: "Croatia, Serbia Revolution". Since Bosko Obradović, in a people known as Bosko Ljotic, swore his oath to Đilas, Pernar, Katarina, the Workers' Front, Omer, Our Party-Tuzla, since Bosko Ljotic swore to Muhamed Cengic, whom Vuk Jeremic promised 300 billion war damages, since they all swore to Sulejman Sulja Ugljanin the other day, it has been here calling for a revolution, for a violent change of power – Croatia, Serbia, revolution. As they say, Bosko Ljotic's comrades, if they swear they are Kosorka, as they say we are not servants of Brussels. So Croatia will take EU funds, agricultural funds will benefit, and Serbia recommends a revolution. Do we still have to, while they're burning Pupavec, a doll with his character, throwing Serbian athletes into the sea, with clear messages, those who have expelled 400,000 Serbs, and talking about some ethnic cleansing, do we have to do it again while they're doing it on the other side of the Drina, do we have to do it again like 1941 to revolutionize ourselves and score our own auto goal? Croatia from Brussels, which our farmers need to hear, gets over a billion euros, only for rural development, although it has three times less land than Serbia, arable, gets 330m euros, for a second measure only, is the first measure per hectare where they receive over 800m euros, all together over a billion, plus fishing. So small agricultural holdings receive 15,000 euros, per hectare from 300 to 800 euros. Young farmers get 50,000 euros, warehouses pay 100,000 euros and more, fruit farmers recover for their needs, for their facilities and up to 600,000 euros, and farmers who deal with renewable energy and up to a million euros. So, those who receive millions of amounts from Brussels, as they say from Brussels, (accounts at i), which here together with Bosca Ljotic in favour of Dragan Gilas wants to raise the revolution, they receive substantial amounts. Viewed by a hectare, their subsidies are seven times bigger because they come from Brussels, which allocates billions and billions of euros for that money, and we only get 184m euros from pre-accession funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says everyone has the right to live, to freedom and the right to security. Do these freedoms without the right to healthy food and drinking water mean anything? In my opinion, democratic law and the highest right of citizens should be the right to healthy food and the right to drink water. Serbia had an accident that in the 1990s agriculture was burdened by the economic and military pressures our country had been exposed to. Together with those who were bombed together, we were bombed across the countries of those who, together with Bosko Ljotic, Djilas and Jeremic, are scandald from Zagreb and are scandaling "Serbia, the Croatian Revolution". Let them raise the first revolution in Croatia and we'll see what it looks like. Let them give up these funds from the EU, so let's see what it looks like, so let them come here and look for a revolution. We're the last to trust them. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has suffered these military and economic pressures, but has suffered the greatest damage since the 2000s. The scene was attended by the joint criminal enterprise of Djilas, Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic, Tadic, and the team. It is a joint criminal enterprise against agriculture, but also against the rights of citizens to have healthy food and drinking water, and thus to exercise the rights of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This joint criminal enterprise was created and created by predatory privatization where they, those Latifundi, tycoons, call it what you will, which never did until 2000, were born for small money, and since the 1990s, while we have suffered from smuggling oil, cigarettes, contingents, etc., by creating money, they have fertilized their capital and have reached huge areas of combined land. Then the cooperatives, as our people say. In the privatisation, they also obtained storage facilities and buying-in stations, so they could, apart from the assets they cheaply acquired to control farmers through ransom and control houses in a certain way, blackmail them, on scale, moisture, etc., and rob the part that they didn't put in their pockets. They made highways for folk money that led to their pockets of Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic, who long ago, not for free included Bosko Ljotic, Bosko Obradovic, they later destroyed the farm, left only plant production, plant production for other countries. So we're exporting over 3.5 million hundred grains, which cattle feeds 3.5 million tons, all for other countries' livestock. Farms are destroyed, cattle slaughtered, workers fired. So it was a joint criminal enterprise. Denmark has two times less processed areas than we do, the Netherlands three times and exports of agricultural products from the Netherlands 85 billion euros, as our two GDP total. The export from Denmark is 20 billion euros and some billion euros. The Netherlands is just flowers from plastics and greenhouses exporting eight billion. Denmark only from pigs 22 billion. The Netherlands has 60 sunny days, Serbia has four and a half times as many. Serbia is on the Danube rivers, Savi, Tamisa, Tisi, Moravi, Ibra, etc., but we are free of natural potential when we had a joint criminal enterprise, which made a desert country, a desolate meadow, a chicaru. Instead of developed agriculture, we found a yellow joint criminal enterprise and nothing more. Today, I believe that this law is not for the Holy Scriptures, that we will improve these, because healthy food is a priority, not only in this country, but also in Europe. Soon, ladies and gentlemen, the wealth of a country will not be measured by the amount of gold and diamonds these countries have, but by the amount of food, healthy food and drinking water that this country produces or can produce. Serbia can produce a lot, but a joint criminal enterprise except in agriculture, the catastrophic consequences left in the processing industry, in the production of farm equipment, in the production of mineral fertilisers of fruit seed, etc., in the production of machinery and equipment, so all that needed to be served by agriculture and food industry. They destroyed everything. Serbia is on the way to recovery, but it cannot skip five steps at a time, but it can skip one by one so we don't crash, and the ladders of success are not lift and while Serbia is slowly climbing, and I'm going to say that in 2012, this joint criminal enterprise for agriculture, and these incentives are used by individual agricultural holdings mostly by 19 billion dinars, along with the same course and a larger number of farmers and a larger number of citizens, 19 billion. Today, at this year, we stand out 43 billion. There can't be a session where Alexandra Jerkov doesn't jump in here and say we're robbing the steamers. How someone who singles out 130% more than they singled out and robbed agriculture, and she rightly gave me the right to assess their agricultural policy and economic policy as a joint criminal enterprise. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that our peasant can be better than the European farmer if he is provided with these conditions that he has even the same incentive that a peasant has in the EU and Croatia. That relationship used to be one to seven, we now put it on one to three. So far more favourable are the conditions, but that's not it yet. That is why I believe that the Serbian peasant will do so and that we will produce more and more healthy food, and that until the end, not only will I support these laws, I believe that they will change, advocate for agriculture, and that the Serbian farmer, like the European producer, will be even better, to produce as much food as possible, and that our social product not only in agriculture, but in the food industry, that what the peasants produce in the field, his sons, his daughters, his daughter, is processed in the processing industry as possible, and that the issue of agriculture is also a question of demographics, to stay in the country and stay as much in the country as possible and to be as rich and happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-03-06-0.u52040	I thank my colleague Rističević. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 11 of the agenda. We continue our work on Tuesday 12 March with a start at 10.00 hours. [[The session has been suspended for 15.45 hours.]]
